ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e1549	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you to 97. I very much welcome the meeting of the National Council, which I declare to be open. As an obstacle to today's day of sitting, MEPs are Mag. Chief, Ing. Maderthaner and Murauer. Entry and allocation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e1580	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e1650	Before entering the agenda, I declare that Mr Rosenstingl has requested that the Transport Committee report on the motion for a resolution 97/A (E) on a permanent system of public transport be subject to a period of time until 9. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to In this context, the request for a brief debate on this request for time-limitation is also made in accordance with Article 43 of the Rules of Procedure of five Members. This short debate is scheduled for 3 p.m. The vote on the motion for a deadline will take place immediately after the end of this debate. I would also like to say that Mr Magistrate. Peter requested that the Financial Committee report on the application 546/A concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act and the Corporate Tax Act be limited to a period of five years. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions In this case too, there is a demand for a debate on the deadline request. This debate will be followed by the short debate requested by the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the vote will be taken immediately after the debate. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (841 and 841 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for 1998, including investments (910 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e1682	We are going into the agenda, the subject of which is the Federal Finance Act for 1998. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e1704	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times for the individual political groups arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. Should the speaking time of the competent member of the government exceed 20 minutes, this excess of the respective government group shall be counted. This is the proposal I can make on behalf of the President-in-Office. On the other hand, are there any objections? This is not the case. This proposal has been adopted unanimously. Advisory Group III Chapter 20: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e1740	First of all, we are entering into the negotiations on the advisory group III, Chapter 20: Exterior. I do not have a wish for reporting. Mr Dkfm has spoken. Holger Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e1770	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister! – Mr Dr. Schüssel, we will probably agree that the sense of privatisation is to achieve even more cost-effective performance through greater efficiency or, if possible, even better performance. Are we in agreement, Mr. Foreign Minister? [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel reads documents.]] – Either he doesn’t listen to me or he doesn’t agree with me what I can imagine, but not in this question, because he wrote a book about it. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: A brochure!]] But that's been a long time, and maybe he forgot what he wrote. "Less state, more private" said this brochure, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I was therefore very eager to see how the privatisations look in practice. If you look at the budget of your resort a little more precisely, you can see very clearly how the privatizations à la Wolfgang Schüssel represent by light, based on the position "Diplomatic Academy". High house! The budget expenditure, i.e. what the public has spent on the Diplomatic Academy before its privatisation or dispensation – as you probably want to call it today due to this circumstance – has amounted to about 17 million schilling a year. High house! How much, do you think, Mr. Dr. Schüssel, I hope you will know, are spent on the Diplomatic Academy from the federal budget after the privatization of à la Wolfgang Schüssel? [[Abg. Haigermoser: How much? I'm curious!]] – For the second time about double, namely about 30 million schilling. Dr. Schüssel! Don't be angry with me if I tell you: Grey to black is your theory. I have the feeling in your mind – be sure not to mind – that you not only write things relatively loosely, but also chat relatively loosely in front of you. The last time this happened in the television "press hour" in which you claimed all the serious – that is, of course, a foreign policy issue – – – I quote: People are better protected from inflation and money depreciation with the euro. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I don't know, it was solidarity now, it was the same ignorance or love of half-truth, Mr. Dr. Cuddles that you have just expressed by your clap. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Economic reason!]] Half-truths are so typical for Dr. Schüssel and for the Austrian People's Party. I ask myself again and again – not with you, Mr Kiss, but with Mr Vice-Chancellor: Does he not know better, or does he deliberately say the untruth or, in the specific case, the half-truth? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] The truth is that people in the so-called soft-currency countries with the euro will be better protected from inflation and from the devaluation of money than before – no question, Dr. Schüssel! But it is exactly the opposite in the hard currency countries like Austria. In this case, the exact opposite is the case. The introduction of the euro in these countries will lead to a higher devaluation of money and higher inflation. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Why, Mr. Bauer?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He doesn't understand that!]] - Wait! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You count the inflation rates together and then divide!]] Mr Professor, I believe that you do not understand this. You are, I think, a lawyer or something. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What are you? You're a lawyer?- Oh, my God!]] – What, more economical are you?- Oh, my God! That's terrible. Then put your professorship back, Professor! Professor! It's easy for you once: You know, if you... – No. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: How is a lawyer supposed to understand something about the economy?]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You're a lawyer? State scientists?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, journalist!]] Graduate of Economics, if you want: Graduate of the University of World Trade. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Just no excitement, I know why you are nervous: because you have no idea what this is about, no idea! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Your simple theory makes us nervous!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Therefore, for you quite simply – introduction course; for this reason need You do not attend a university, enough logic alone –: If you – let us put aside the ratio – mix hard currencies and soft currencies into a common currency, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, then this common currency from hard and soft currencies cannot be as hard as the hardest currency. Do you understand? – I was afraid that you did not understand. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: No, that's wrong! Your milkmaid bill is wrong!]] [[Further calls.]] I therefore recommend you if you, together with your Foreign Minister, want to dive deeper into this matter: Read the corresponding brochure of the Economic Research Institute. This is very simple and quite understandable – therefore, I suppose, also understandable to you – even a little more detailed than I can now present it to you because of the speaking time available to me. But you can of course also, Dr. Schüssel, if you do not want to read this thick brochure, hold on to your friend Zeitmeyer, whom you especially appreciate, as we know. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] He said: I am very concerned that the euro will become soft and lavish. - Timemeyer, not Bauer. Whatever you think of him personally, Mr. Vice-Chancellor – I don't know so well; before breakfast and after breakfast it was different – you won't want to agree to the President of the Deutsche Bundesbank on this question. He told you: I'm very worried, it'll be a soft and lavish euro. And what does a soft and lavish euro mean for a hard currency country, Mr. Vice-Chancellor? – Elusive purchasing power loss, logically. I can't explain now in all the width here why this is so, but the link between soft currency, inflation, purchasing power loss will be common, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, it was also a typical half-truth, a typical "cushion-sacker" at this "press hour" when you said that the value of savings would certainly not be affected by the change from schilling to the euro. – Half-truth, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! On the day of the changeover, the value will not be affected because I assume that the banks are correctly converting the price set. But, Mr Vice-Chancellor and my esteemed ladies and gentlemen from the Austrian People's Party, look at the purchasing power of savings about a year later. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: In dollars, in yen or in what?]] If you want to know this more precisely, read again in the brochure of the Economic Research Institute; funded and sponsored by the government and your related social partners, not by the liberals. Read it! There stands how high the depreciation, the loss of purchasing power in the process of merging currencies, as it is now planned, will be. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The inner or the outer purchasing power?]] [[Further calls.]] Both inside and outside, Professor! Read this! If you do not believe this, perhaps you will believe it to be a colleague of yours, Professor, Mr Wilhelm Hankel, who is the owner of the Chair of Monetary and Development Policy at the University of Frankfurt. He says: The euro comes into the world as a soft currency. For the savers the devastating effects will have. The depreciation of hard currencies is already in full swing and will continue. . Mr President, this is what the honourable Member says about you, from which I assume he understands at least as much as you do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I will not recommend you, nor will I accept any Council - I understand - but you should before You're chatting, getting a little more information, thinking a little more, because then such things as the "press hour" or your breakfast won't happen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2108	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. Voluntary speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2130	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I ask Mr Holger Bauer that he should not be ignored if I do not go into the many accusations and statements he has made, because I think only one thing is: It has been shown in his speech that the FPÖ is in favour of foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to comment on foreign policy and start with what we are actually discussing today, namely the 1998 budget in the field of foreign policy. Budgetary targets of 4.3 billion schilling are not a large budget. It has neither particularly many employees nor very many financial possibilities, but it has an enormous external effect for Austria, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to put it at the beginning of my remarks. This budget shows that not many additional resources are included in this proposal. The 360 million schilling, which this draft budget has more, is actually reserved for the great task that Austria will have to deal with next year: the Presidency within the European Union. The 300 million schillings, which are planned as a central budget, do not benefit the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but represent only a central budget. They benefit from the wide range of activities that Austria must carry out. Unfortunately, this budget also has a number of cuts – as in every department – that make our contributions to international organisations. That, I would say, is still possible through the critical transparency of what can actually be saved. These cuts, however, account for 8 per cent of the foreign culture, and this is a bit more painful because our cultural institutions, especially in the Eastern and Central European countries, represent a very good business card for Austria and also a very good preparation for our future cooperation with these countries, once they are a member of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore hope that, with the resources still available, we will be able to set priorities. Mr Vice-Chancellor has already pointed out in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that it will be necessary to invest less in institutions, but to be more operational. I would like to fully support him in this project. I believe that the field of foreign culture should remain an essential focus of our foreign policy in Central and Eastern Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Dr Gredler.]] If I look at staff expenditure and the planned increase of only 5.5 per cent, and consider how much more overtime needs to be done, how much more effort will be required for employees during the Austrian Presidency within the next year, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to mention the following, but to emphasize very centrally: We have many employees who are behind thousands of businesses who are behind the many efforts when Austrians, including parliamentarians, go abroad and are truly supported by our diplomats. I would also like to stress at this point how much this work of the diplomatic service, which many employees in the foreign office benefit us all; they are in the service of Austria. I would therefore like to express my particular thanks and my special thanks to these ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should look at the budget for foreign policy in particular with regard to those points which will be central to Austrian foreign policy in 1998. This is, of course, Austria's presidency. I do not think that the content can be specific, because we have the position to represent the European Union, but it will be a special challenge in terms of leadership and mediation. Our representatives will have the task of bringing results to the table, reaching an agreement in all the institutions in the half-year of the Presidency, and the handling of this task will require infinite effort and stamina, but above all a very solid preparation. In this context, I would like to say that the preparatory work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, particularly under the Secretary of State, Ferrero-Waldner, has so far been a truly excellent achievement and we can only very much support it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will also have to make a decision in 1998 on our future security policy. We will also need to discuss an option report in this House. I am very grateful for the fact that Mr Bundeskanzler Klima has recently found a very clear word in Moscow that this is our decision, an Austrian decision alone, and that no others should interfere in our affairs. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then finally make decisions!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am also very grateful for the fact that the Federal Chancellor made it clear from the timetable that the decision will be taken next year. I am confident that, as soon as the option report is in the House, we will be able to start these discussions very quickly in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This will be a decision next year, which will have very far-reaching consequences for Austria's future in security policy. I would like to make a third point where very valuable initiatives by Mr Vice-Chancellor have already been put in place this year. Mr Vice-Chanzler presented an initiative against towing at the General Assembly of the United Nations, an initiative, ladies and gentlemen, which can appear to be particularly important to us through daily reporting and daily events. Especially at the Austrian borders, it is always noted that persons who pay a high price for it are being brought from towers to Austria under what inhuman conditions. They'll be picked up and then sent back. These are events, ladies and gentlemen, against which we must deal with the full power of the Community. That is why an initiative, as presented by Mr Vice-Chancellor at the General Assembly, is, as I believe, a very important initiative for Austria, but also for the State community at all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has been shown that this initiative has fallen on a very fertile ground. There are, as I have heard, a number of questions to which Mr Cede has returned from a special mission to the United Nations. A number of support for this initiative have also been received in Austria. – This is foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, if, as in this case, the focus is also placed in the State community, on which Austria can be proud. I would like to mention a fourth point: the questions relating to the prohibition of anti-personnel mines. It is clear that this year, with the support of the Austrians, in the formulation of this Treaty and in addition with a joint action in the European Union on the initiative in the OSCE, an important step has been taken. More than 100 States are now ready to join this Convention. If a conference will be held in Ottawa next December, where more than 100 states will sign this Convention, this will be a great success for Austria, but above all a success in the service of the matter, because anti-personnel mines are among the most inhumane things in this world! [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. Dr Gredler.]] The next year will require a continuation of this initiative so that we can also win other states, especially those who have not yet agreed to join this agreement. As the last point for the next year, I would like to mention that we should not only deal with the enlargement of the East, but also with an Eastern programme at all. There are also a number of bilateral issues that we should address, or at least an extended one. I call the Investment Protection Agreements, in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to have an essential leadership. I call double taxation agreements, in which, after many years of existence, we may have to renew one or another. I would remind you that the joint committees that exist should be reactivated. I would remind you that we should perhaps provide incentives for Austrian investment abroad. And I also think that we should include an area like the Caucasus in our foreign policy, because this seems to me to be a very interesting space for the future, which can also be an interesting component for our policy in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! You see: a wealth of tasks that we have ahead of us, and I believe that we should not only wish the Foreign Minister and his team in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs luck, but also success in our own interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2211	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2233	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I am pleased that you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have not been represented today and are ready to discuss this budget chapter with us. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] I know this differently from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where you often do not have time to deal with the moving things of Austrian foreign policy, and that is why I would like to thank you very much today, Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I would like to deal with the EU Council Presidency. We opposition parties have very often tried to establish the priorities of the government's work. For a long time it was not possible for us to get an answer at all. That was interesting: One goes into a presidency and refuses to tell the opposition what work priorities one has. Then suddenly came the moment of enlightenment – that was shortly before the summer. At the time, the Federal Chancellor called the work priorities – I tell them all, because that was in an internal circle –: Employment, crime control, enlargement and human rights. Ladies and gentlemen! I will also measure the Austrian Federal Government. Some comments made in recent weeks by people who are not quite distant from these parties on the subject of enlargement: Tumpel, AK President, requires very, very long deadlines. Vergestnicht, ÖGB President: We cannot afford a social disaster. – In connection with enlargement, one speaks of a "social disaster". This must be broken on the tongue. How should a country that is a neighbouring country of Austria feel if the President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation speaks of a "social disaster" in the event of enlargement? They'll thank you! Our position within Europe and our attempt to become an important force in Central Europe and force enlargement to improve our role are being destroyed by such statements! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] But it's still going on. Mr Pröll: At the end of the year, the Federal Republic of Germany was forced to expand rapidly. Mr Stix: Not before 2006 and then five to seven years of transitional period. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is only a reasonable thing they say!]] This means a recording only in the years 2011 to 2013. How does such a country feel that is our neighboring country? How would we feel as a neighbouring country of Germany if Germany had said it would be a disaster if Austria were a member of the European Union? [[Abg. Scheibner: How do our people feel? Think about the Austrians! That's incredible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer]] I would very much ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you speak an open word in this regard and say: These states are not our enemies. We wish for a strong Europe, and this is what our neighbours belong to; even if you are not right, Mr Bauer. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] What do we do for it? . We are talking about the fact that we do not want to leave any more money in Brussels. It is true that we have planned 1.27% of GDP for this. [[Abg. Young: We already leave too much money in Brussels!]] In fact, up to now 1.22 percent has been needed. This gives rise to an open spectrum of ECU 20 billion. - Not very much, Mr Bauer. You will give me the right to be able to do something at ECU 20 billion. What is not discussed is... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Martina, you have to say that Austria will again cost a lot!]] Mr Schweitzer! In order to strengthen the role of Austria within Central Europe, I am prepared to debate how much money Austria should invest in this. [[Abg. Young: You already, but not the majority of Austrians!]] I do not refuse this discussion. I believe that our neighbors should be worth something to us; perhaps unlike you, the liberals. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We should debate how we are making the Cohesion Fund outrageous with the countries of southern Europe concerned. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is negligent!]] I know there are great resistances here, but there can be no such thing as trying to get countries on the move so that there is a constant financial injection towards the south. It is also necessary to make this financial policy successful. In this context, I must say the following to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: Please, inform your MEPs about how the budget is being achieved. Mrs Flemming actually said on Sunday that the European Parliament alone decides 100 percent of the budget. - That's not true. The European Parliament is fighting for this, but it can only take a decision over just over 50 percent of the budget. This budget still lacks the entire agricultural share, and I would ask you to make it more active, that the Austrian Federal Government should say that it agrees that the European Parliament will have these powers, and that it will not be possible to take this step in Amsterdam. I would be very pleased if you would also stress that the agricultural policy, although it has now been transformed for the first time since 1992, is not enough. We cannot afford to spend 47 percent of the European budget only on agricultural services. We need the money for research and trans-European networks. Mr Spindelegger will give me a right in this direction. They have been very committed to the trans-European networks. We need this money for education and also for regional support. It may be strange for a liberal to take care of regional development in this way. I also think it is important in the European context that we develop good cooperation, in particular with those countries bordering on us. Now I come to the strange personnel policy in the house. For the management of the cultural department, a call is being made, and a few people are reporting on it. Then one considers that the qualification is not sufficient and makes a new call for tender, in which French no longer appears as a requirement. It is interesting that in a house where all French and English have to rule, applicants for the leadership of the cultural department – and culture is obviously only anglophil – suddenly no longer have to show French. And why? – To bring a particular person into this position. This person does not even have the Préalable, which is also a normal requirement in this house. You don't need that in this case. A strange process! But it's still going on. Secondly, one could read recently in the "Kurier": "The Proporz as an export product". We have a black commissioner and two red directors. Now there is a mess, because one of the directors – a red one – Mr Zourek is a very competent man who has a very good reputation in Brussels. He was offered the management of the East Extension Task Force. But that's not because you don't know how to re-occupy this free red spot. If the management of the Task Force is accepted, then there will be a messing up again. I think that this procedure is completely harmful. And we must hear from Mr Liikanen that there are several candidates to be made available by Austria when it comes to the occupation of a post. It is unbearable that we do not want to present several candidates because we wanted to export the proportion there. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It goes even further: Appointment of candidates as judge at the European Court of Human Rights. Mr Fuhrmann is sitting here, very well. [[Abg. Arbitrators: They will not be appointed, they will be elected!]] The condition for this office is that judges must enjoy a high moral standing. – That could be true. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Enjoy him!]] They must either fulfil the necessary conditions for the exercise of high judicial offices or be legal scholars of recognised reputation. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right! Lawyers!]] Good. Let us take the best case that we have an untalented candidate as number one, Mr Fuhrmann. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, in the Constitutional Committee!]] Just, Mr Fuhrmann, why did you not manage to put the word "human rights" into the mouth at all during this period of government? I have made the effort to see through all your speeches whether it is really such an internal concern for your part to make a massive commitment to human rights. I barely found it. I would really ask if it were such positions that the Federal Government once decided to issue a catalogue on which conditions there would be nominations. I am not saying that the Federal Government has acted unfairly. Only there was no tender and no hearing. There has been, as it were, a string which is not even desired in Europe. It was determined that you are the number one, Ambassador Cede number two and Professor Nowak number three. Please, be so fair, and make an alert so that everyone can report. Make a hearing, and explain your decision as a Federal Government! Then I have no more problem proposing you as candidates. It is clear to me, Mr Schieder, that a hearing will take place in the Council of Europe with all the candidates, but I would first have liked to have the first stage in Austria. That's the difference. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We are talking about human rights and the commitment of the Federal Government. Last week at the ÖVP we saw the posters with the inscription "Lobby for children". I thought: That's really great, a good initiative. I have reminded myself of what the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is now very busy and who is kidding about what we are saying here, has given me as an answer when I asked him what Austria will do in the conference to combat child labour in Oslo. [[Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel speaks with Mr Eder]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why are you so aggressive?]] Are there initiatives? Are there objectives? Are there any important points we want to negotiate? [[Abg. Steibl: This is a very big topic!]] What did the Foreign Minister answer me in committee? – The Ambassador participates. – And on the contrary, no content opinion. That's not enough for me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I would have liked to have, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should take the family minister's hand, perhaps take her to Norway for two years and say: [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: The Minister of Family is male!]] We believe that the fight against child labour is so important that we are prepared to go there that we are willing to negotiate so that these children no longer have to get into such a situation. [[Abg. Steibl: This is important to us!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Then complain if he does not have time in committee!]] Of course, contracts alone cannot be substituted for the lack of money available in the family. That's clear. But at least there must be the objective and the willingness to rework the UN budget in such a way that the same attention we give to nuclear policy is perhaps to a lesser but important extent still available for children. These are human rights issues that are completely unclear. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The public view is that Austria pays debts from other countries. These are to be debts made by these countries in order to buy weapons. And that's exactly the debt mountain we're taking off. I don't know if that's true. I don't want to put that under control. But if it is, it would be a disaster for Austria. Our development cooperation should not go in a direction that we do not want, namely that there may be militaryly high-level countries, but rather that it should go in the direction already taken at the mine conference, in which a very talented ambassador participated. Federal Minister! I congratulate you for having such an excellent staff in part. This is your luck at a time when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – unfortunately Mr Mock is not here – is suffering that there is often no boss, but that it has to take over these other agendas and that is why the house is headless. Mr. Mock would have preferred to eat an oppositional for breakfast. But he was still a foreign minister, which you sometimes really have to doubt. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I don't understand the following: We are committed to development cooperation. They have answered me that the funds of the Industrial Development Fund have been reduced against the opinion of the Foreign Office, a fund which is very important if one is to try to stop migration, namely migration for economic reasons. Therefore, what I do not understand – perhaps you can tell me here – is why the Minister of Finance has not followed your view that this money should still be directed in the right direction, but has saved the money. Is it really the opinion of the Social Democrats, Mr Gusenbauer, that we do not want to support such a fund for industrial development? I hope you will give me an answer that can satisfy me. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, who obviously researched this, has given me a clear statement, namely: Mr Edlinger is not interested. With regard to the EU Presidency, I asked you if you could perhaps tell me how these 300 million schillings are broken down, Mr Vice-Chancellor. You have said that you will give me this answer in writing, although you are not happy with it because there is no reference budget yet, but we should be orienting to other countries. But you have not invented these 300 million schillings, Mr Vice-Chancellor. You've calculated them. There must be someone in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who has broken his head over how to deal with this whole thing. There are breakdowns. Why don't you make them available? – Then you might be able to talk about weightings. I don't understand why the breakdown of these 300 million is such a secret. It is worth spending the money on the Presidency of the Council. I don't want to criticize that. I just want to see how you spend it and how the federal states might act in it. I would also be interested in what means are provided by the federal states, in addition to the political objective which you have defined to us so far only with keywords. They say it's about ongoing discussions. I would like to know about you the goals and wishes. I do not just want to know the titles, but what you want to achieve effectively in the research framework programme, such as in age research and on all these points you have already mentioned. I would also like to say that They have the same position as Mr Molterer, the Federal Minister, which is what he wants to achieve in agriculture. Why is it not possible for the Federal Government to obtain such a convergence for the Presidency if this is the case for the Federal Minister for Agriculture? I ask you the following: Don't you want to? Are you afraid? Trust You don't, or what's going on? Finally, I would like to talk about one thing, namely the situation of the employees of your home. I have been brought to the attention of the child of a diplomat who is ill and who will not have the opportunity to acquire appropriate insurance periods. The child of this diplomat has attended the school abroad and now wanted to buy these insurance periods. But I can't. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr Moser is already quite nervous! He's getting a heart attack because you're gonna cross it like that!]] These times cannot be rebought because this child was abroad. But neither the families nor the children have been informed of it, and they have been informed that this is not possible. By the way, this child has been sick for a very long time, so it's nothing new. What are you doing for these people? What do you do for the partners who have to give up their profession, who have to quit completely in order not to tear their families apart if, for geographical reasons, cohesion is simply not possible if you are not posted in neighbouring countries of Austria? [[Abg. Großruck: What to do in the private sector?]] What are you doing for these people? It is interesting that this issue has only been discussed since men were affected. When only women were affected, it was never a subject. But since men have been affected, there has suddenly been an uproar about the retirement periods you might be able to buy. It is a precarious situation how diplomats are being treated in our country. I wish you all the best. What we achieve, however, if we do not allow regulations, is that we will only have the worst. This is a state I thought unbearable. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Moser gets a heart attack already!]] I would therefore like you to put in place measures where they are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2586	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2607	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take a very brief look at the comments made by my previous speakers. I have remembered from Mr Bauer's remarks that the Federal Minister should no longer have breakfast, and that if you mix hard and soft together, the hardness becomes softer and the softer. I only ask that this daily experience of pack soups not be transferred directly to the euro. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: This is from the breakfast shop!]] Mrs Gredler has said some things, which is quite to be underlined and where I am of her opinion. In the question of Fuhrmann – I do not need to be the defender of Fuhrmann – I would like to say the following: He has been in the Council of Europe for eight or nine years in the Human Rights Committee, in the Refugee Committee. We already know what he has done for human rights. I would recommend, after you have said here, that you have made the effort to read through all of his speeches for this reason, to see if last year's issue of human rights has occurred, to do a Bourdon test – you know that it is not inappropriate – with which you can check the ability to record read. I remember – without looking at it – a speech immediately – but there will be many – to § 209, in which Mr Fuhrmann has linked the question of age and homosexuality with human rights in the Council of Europe. This is indeed a human rights issue. There will be several examples, but at the first thought I immediately think of one thing, without reading just as much as you did. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The speaking times have also become shorter for first speakers – and this has also been a result of democratization in this House – so that one can no longer spread out his foreign policy ideas over everything, but must be limited to a few points. I would like to address today a point that is being debated in most of the EU's debates in this House, also in the debates in the committees and in the main committee on EU issues. We are very much discussing what the EU should look like. We are discussing enlargement, we are discussing individual areas. We have discussed the euro and the issue of contributions and finances. But, of course, it tends to discuss – and we too – the things – which are also legitimate – which directly concern the country which is a continuation of internal policy, which has a recognizable legal and budgetary impact and directly affects people. I believe it is important that we also talk here more about the role the EU should play in the world, i.e. the EU as a factor in world policy. On economic and monetary policy, this has already happened with the euro debate. However, we are faced with the question of how the EU is dealing with developing countries – Lomé and related issues. The following question comes to us: How strong will this Europe be and can it be in the world? There has been a certain change in the attitude towards the EU, including in American policy, after global development, that a superpower, namely the United States, has emerged. If many years ago there was scepticism to reject the single market, to the euro, to the agreement, to the economic strength, which, we all remember, was expressed most strongly at the Lisbon Summit in 1992, we have seen a certain change for some time. There is a debate – including in the United States – that has found its rainfall in European newspapers and many commentators. It has also been considered in the United States whether they should not demand and wish that Europe should support the United States in the demands of global interests, the global capacity for action, especially in management, in world policy, and no longer be confined to the stabilisation of the EU itself and the continent alone. In recent months, it has expressed most clearly – in a book and in numerous lectures – Brzezinski, who has even pointedly said that, instead of being a voluntary protectorate of America, Europe must become a real partner, but this also means that Europe takes on economic, financial and security obligations. It must be clear to us – or Europe – in this context that such an equal or similar rank can certainly not come without equal participation in decisions in world policy. The idea is that Europe is moving towards world power and thus relieves America of power functions in the world. At first glance, this is something right, positive and welcoming. In the finality, in the intention of sharing with a superpower with a second, weaker one and not letting the others talk, of course, this model cannot be accepted. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wabl.]] Our answer should be: Yes to this role of Europe! Yes to this sharing, also with the United States, but not with the intention to divide power between two, but to use power together to increase and strengthen the instruments of law and order, of justice and security in the international community! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] The question now arises about the United Nations. How can the United Nations be changed, streamlined and financially put in place so that it can, as the only one close to this purpose, improve this function in the future and, without the problems of the present? I am very glad that Austria, the Foreign Office, the Foreign Minister, the responsible department and our representation in Washington have also made very active proposals in the working groups, in the Foreign Policy Council – in which we have had a very good debate – and I believe that it is also important for us as Parliament that we are prepared to speak up for solutions. Some in the United Nations are out of date. Some people no longer fit into the present age, but the administrative reforms emphasized by the Secretary-General in order to save money and exert certain pressure on the United States with a view to a positive financial development are positive, desirable, but not sufficient alone! [[Assured by Dr. Cap and Wabl.]] It is important to evaluate the content of the work of the United Nations. It is also important to think about structural reforms. This is primarily for the Security Council, and I am in favour of our position and also for its enlargement. However, I am also in favour of the fact that, if more Europeans are represented there, there are no longer any differences, but that these Europeans will coordinate the tasks within the EU's Security Council and discuss everything between them. It is also expected from new countries that, if they are admitted as a large developing country, they will speak on behalf of the others and agree on everything. But then we must also be ready for it ourselves! [[Abg. Wabl: Excellent!]] We need to consider how the General Assembly can be changed. If this General Assembly becomes a Hyde Park Corner for ministers and representatives, where everyone can say what he wants, and in the language he wants, it is wrong. If the same large number of resolutions appears again and again, but nothing is structured, nothing new is said about content, then this is a mistake and the way in which the former Finnish UN ambassador Max Jacobson once said: The resolutions appear at the General Assembly like ducks at the annual market shooting booths; some are hit, others are not, but they come back after a certain period of time. In any case, everything is spinning around. – It is important to make reforms, and that is important. It is also important to reconsider the role of the Secretary-General and the financial situation. I am happy about the Austrian attitude. I recognise the EU package of incentives and penalties for finances. I am sorry that America does not agree. I am also pleased that, unlike other countries, we have expressed our support for the changeover to net budgetary management, because this brings increased budgetary transparency. What we need is for parliamentarians around the world to be involved. We need the willingness not to create new superpowers, but to fulfil the UN as the superpower of the right with stronger life, to let it act and not to wait for the only superpower to act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, with representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] In this context, there has been a very good proposal in recent days: The chairman of the French National Assembly's Foreign Policy Committee Jacques Lang took up the proposal hidden in the Peace Agenda of a fire brigade for the UN and said that it would help. . I am in favour, Mr Foreign Minister, of seriously examining this proposal and of talking seriously to the political groups. I could imagine, of course, that Austria is also voting in favour of this proposal, because we should also be interested in helping quickly in the world when aid is needed for states and people.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2728	The next honourable Member is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2750	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. A debate like today is always a temptation to talk about a lot about foreign policy. In fact, there is also a lot of news and important things on the table. My previous speakers and my previous speaker have already cut the Presidency of the EU Council. It was also about EU enlargement and about discussing the changed economic, democratic and social conditions in Europe. Although there is a lot to be said about this, I would just like to confine myself to a subject that also has a very strong domestic policy context. – By the way, it has always been my concern to bring foreign policy down a little from its podcast and to convey that foreign policy always has an internal policy impact and impact. That is why I would also like to confine myself to a subject, and this is the common foreign and security policy in Europe, in particular that which is also in place in Austria and which is being repeatedly referred to by your side, namely the issue of the option report, which will be available next year and will create fierce discussions. In this context, I am particularly aware of your foreign policy that all decisions and debates, even every attempt to initiate a debate at all, whether in committee or here in plenary, will be repeatedly postponed by the reason that all this will be done with the option report if it is on the table, you will see everything. I can only stress from here that this is not enough and that it is not enough for the Federal Government to present an option report next year, but that I believe it is important that we Members also discuss the various options, not only those who have a narrower sense of security policy or implications or decisions in military policy, but above all those who have foreign policy implications and implications. – This debate is, however, repeatedly delayed by the indication that, if the option report is on the table, it will be seen. We see something else, though. While they are avoiding the debate here in the House and in the public, they are very likely to take all steps towards preparing for membership to NATO – without debate in the House, without decisions and discussions in the Committee to list just a few things. New steps are being taken between the individual national Council debates, each time taking decisions similar to those of a clandestine preparation of NATO accession and a miscarriage of the question of neutrality in Austria. The final step of this series does not concern the government in the narrower sense, but your government partner, the Social Democratic Party. We read and hear that the Social Democratic Party has gone through a "wonderful" decision. It was for this purpose to strengthen the Yes to the "Partnership for Peace", to do so in a way that it was not clear from the newspapers how – but to postpone the decision on NATO until after the National Council elections. This is a very "elegant" decision, because with it you or at least you think you have decoupled this issue from the National Council elections. [[Abg. Scheibner: Dangerous!]] On the other hand, this sounds like an injunction. In view of what the "Partnership for Peace" really is or how ever an increased participation in this "Partnership for Peace" should look like, it becomes clear to us that this means nothing but a further evasion of neutrality and that, in the next two years, the Austrians should be softly knocked over by the detour of an enhanced participation in the "Partnership for Peace". When the national elections are over, there will at last be no more problems with explaining to the so-called dumbest voters of social democracy why we now have to go to NATO and are no longer neutral. - That's your decision. For you in your situation and position, of course, this is practical, the coalition partner works elegantly to you. In order to bring it back to the point, we note: They call on the option report to prevent any democratic debate in the public, in the house and in the committees. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] When, in our opinion, did we start the evasion of the State Treaty, especially the neutral position? – It actually began in 1990 with the declaration of an obsolescence of a very important part of the state treaty, which is not to be underestimated, namely the one in which it concerns the stationing of nuclear weapons. The obsolet declaration, which makes this part no longer valid and which has been replaced by another one that is "swivel" and leaves all the back doors and all the options for your report, refers to Austria not to manufacture, own or use such weapons anymore, but leaves the question whether other countries, states and military units possessing such weapons, can station them in Austria and use them completely open. The decision on this Declaration of Obsolence was the beginning of a whole series of measures in this direction, with which you are constantly trying to explain artfully that all of this is still related to the State Treaty and the Neutrality, but it has not been so long since and has not been done. We have kept this up-to-date and can always do so, starting with the transport of US tanks intended for the Gulf War through Austria, through the "Partnership for Peace", which has still not been brought to the attention of Parliament, through a statute of troops, which was finally discussed in the Council of Ministers, but which has still not been brought to the attention of Parliament, to a law of posting, which was adopted at the beginning of this year and in which the question of intervention troops, the participation of Austria in such troops and the stationing of such troops in Austria is finally defined. With all these steps, you believe that you are avoiding the issue of popular decision-making and that you can convince the people that decisions will only fall after the next National Council election. I can only repeat – and we will concentrate all our certainly modest possibilities, means and forces afterwards –: A popular decision must now be made! This also seems to be necessary to us because of the experience of past decisions or non-decisions, since you have long taken all appropriate steps in the meantime, and Austria, us, its citizens, who may then decide at some point, will present complete facts. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Foreign Minister! It is also striking in foreign policy that you have gone to diving station on this question since your breakfast in Amsterdam. They are no longer at all expressing their views on the matter of the common position. Foreign and security policy or the options for an Austrian position in this security policy! This fits perfectly into the image of an external policy, which has been strengthened from time to time, which has not existed since your accession, but has been hiding and hiding under the cover of the European Union and is attached to the large neighbouring country of Germany. Whenever there is an opportunity to refer, for example, to bilateral contacts, as just recently, on the occasion of the visit of the Turkish President, They want us to see what the EU will do. Although we will make ourselves strong, there are no positions of our own instead only the reference to our membership of the European Union. It is not written in any of the Treaties of the European Union that with membership of the European Union you must give up your independent position in foreign policy or no longer be able to set your own accents. On the contrary! That is exactly what would be necessary and important, and it will or should be expected by a Community of States like the European Union. In my opinion, you would have a good example and example, a head of state of a Christian democratic party, that is, even your camp, that of Luxembourg. This head of state sets out what can be an independent policy – also as a member country of the European Union and also in preparation or within a presidency in which they set their own accents, make their own progress, put forward their own proposals. However, you should not, as you did during and before the Amsterdam conference, drop word donations somewhere, but actually represent and support your position in the local bodies. But Austrian foreign policy has been reduced to barely any more perceptibility! If we have read the newspapers today or over the past few weeks, we have had to realize that Austrian foreign policy is hardly perceived in the public. It is obviously also below the perceptive limit of the media rapporteurs. That, please, is not specified by membership of the European Union! On the contrary! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Finally, I would like to make the following comparison. Today I have considered what the difference between your predecessor, whose policy I have not shared in any way – I think you know what he has represented in foreign policy – and you are. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: There he will be very sad!]] But I must tell you that your predecessor had something like passion for foreign policy. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And for Croatia!]] Everything he has done has really done with his heart, even in Croatia, even in those cases where I didn't have any opinion at all. But foreign policy was noticeable and perceptible! Even if I did not share his opinion, I could at least discuss it, Mr Schieder! I was able to deal with the positions. They weren't mine, but I could discuss it and argue about it. – The current foreign policy is not present, it does not even give me the opportunity to discuss and argue about it in a debate. That's the difference!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2849	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. König. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2870	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There will be two historical choices in the EU next year. It is the enlargement of the East and the first step towards the euro with the selection of those countries which will be the first in monetary union. The Presidency of Austria in the second half of 1998 will therefore be substantially influenced by these changes. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make three observations on the enlargement of the East. For us, the unification of Eastern Europe with the free Western Europe is a historical and moral task, but also a political one. In addition, it is for us the extension of the system of peace which has already been established in the European Union for over 50 years, in Eastern Europe and thus the prerequisite for our own future security in Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, The chosen procedure of differentiated negotiations with all Member States will ensure that all have the same opportunities. Progress and pace will depend on how they deal with their own development. Thirdly – and I think this is very important –: Those countries that are knocking on our door today and wish to join the EU – we can be glad that we are already in the process, otherwise we will have to work together – are in a situation that is much more difficult than Portugal or Spain at their then accession negotiations. It will therefore be necessary to help these countries with a transitional solution at the preparatory stage to achieve the minimum standards of the West on economic, social and environmental issues. [[Abg. Young: And we pay that!]] No, Mr Jung! If the applicants achieve this before accession, there is no social and environmental dumping, and we have thus provided for the people of these countries and for a transition into the EU, which is also acceptable and acceptable to us. [[Abg. Meisinger: In 30 years!]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Young: If it continues as in the pension debate: 2030!]] Now to the common European currency, the euro! The Freedom Party, as in its time of accession to the EU, has also preferred to say no to Europe. With this No you continue your anti-Europe line consistently. [[Abg. Young: That's not true!]] A party which is excluded from Europe itself cannot participate in this European process either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] No, you can't! In spite of the announcements made by Mr Haider, you did not find a partner among the political groups with which you could do something in the European Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of whether we want the euro or not, but of whether, if most of all EU member countries, including our main trading partners, namely Germany and Italy, want to introduce the euro, we can stay out alone. [[Abg. Young: We have nothing more to say!]] [[Abg. Young: Denmark, England!]] Do you seriously believe that the Schilling retains its value if we decouple from the D-Mark, exclude ourselves from the euro and are exposed to international speculation alone? We think this is irresponsible! You should think deeply about it. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Let me make a final comment. The EU has a protection function especially for small countries such as Austria. [[Abg. Young: How big is Denmark?]] Consider how many anti-dumping proceedings the EU Commission is currently carrying out against East Asian states and also against the great China, a state-trading country, because of unfair competition. Who else, if not the EU, could carry out such procedures? A country like Austria could not have opened a single one, we would have lost the market immediately and would be on a black list. The Commission's action to stop granting preferential tariffs to developed Asian tiger states if they are not prepared to accept minimum social and environmental standards in bilateral agreements with the EU is only possible for a large organisation such as the European Union. This also ensures fair competition in the global environment, and our companies are protected from being based on unfair competition in this global environment. [[Abg. Young: Which of our companies have not yet been sold?]] Finally, the WTO and the GATT negotiations will only be able to perceive the interests of agricultural agriculture if we jointly represent these interests in the EU. That is why the EU is the best solution for Austria, but also for the young people of our country, to preserve their opportunities and to be able to determine their own development in peace and security.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3046	Mrs Madl has made a statement on an actual correction. I would ask you to quote the facts to be corrected and to compare them with the actual ones. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3069	Mr President. High house! Mr. Dr. König has claimed that the Freedom Party says no to the euro. This claim is incorrect. [[Call the ÖVP:Ah! Go on!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We will publish this!]] The Freedom Party is in favour of a shift in the introduction of the euro and would like to ask the people first whether it wants the euro or not.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3128	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3149	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to deal with the euro, but with another aspect of European integration. In the context of the plans for enlargement of the Community, a State is... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Are you for it or against it? – For the introduction of the euro?]] I said I was not talking about this subject. In addition, it seems that you did not pay attention to the remarks made by my predecessor. We want the population not to simply pass through such an important decision, but to speak with it. That's our view. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you're in the first row anyway. If you concentrate a little bit, you can already know all of this the first time and you don't have to repeat it all. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Back to the real topic. The plans to extend the European Union are being deliberately passed on to one country, namely Slovakia, with the declaration that Slovakia does not consider it appropriate with the Hungarian minority within its borders, as it is appropriate for a European country. The Hungarian minority is very large in numbers and already plays an important role in Slovakia as a percentage. The EU believes that if you want to be at home in Europe, you have to treat a minority wisely, first you have to admit that there is it, and accordingly ensure that it can flourish and thrive. That's good! Those who today strive to join the European Union in advocating the rule of law and democracy must also be allowed to set strict standards for dealing with ethnic groups within their borders. . I just don't understand why one recognizes this in Slovakia, but not with other candidates for enlargement of the European Union, for example, why other standards are laid down or blind in the assessment of the Czech Republic and the Republic of Slovenia. I should like to remind you that in the Czech Republic the Beneš decrees, of which we all know that they are illegal, especially illegal, are still in force, not because they have been forgotten, but because they are kept in full consciousness. It is known that the number of German tongues still resident in the Czech Republic is between 60,000 and 100, some of which claim to be up to 200,000, despite the ousting of the whole group in the Czech Republic at the time. Their rights are zero, there is no recognition as a ethnic group. Pediatric gardens, schools, teaching, official language, all that is available in this sector is zero. Ladies and gentlemen! The treatment of the remaining Old Austrian German tongue in the Czech Republic is in any case far worse than that of the Hungarian people's group in Slovakia. I believe that we, which we have obligations to the Old Austrians of German tongues also in this country, cannot escape the task of accepting these things. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And what about Slovenia? – In Slovenia, there are still the AVNOJ provisions, which have long since been removed from the world in Croatia, but are still consciously alive in Slovenia. These are provisions from the partisan era, from 1943, in which, among other things, everyone who speaks German is declared free of birds. He is not a legal person, you can do with him what you want, you can take everything away from him, and you can only kill him, in contrast to earlier, more theoretically. It won't be that easy today. However, these seriously illegal, international and human rights provisions continue to exist in Slovenia. Now we have a unanimous – well-noticed: more unanimous! – The recent decision by the Carinthian state government calling on the Republic of Slovenia to finally recognise and act as a minority not only the Italians, Hungarians and Romas and Sinti's national groups in their borders, but also to do so with regard to the Old Austrian German tongue. What was the answer? In a shortened form, I read from the "standard" in which it reads: Foreign Minister Boris Frlec stated that a German-speaking minority "I don't know". In a cartoon of the daily Vecer, Kärnten's head of state Christof Zernatto was "explained" that he could only find the German minority at the cemetery. Ladies and gentlemen! Cynism, as it is here, can no longer be surpassed: First, the majority of an autochthonic group of German tongues, namely the Old-Austrian German tongue, is killed, the rest is hunted outside of the country, and the few who have kept themselves, will be prevented, if what is natural today, for their rights income, that they do not exist at all, and those who want to seek and find them must look at the cemetery. That's a scandal! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the Carinthian Government can be left in the rain with its unanimous decision taken by the votes of all parties in such a situation as the head of state of Carinthia, and secondly, one cannot see that a state is marching towards Europe, which is taking the position towards a minority that has almost been exterminated there decades ago, whose remains are simply no longer if one is looking for the people's group, one has to go to the cemetery. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Where are the peace marchers? Where?]] The Republic of Austria cannot be allowed to do so if it wants to preserve dignity and upright course!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3231	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. He's got the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3261	Mr President. High house! The discussion on what foreign policy concept you have to ask yourself at what time and which people can best implement it is interesting, but absolutely necessary. The time when Foreign Minister Mock worked was completely different from that in which Foreign Minister Schüssel works in this office. That is why what honourable Members have meant by Chamberlander is an ahistorical reference, with which nothing can be started. You can deal with the principles, nothing else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is therefore only to assess what is being done now and what one wants to implement with what concepts in the future. I would like to draw attention to a number of points which have already been made in the security debate about the relationship between the USA and Europe. [[Abg. Wabl: To join the speech of the arbitrator will not go!]] I agree, of course, with my previous speaker, Mr Schieder, who has agreed that the European position is important and needs to be strengthened. [[Abg. Wabl: Where? What?]] Well, these are apples! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] It is important to recognize that we have not really been able to develop a common foreign and security policy on the most important issues, and above all not with regard to the establishment of a European security system. [[Abg. Young: You don't even bring that together in the coalition!]] This is a very difficult process, as there is already a wide variety of traditions, developments and existing structures. However, it is necessary to develop Europeanisation in the design of a European security system in conjunction with the USA. Historical events play a major role here. One European does not trust the other in the background of the First and Second World Wars. For the British, in turn, the presence of the Americans on the European continent is very pleasant because they are a counterweight to the Germans or the Germans and Frenchs. [[Abg. Young: Like in the coalition!]] We have already experienced this when it came to a conflict resolution in the area of former Yugoslavia. Suddenly, there were the old fronts again, as they were observed in the period before the First World War. It is therefore an important task to participate in the development of a common foreign and security policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: Right!]] Austria, as I believe, not only has this in its concept, but it is also trying to put it into practice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] That is why the debate, which concerns not only the security system in Europe itself but also NATO, is also taking place. NATO must, of course, try to implement this element of Europeanisation if it is to be more widely accepted in Europe. This requires not only Europe and the European Member States, but also the USA to make their contribution. I believe that this is an important condition for NATO to be able to receive increased acceptance – possibly also in Austria. So much to one point. The second point in this context – he was already an important discussion point today – is the question of EU enlargement. I am forwarding that I have always listened to your reports with interest, but I am one of the skeptics, at least as far as EU enlargement is concerned. But I also see with skepticism how it is right now. It is not true that, from a political point of view, I did not want to try to achieve this economic and political integration of the Eastern European countries. I am only warning against creating too great illusions in the Eastern European countries. I think that the pace will be much slower and the enlargement will be much more difficult, and I also think that we really need to discuss as transparently as possible consequences, whether it be the cost question of Austria's net payment position in particular, or whether it be the EU's reformability, especially when I hear that enlargement has an impact on the structure of the institutions and that the reform of the agricultural system in the EU is a prerequisite for this. I only need to think of Poland, and I am running a cold shower over my back when I imagine that an increasingly rapid integration process is taking place, which will have its impact on the agricultural system, on the costs and, of course, on the net payer position. [[Abg. Aumayr: Me too!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: And on the jobs!]] I think that there are really a lot of questions, for example the question of the social level of these countries, not only now, at the beginning of the negotiations, but later, when more specific contracts or perhaps integration will come and they will enter the EU. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You should ask this with the euro too!]] Is there any working unions there? Are these trade unions really independent partners when it comes to solving social issues? From what economic level do they assume? I know there are some of the companies that recognize a rapidly growing market there, and there are some who say there are cheap workers there. But that alone is not enough. The countries concerned should also consider the consequences for industrial and economic infrastructure if enlargement is taking place too quickly. I therefore think it is right to involve these countries in a negotiation process and motivate them to work hard. It is probably also right to find forms of political integration now, so that they do not feel pushed back, so that there is no polarization and that does not have a political and political negative impact on security and peace. But I also think that the step of economic integration and the approximation of social and environmental levels will take longer than is currently expected. That is why I now call on the Foreign Minister to communicate this also if Austria will hold the Presidency next year and this issue will be an essential issue in Austria, which will be at the heart of other issues of this Presidency. This should also be communicated for the purpose of ensuring that fear-maker strategies cannot be grasped and that we are really in a political position to identify ourselves with the goal of enlargement in the long term, and that we pay very close attention to the pace at which it takes place in connection with economic, social and environmental possibilities. I think that should be said clearly so that there are no illusions in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3438	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please, Minister. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3459	Thank you. – High Parliament! Allow me to address a little of the questions raised. A discussion about the role of Austria and the Austrian foreign policy towards the time before membership is quite interesting. This is exactly the point that Mrs Kammerlander and other speakers have raised. I think that we must get used to the fact that today we have to develop a completely different role and role definition for our foreign policy than before accession to the European Union on 1 January. January 1995 was the case. At that time it was easy to move independently in certain market areas, to take over certain mediation functions and to have a certain independent profile. Today this is also happening, but we have a greater responsibility within the European Union for the whole and, on the other hand, enormously more co-decision than at the time when this was not the case. Secondly, we must not overlook the fact that there are bottlenecks in the history at which a decision is taken, even if you have almost expressed a desire for such a decision. Today is another time announced. Today, it is not about passionately arguing whether Croatia should be recognized or not. Thank God is recognized every successive state. Today it is about securing peace in this region. This can only be done by means of the European Union's resources economically, by means of the UN's mandate and by means of NATO's resources. That's the difference. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore say a clear yes to an active foreign policy in Austria, particularly within the European Union, an active neighbourhood policy in Austria towards the immediate or other community and an active profile of Austria within the multilateral institutions, especially within the United Nations. I am referring to the most important issue – it has already been mentioned by every speaker –: the question of the EU Presidency. We will enter the Troika from January and will be the European Union's face and voice internationally from July to December 1998. This is a big goal and a big challenge. We will hold more than 40 ministerial conferences. There will be about 1,500 different meetings – Council Working Groups et cetera – in which Austria will chair. About 300 million schillings – 350 to 360 million schillings, as a certain reserve is included – are planned so that we can organize this, manage the support of the international press well and optimise communication networking worldwide. For it must be possible for every ambassador of Austria – whether in South America or Asia – to be the voice of Europe "just in time" at the moment and point. We have invested a great deal of money for this, and for that we also have the means to do so. Austria will be the most important contact for third countries at this time. We are primarily responsible for the design and implementation of the common foreign and security policy and for the crisis management of the Union. The most important criterion of the Presidency – and I say this quite clearly here – is not to give the other fourteen Member States national priorities, to put the latter in place and to be almost proud of the fact that they are playing their own game, but rather the decisive and the real criterion for the success of a good Presidency is to play the mediator independently to deal with a professional Presidency and to bring it into this issue with its own profile. I would also like to mention those points which are completely undisputed within the Federal Government. One of the key issues – not only in the Austrian Presidency, but now, starting with Amsterdam and at the forthcoming employment summit in Luxembourg – is of course the question of jobs. Austria is going well prepared in the employment summit to take place next week. We have seen an increase in the number of employees compared to the previous year – as opposed to many other European countries. We have 12 000 additional jobs and 3 000 additional apprenticeship contracts compared to the previous year. For the first time since the mid-1970s, the trend has been broken and not less, but more apprentices have been employed and trained. Thanks to the efforts of the medium-sized economy in particular, some 3,000 apprentices find additional employment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have also accommodated 6,700 students in the secondary vocational and higher schools. We could add 3 000 more, so that we are right to be that country in the employment summit... [[Abg. Scheibner: What does this have to do with foreign policy?]] This is foreign policy because next week – represented by the Chancellor and me – there will be positions on employment policy in the Luxembourg Summit. If you don't understand that, I'm sorry, Mr. Deputies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] We are entering as the best-prepared country: as the number one and the best country in the field of youth employment, and as the second best country in terms of the total unemployment rate – it is the second lowest in all of Europe. The issue of employment will therefore also be a central issue for the Austrian Presidency. We also want to deal with the issue of environmental protection. At this time, above all, the development of the Union's environmental standards, but also some of the most important international negotiations on global environmental problems are being conducted very well by our Environment Minister Bartenstein. The issue of internal security will be an important priority. Because we must oppose the sophisticated international criminal network to an effective cooperation of the European police and judicial authorities. We must ensure in our presidency that the new instruments of the Treaty of Amsterdam can be used quickly and effectively in this area. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We will reach the final stage of the completion of the internal market in our presidency. This is a very important topic for the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. We want to achieve that at this time the small and medium-sized enterprises of bureaucracy will be relieved and, above all, the very complex Eurostat surveys will be significantly reduced. The internal market has, of course, the most positive effects on consumers, but also on jobs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second issue was the issue of development cooperation. Since we had a wide-ranging discussion in the Council on Monday, I would like to report here that the European Union is the world's largest donor organisation. 60 percent of the world's development co-operation resources come from the EU budget or bilaterally from the EU Member States to the developing countries. On Monday, a principle discussion on the Lomé Convention was also held, stating that 71 Member States with over 600 million people are one of the most important partners for the Union and that the Union has been the most important donor for them. The Union will have to maintain the leading role within the United Nations. It pays at least 40 percent of the total budget. We therefore also want the conventions – landmines, tow-unbeings – and a UN reform. Focus on human rights: Next year, 50 years since the Declaration of Human Rights, which is rightly recognized during the Austrian Presidency, will have passed. We shall also express this in our presidency. Of course, in the common foreign and security policy, we will have to deal with some crucial and critical issues. Allow me now that I cannot say how we will solve all of this. We cannot fully estimate the potential for conflict in the second half of 1998. But in our presidency, the mandate for the Bosnia-Herzegovina – for SFOR – will expire. We are massively committed to extending this military presence. Of course, we want to accept Cyprus, which is likely to be a particularly critical issue at this time. The Middle East is also an important subject in which the EU is very responsible and can and will also play a major positive role. During our presidency, the most recent preparations and final decisions for the European Community currency will be taken. This will be a very sensitive time. The circle of the participating countries is already established. It is likely that the personal decision on the European Central Bank will not be taken until our presidency. But we will have to defend possible speculations, especially at this time. We will also need to implement technical implementation at this time. In my view, it is very important that Austria – which, like hardly any other European country, will benefit from this European Community currency – in particular has a very clear profile. So one word to Mr Holger Bauer – he is not here now, but perhaps he will be told: Because the issue of monetary and currency countries is being mixed together over and over again, I should like to make it clear that the preparation for the euro has reduced the average inflation rate within the European Union from 10 per cent to less than 2.5 per cent. In particular, countries such as Italy – I think, in particular, his word, but he obviously does not have the latest statistics and information available – are among the most stable countries in Europe today, as measured by the inflation rate. That's positive! Italy, our second most important trading partner, who is energetically prepared and committed to this monetary union and is likely to be there – by the way, this is a demand that was once raised by the Freedom Party – now has this opportunity, and a new front is immediately being opened up, as hard and soft currencies would almost be mixed together. Inwardly, this currency must be as hard as the hardest! That is why we are making them, and that is why the criteria set out in the Convergence Catalogues are so important. [[Abg. Scheibner: And who controls the hardness?]] [[Further call to the liberals.]] Of course, control is carried out by the European Union and, above all, by the European Central Bank. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] In particular, a separate Stability Pact has been established for the future in order to create stability criteria for this European currency. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Never forget – when we talk about economic links on this point – that the potential and likely circle of participating countries with Austria has at least a trade volume of 800 billion schilling. Introducing these and creating stable conditions for our importers and exporters, in particular, helps small and medium-sized enterprises and gives them security in the context of the economy. This cannot and must not leave us as politicians indifferent! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second question, the question of enlargement, was discussed in a massive way. I would like to respond because enlargement, as it concerns mainly our neighbouring countries, is a particularly important but at the same time sensitive concern for us. I would like to make a very clear statement here. From the start of my duties, I have made it my main goal, just like my predecessor, to establish a non-fractional, yes friendly relationship with our neighbours. The most important thing in foreign policy is – believe me: the teaching from history shows how difficult this is often – with the immediate neighbours with whom we have not always had a simple, common story or still have a non-fractional, friendly and open relationship. I am proud that in the last 18 months alone we have established over 60 bilateral contacts with our neighbouring countries and that we have doubled trade within the last five years. This was not to the detriment of Austria, because with the 140 billion Schilling trade volumes in both directions we have doubled the trade surplus over the last five years. Today it is more than 20 billion schilling. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I add one: We must not give the impression that we want to keep out consciously and deliberately neighbouring countries that have now found the way to the market economy and democracy. We must pay attention to the fact that we find clear, objective criteria for who joins, under what conditions of accession takes place and at what time and whether the respective candidate is well prepared to avoid interference on both sides – a migration of the best, intellectuals, doctors or engineers, but also a flood of the European and Austrian markets with dumping products. These are the essential points. Mrs Gredler! I really ask you not to use the word "enemy" – you used it, I wrote it down – in this context. No one else has done that, not even the critics. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] We must learn that there are also more skeptical voices on the enlargement process, but the skeptics do not see any enemies in Austria's neighbours either. This fineness in the distinction of language is, in any case, very, very important to me. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] I would not understand anyone who is critical of the timetable of enlargement because he sees an enemy in the neighbor. Note a second point. Although Mr Ofner has pointed out this subject relatively factually, it is a particularly critical point at the moment, and I would like to address it here because this matter concerns a very important neighbouring country, namely Slovenia. I am currently seeing the development of a publicly revolving emotion on both sides with a certain concern. I say quite frankly to you that I consider the resolution of the Carinthian Government to be a good basis, because it directs the matter exactly where it belongs, namely to the level of bilateral, good, open and friendly discussions, as is customary among neighbours, yes necessary. It does not produce junktime with a multilateral enlargement process. This resolution is in order, and it supports the ambition of the Federal Government to discuss all that needs to be discussed: the safety of nuclear power plants and the issue of Slovenian minority policy in Austria and the German-speaking minority in Slovenia. I have commissioned a study by one of the best Austrian historians, which will be available in the near future – at the end of November or at the beginning of December. A high-quality Slovenian historian will present a similar study in spring. I therefore warn and ask, at the same time, that we try not to raise emotions in our reactions, but to contribute to a clarification of the discussion. I also say quite openly: This includes a clear appeal to Slovenian media. The cartoon mentioned is not only tasteless, but, in my opinion, it also deeply violates Slovenians who must be interested in an open and friendly relationship with Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, there is no demand for the victors – those who throw a torch into an already sensitive relationship – but now an objective, open discussion is also announced about our own history. This is what we have to put forward. Of course, it must also be a young country like Slovenia. The Czechs, Slovaks, Hungary, Poland, the Germans – we all have to work on it and we must not use the shadows of the past to darken our common future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that many speakers have said a thank you, as it is not natural to say to the staff of the Foreign Office at home and abroad, who work with very little effort. We are one of the smallest ministries in Europe and, in my opinion, we are still making excellent and intensive policies. Despite the fact that the budget has been frozen for three years, we have expanded the number of representative authorities and launched five new messages in the last few months. I have all opened them up and I know how important this presence and visibility of Austria is in the respective countries. We have greatly restructured and are up-to-date with communication technology: We have introduced the electronic act as the first and only ministry. This will significantly speed up the processes and give us the opportunity to turn to other topics and tasks. – So much about internal reform, which is very important to me. Allow me not to address the polemics in connection with the Diplomatic Academy in particular. I thought I had already clarified it in committee, but I would like to say it again. The corresponding Member, who has not been able to take up what I have said in committee, has claimed that we have doubled the expenditure. Because we had previously estimated 30 million Schilling under two positions, and we have set it in a single budget position today. 30 million schillings are frozen for the next few years. The disseminating effect is that we have cleared service posts inside and in addition we have not increased the budget – otherwise we would have done or should have done so – but have clearly frozen it. One last point: I am pleased that Mrs Gredler has responded and has mentioned co-insurance for spouses. I have managed to get the commitment of Minister of Finance Edlinger to co-insurance of spouses – whether male or female – with appropriate personal funding. This is what we have done, and I would like to express my express thanks to the Minister for Finance for his understanding and believe that this is very important for cooperation in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3635	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. Mrs. Dr. Gredler has reported on an actual correction. I would ask that the actual situation be compared to that which has to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3663	In connection with my speech, Mr Vice-Chancellor referred to the fact that I had considered the neighbouring countries to be enemies. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No! I didn't say that!]] [[Further calls.]] In fact, I am correct in saying that I first brought Mr ÖGB President's quote of opposition, which said in connection with enlargement: We cannot afford a social disaster. After that, I said that we should not, in fact, view our neighbours as enemies. On the contrary: We have the duty, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3698	Thank you. The content of the actual correction is thus fulfilled. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3732	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! First of all, I should like to address my previous speakers. The Federal Minister, he is certainly right to say, said that the role of Austria today is different within the European Union than it was before our accession to the European Union. Today, it is really a question of having greater responsibility within the European Union and having more opportunities for participation. Federal Minister! With this statement you are certainly right – however, the challenge to our foreign policy has also become another. Ladies and gentlemen! We have to think and act Europeanally, and I still believe that there is a need for rethinking. I am here to speak to colleagues of the arbitration. He was right to say that we here in Parliament, within the framework of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, or also of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as we are also discussing questions of European integration, should be more concerned with the role and role of the European Union in the context of world policy in the future. It has set out the example of Lomé on the issue of development policy and, of course, the question of how strong Europe is to be active and committed there. Mr. Schieder! I agree with you a hundred percent, because I believe it makes sense and is necessary that the European Union, as a state community of over 370 million citizens, with a high economic potential and a democratic social order, also bears responsibility in world policy. The European Union must exercise strategic interests and must also assume obligations under world policy, but as an equal partner with the United States. It is therefore particularly important to define, within the framework of a common foreign and security policy, the position of the European Union with regard to the United States of America accordingly. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr. Schieder! You will agree with me when I say that we need an effective, effective common foreign and security policy within the framework of the European Union. We must come to a common foreign and security policy, within the framework of which the European Union speaks with one voice, within which it is able to define policy objectives, to define strategic objectives within which it is able to, with one voice, represent the common interests in the international bodies. This is still missing, and I think Austria should take on a pioneering role. I can ask you, Mrs State Secretary, who is now representing Mr Foreign Minister, to consider, within the framework of Austrian foreign policy, strategies and concepts in the way in which the European Union can play its role in the context of world policy. I mean, that doesn't just belong to a common community. Foreign and security policy, but it is also necessary to continue the integration of the European Union. We are now taking a very important step with the common economic and monetary union. This is a very important step towards strengthening the European Union's opportunities accordingly. However, I also believe that it is necessary for the European Union to step up its integration on security policy issues, to work together better and to come to a clearer, clearer line. It would then also fulfil its responsibility in security matters on the European continent, and we would not always need decisions by the American Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Pentagon when it comes to creating peace on the continent. This would be a very important and crucial task for the European Union in the future, and Austria should move forward with commitment here. Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the issue of security integration, Mrs Kammerlander complained about the evasion of neutrality. I regret that she is not here now, but Mr Wabl will certainly continue to tell her. [[Abg. Wabl: I say it to her, to point out!]] My dear colleagues from the Greens! Finally, take note that neutrality has lost its function as a security policy concept for Austria! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Self-deception!]] Mr Wabl! The time of the cold war is over in Europe Thank God. [[Abg. Wabl: The Constitution is "disposed" by Mr. Moser!]] The time of Europe's division is over, thank God. Therefore, for Austria, the strategic environment has changed completely, and therefore neutrality as a security policy concept is no longer the answer to the challenges of the future. That is a fact, and I ask you to really acknowledge these arguments. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. King of the Austrian People's Party has briefly referred to the enlargement of the East. It is true that it is necessary to make sense to help, in the run-up to this Easter enlargement, in the run-up to this integration of our neighbouring countries into the European Union. The result will be that we will not have a social and wage dumping in the future, that there will not be an outflow of economic power in the neighbouring regions, because they are economically equal. Therefore, the effects which are undoubtedly present cannot be expected in the future. But it is also important that we are also speech tubes for these countries when it comes to accession to the European Union, i.e. we are committed to the inclusion of neighbouring countries and do not forget individual neighbouring countries. I am thinking of Slovakia in particular. I believe that the integration of Slovakia into the Community of States would be better for the country and also for Europe than for this country, ladies and gentlemen. I regret that, on such an important issue in the discussions in Brussels, Austrian foreign policy has gone from the original starting line concept to the fact that Austria has not been more committed to entering into treaty negotiations with all neighbouring countries that Austria has not resisted there. I regret the small addition of our Foreign Minister and the failure to meet the expectations that we had towards Austria. These states have not only expected empty words from Austria, and we should also look to the future. Perhaps we need these neighbouring countries once again in terms of their commitment to us if we want to take a next step, for example, on the issue of security policy. Then it would be important if we had these friends. I now come to the question of the future Austrian security policy position; it has already been addressed by many of my previous speakers. I regret that this question is again and again only polarized with the question of NATO accession: yes or no? It is unfortunate that we have not yet received a position from the Federal Government. However, this will still be done because, in this debate process, it is of course important to get closer to each other from different positions in order to reach a positive and meaningful solution for our country. I think it is more problematic that you are not even clear about the time sequence. Mr President, I should like to say that I am very grateful to the Commissioner for his excellent report. Now we are waiting for the option report. I am not so sure that the option report will actually make a decision. I believe that we must make this discussion very open, and I also believe that the reflections of the development of a European defence and security identity must be brought into the debate much more strongly. It is a question of developing a European defence identity within the framework of the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Scheibner, we will then certainly be very detailed about this issue. The European Union is a peace idea in its basic concept. Originally, it was a matter of giving the availability of the resources of the war into a supranational responsibility. Now it is about shifting the availability of the means of action of a war to a supranational level, taking it out of national responsibility. I therefore believe that this is a very important step, and it is therefore a mistake to ignore this European dimension in the debate on future Austrian security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Federal Government is also making a very serious mistake when it approaches NATO if this approach to Parliament is to take place. I think this is politically unwise because it is necessary and because it makes sense to have a very open, fair, clear discussion about it. I also think that it is also a constitutional question. I therefore took with me the "Grundrupt of the Austrian Federal Constitution". In my opinion, those contracts, which are currently concluded between the Federal Government and NATO, these state agreements, in fact political state agreements, are therefore necessary in accordance with Article 50 of the Austrian Constitution, a participation of the Austrian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! When do we speak of "political state agreements"? In the "Grundreiß der Österreichische Bundesverfassung", in the comment – and after this book we have studied all constitutional law at the University – reads: Political State agreements may be understood as State agreements dealing with public affairs and affecting the existence, territorial integrity or independence and the position or the relevant weight of a State in the State community. Ladies and gentlemen! If, today and already in the past, 1995, we have concluded state agreements with NATO, which clearly regulate our future integration and our future role and task within the framework of this state community, if we clearly define that we are doing joint exercises, that we carry out common tasks, military actions in Europe, if we adapt and coordinate our military forces accordingly, then that is a political question, then this is a political state treaty. In my view, therefore, Parliament is forced to deal with this, and I should like to ask Mr President - and I am surprised that the Socialist Group can do so - to bring back the Federal Government's proposals on this matter to Parliament so that we can discuss and discuss this question accordingly in Parliament. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to address one point that is particularly important to me in the context of Austrian foreign policy: the question of development cooperation. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: There were only two applauses!]] Two are better than none! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] On the issue of Austrian development cooperation. – Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that the budget in question has at least remained stable. I regret, however, Mrs State Secretary, that we must see a downward trend in development cooperation. I regret that the necessary East aid is obviously at the expense of Austrian development cooperation. This is, I believe, not fair, because it makes sense and is necessary to help the countries of Eastern Europe, but on the other hand, it is also necessary to help the Third World countries in the context of development cooperation to build up their prosperity and their economy accordingly. I regret that we have a downward trend. This shows a numerical comparison of the total ODA expenditure: In 1995, it was still 7.73 billion schilling, in 1996 it was 5.9 billion schilling, and expenditure continued to decline. Or: The share of gross domestic product of earlier 0.33 percent has now fallen to 0.24 percent. With this, Mrs State Secretary, we are still very much below the average of the European Union. This means that we are far from reaching OECD directives that propose to the rich countries, as Austria is, to spend about 0.7% of the gross domestic product on development cooperation. I regret this development, and I hope that we will be able to put new emphasis on this in the future, because one thing has already been done by this Parliament, namely to settle the question of the debt of the Third World countries in a very fair and very clear and quite generous way. It has been a success of Parliament that the debt originally intended by the Federal Government could be expanded from 1 billion schilling to 1.7 billion schilling. That is why I now appeal to the Secretary of State and also to the Foreign Minister that we actually implement this Parliament's decision very quickly, that we should very quickly signal the developing countries that they no longer have to repay these loans. The countries concerned need a margin in their budgets to put in place educational measures in their countries, and I also believe that we should not set new restrictions and restrictions in this implementation. In this context, I can only remind you of the term 'good governance'. I believe that we should give the countries of the Third World an independent way and accept it. Just as we take our independent political and cultural development, these countries should also have the opportunity to develop themselves on the basis of their culture, their traditions into democratic, rule-of-law countries and nations. That would be a big concern to me. I hope, Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State, that you will be initiative, particularly in connection with the development policy and the debt reduction of the Third World countries, and that you will quickly take steps to ensure that this debt can be implemented immediately and immediately. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3845	I call Mr Höchtl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3867	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We see that a number of colleagues from some political groups are currently in another foreign policy action, namely an application for the 2006 Olympic Games – an action which is taking place at the same time in this House. [[reference to empty benches]] Foreign policy, we can only say, we want one of the three Austrian candidates to be one of the clear favourites and Austria will then receive the 2006 Olympic Games as the country of implementation from the International Committee. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is something we undoubtedly want without giving up a preference for one or the other candidate. For Austria, it is important for it to have this opportunity as a proven venue for Olympic Games in 2006. But now on the subject. The year 1998 is not only a year of challenge to Austrian foreign policy as we hold the presidency within the European Union for the first half of a year, but 1998 is therefore also a challenge – and Mr Vice-Chancellor has already addressed it – because this year's 50th anniversary. The Year of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will be celebrated by the United Nations. I do not think it is exaggerating when I say that Austria was really a human rights pioneer in the Second Republic, one who, without hurting others, said: Who, then, if we as God were to become a free country, should be in favour of the human rights of those peoples who are not so easily opposed to overpowerful opponents, be it their own dictatorships or dictators? – I believe that we have played this role in each case, and we will continue to fulfil this role. This is an important foreign policy task, which Austria has embodied in each case and which we will also be embodying in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This applies not only to our neighbours, but wherever human rights are trampled on. It is our job to see where such human rights violations actually take place, to observe them, to show them. The most unpleasant thing for those countries affected is that these human rights violations are being shown that the international public is being mobilized. I think this year 1998 is a very important year to take a little account: What has changed over the last few years and decades, and what remains to be done in the human rights field for the coming years? Because Mr Ofner referred to the question of the Sudeten Germans: I say very openly here, for us Austrians, the banishment that took place in 1945 was an injustice and will remain an injustice, and we always take it to mean injustice as well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was a serious human rights violation to drive over 3 million innocent people from one minute to another. And I say very openly here: For me, these Beneš decrees are an injustice that must be done in direct contact with the world. That is why my appeal to those in charge of our neighboring state to move in this direction and to let the Havelian statements and the Havelian statements become reality as well, my appeal that at last the age of lies should be forgotten in the Czech Republic and an improvement in human relations, though not in the sense of forgetting this terrible historical situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it was the Austrian commitment to human rights that led to the fact that, although many doubted, the most brutal dictatorial regimes in 1989/90 had to capitulate the most brutal human rights violations in the Eastern European countries at the end of the day. To use a statement from Tolstoi: It is important always to be aware that silence is not allowed. The silence on human rights violations is a line we will never pursue. We are there for the open pronouncement wherever it is necessary. That is the Austrian attitude, that is Austrian task. This task has just been put back to us in 1998, and we will certainly be fulfilling it in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3948	Mr Scheibner is now on the floor. 7 minutes time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3969	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I should like to follow up on the words of Mr Höchtl. He said that the expulsion of the German population after the Second World War in much of Europe was an injustice, and this must always be pointed out. . I am perfectly right in this respect, Mr Höchtl. They also said how to do this, and the Foreign Minister also pointed out: Bilaterally, these states, the successor states of the former Communist regimes, should be moved to recognize this injustice as such. Mr Höchtl, you know as well as I do that it does not seem at present that the governments, like the Czech Republic or Slovenia, would really be willing not only to admit this injustice, but to show a minimum degree of past work by removing from the current legal systems those provisions, which in 1945 and the following years were the legal basis for these deportations, for the murder, for the torture of many hundreds of thousands of innocent people. And if you say that you should not want to go along with the question of EU accession, I must tell you, Mr Höchtl and Mr Foreign Minister, that: I cannot imagine that we must allow a country to be included in a democratic community of states which has such illegal status, and which is illegal in the legal system in force. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This cannot really be in the sense of Austria, which takes human rights and also the representation towards the people of then and the descendants seriously. Federal Minister! I am a little skeptical about your actions in this regard. Mr Höchtl, I think we should understand that human rights are indivisible and indispensable, and we must always point this out. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Foreign Minister, if you say that Slovenia and the Czech Republic are not allowed to produce this junkim, I wonder whether the "New Volksblatt", which I think is quite close to you, is right when it says that you have spoken plain text exactly on these matters of human rights, on the issues of minority rights for a state that also wants to become a member of the European Union. It is only one thing that is not as bright in Europe as perhaps Slovenia and the Czech Republic, namely Slovakia. In Slovakia, according to this report - and you have not demented it - you have suddenly made exactly this junkim that Slovakia should not be released from the European integration process, but must take into account compliance with all of these provisions. Again: I believe that human rights are indivisible. There cannot be good states and bad states; in the good states, all of this is applied, and in the bad one points to the problems with his finger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, Mr Foreign Minister, you said one thing right: You're not supposed to wake up here. At least there's your opinion. And you have also said that the resolution in the Carinthian Landtag is a very good basis for an appropriate regulation. I also believe that this Carinthian resolution is a good basis, but I also believe that the Austrian National Council should have a clear position there. We should show that this is an important matter for us, and that is why I would like to bring in exactly this Carinthian resolution, which you have said is a very good basis for further foreign policy activities, as a motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this resolution, unanimously adopted in the Carinthian Landtag, should also be a basis for our further action in the National Council. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! A few comments on the issue of security policy. We have repeatedly criticized the fact that there is no clear line, and this is not only so bad because it is an important foundation of every state in security policy, but also because there is a lot of confusion about us. A new security architecture will be built. Unfortunately, we stand by, observe, give good tips, as it has been today, but have not yet decided to enter the existing security organizations fully with all rights and obligations. You, too, once said: Don't jump over to the NATO bassin, the NATO question doesn't matter. Then you said again that a NATO decision should possibly be made quickly. . I hope that at least the current announcements will be valid, that the option report will continue in 1998, in the first half of 1998, to take the principle decision on the further orientation of Austrian security policy. Mr Schieder said that Austria should also have an equal participation in development in European security policy. He also meant that one should not wait for the only superpower to act, namely the USA. – Perfect! Mr Cap said that Austria must participate in European security policy. - Wonderful! If all of this is true, I hope that we will soon take the necessary decisions, because we cannot say that we want to be part of the process, but we do not want to be a member in organizations such as NATO, like the Western European Union, which will undoubtedly be the basis of all future security policy developments in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! This must also be said to the public that there must be no disinformation policy that is simply uncertain. It must be said to the people that neutrality has an important historical value – it was the guarantee in 1955, the condition for our freedom – but that other systems and structures are now necessary when it comes to building the future security and peace order for Europe. Foreign Minister! You should not co-operate with Your Minister of Defense is always hiding behind the coalition partner, because security policy is within your area of responsibility, both in the area of national defence and in the area of the foreign sector. You have it in your hand to work on it, and I hope that you will be able to stop this pingpong game very soon in the coalition and that, at least – late, but still; unfortunately, we are already very late in deciding – after the option report and before the next National Council election, the principle decision on the accession of Austria to NATO can be made.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4088	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure and has been sufficiently supported. It shall be included in the negotiations. Mr Gusenbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4112	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Some of my previous speakers have pointed out the role of Europe in the world and the need for a stronger European appearance. This question is relevant in so far as we do not think it in the sense of the classical Metternich balance of the 19th century. Consider the century, but because it is about what values and interests Europe represents in the world or what values and interests it should represent and to what extent it can be achieved through a specific European contribution, which seems to me to be the decisive factor in international relations, namely the clarification of the fundamental question: Does the right of the stronger one apply or the strength of the right? That is the fundamental question of international relations! [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Wabl.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But if the right is behind the stronger, it will probably be good!]] There is, of course, a lot to do for Europe, because there is also a hidden agenda behind many transactions. I therefore believe that, on this very day of the Middle East, especially in Iraq, we are very much in crisis and that a further military intervention is being debated by the United States, we cannot pass this question on the occasion of an external policy debate on the budget, because this situation is a very massive threat to the whole region. In this context, we must also consider: There has been the Gulf War, Iraq has been defeated, Saddam Hussein as dictator is still in power – obviously not in question by the winners of the war, because one seems to be interested in the fact that Iraq does not fall into several parts, because one assumes that this brings even more instability. But, of course, the consequence - linked to the sanctions - was that there is a suffering part of it, and this has been the Iraqi population for years, which does not have proper nutrition, medicines and so on. And the question that arises now that mutual provocation appears to occur again is as follows: Is it possible to change the situation in a new military strike, which is obviously being put into the calculation, in principle? And my opinion is: A renewed military blow will not change the basic problem in the Middle East and Iraq's fundamental problem. Thus, continuing warfare – including in response to provocation – will not fundamentally change the situation. We have to ask ourselves whether, if a matter seems to be resolved in military terms, real peace has been achieved. We must ask ourselves the same question with regard to the former Yugoslavia. Dayton's agreement is celebrated over and over again. Of course it is preferable for us to stop shooting there, but one must also be clear: Dayton was only possible at the time when the main war participants had achieved their central war goals and unfortunately exactly what they had been trying to prevent for years, namely ethnic cleansing. And everyone knows: As soon as the international troops withdraw there, it will start from the front. This means that the structural conditions for peace have not yet been created, for otherwise the presence of international troops would not be necessary. I therefore warn against believing that, once a question has been resolved in the military, and that the weapons have been silenced, peace has already been created at the same time. Unfortunately, this is by far not the case, as can be seen from a number of examples. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Mock.]] A second point, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: Mr Moser spoke about development cooperation and, as chairman of the Subcommittee, I naturally feel obliged to say something about it – I am happy to do it too. Despite the limited resources available to us, Parliament, together with the Government, has tried to put emphasis on the fact that, in addition to what we are doing multilaterally and bilaterally, we have improved the quality of our development cooperation, I believe, that we have taken a good step here in Parliament with the debunking of development credits for a number of developing countries and that, in addition, we have also taken a debate on the impact of our development cooperation on development in each country and whether the jointly agreed objectives with the partner countries are also fulfilled. I think this debate in Parliament was very exciting, and I expect that, together with the government, the necessary consequences for future agreements will also be drawn out of this discussion. I am going because the Secretary of State was recently in Rwanda and had talks in Kigali and could be re-entered in the circle of those countries, or at least we are thinking about, with which we are cooperating, of course, assuming that there will be an intensive debate in Parliament on this issue, because, indeed, the determination of priority countries before that was discussed very intensively with Parliament. If Rwanda were to return, I think it would be urgently necessary to hold a parliamentary debate. Let me make a third brief comment on the subject of foreign policy. Much has been said about Easter enlargement today, and the view of many of the concrete steps that have been defined here, too many of the problem areas that are to be worked out, I share, but one must be clear to us: If the European Union has succeeded in overcoming the contradictions of the Second World War, then the great question for Europe today is whether we are also able to overcome peacefully the contradictions that the Cold War has brought with it. And, of course, the question of the enlargement of the European Union is one of the key issues for the future development of Europe, for peace and for Europe's security, because this European Union's approach to peace over the past decades has been much more successful than one-sided military security concepts. – And we should also confess to all the problems we see.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4164	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4185	Mr President. High house! Mr Khol is sitting here, and I am glad that at least one of the South Tyrol speakers is listening, because it is unfortunately the case that no more group is addressing the issue of South Tyrol in the course of the budget debate on the external chapter. [[Abg. Wabl: Talk about the Carinthian Slovenians!]] This has always been a tradition, and I believe it gives a significant light to how the view on the role of South Tyrol's defence power is currently in the remaining parliamentary groups. In view of the paralytic activities and the few debates that have taken place in South Tyrol in this House, it should be believed that there is nothing but joy, everything in butter and really everything in order. That is the most thanks to God, and we are all happy together, but there are very subjects that would have deserved to be addressed by the protective power of Austria or stressed a little. One of these things is the sad thing about the South Tyrol activists we have been addressing here for years. We have been hoping for a final solution for years before the problem of the South Tyrol activists is brought about by a biological solution. It is true that, in response to a request to the Foreign Minister, we have received an indication that jurisdiction on this issue lies with the Italian President. It was also known to us, Mr Minister, that we would only have liked to have clear answers to what is being put in this direction by your side, in order to enable the President - in the short time since I was in Parliament, the third President has already been concerned with these things - to carry out his instructions and signs which he has already given in several areas, for example at the meeting in Alpbach, where the heads of state of Durnwalder and Weingartner met with Klastil and the Italian President on the other hand. Then the meeting with Klestil was in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: His name is Scalfaro!]] Yeah, Scalfaro was. However, it is still true that for 14 people with Austrian citizenship who were sentenced to imprisonment in Italy in the 1960s because of South Tyrol activities, in the absence of them in Italy, these prison sentences are still valid. Although the international arrest was discontinued in January 1993, in the event of an entry into Italy the detention would still be threatened. Above all, at a time when one has promised particularly in Tyrol that the united Europe would eliminate the problem of the border between South Tyrol and North Tyrol and that this illegal border would be virtually out of sight, it is really questionable that it must still be questionable that these 14 people are at risk of imprisonment. I mean, there would really be a beautiful gesture in the sign of the united Europe. I believe that it is urgently necessary to set up activities from our side and to address that it is here at last to this... [[Abg. Wabl: In Ebergassing they are murderers and terrorists, in South Tyrol they are activists worthy of grace!]] Please? [[Abg. Wabl: In South Tyrol it is activists and giftworthy, in Austria it is murderers and terrorists, namely at Ebergassing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's a difference!]] This is a little different, Mr President. Above all, this is a little longer than the thing in Ebergassing. There are other reasons behind that. To compare the ebergassing thing with the South Tyrol activists alone is scandalous. [[Abg. Wabl: In South Tyrol there are honorable people, in Ebergassing they are murderers and terrorists!]] It is scandalous to you to compare the situation in Ebergassing with the events in South Tyrol and the motivations of the South Tyrol activists in the 1960s. That's all I want to say, Mr. Wabl. This probably only indicates that you have neither feelings nor knowledge on this question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's right!]] The second point, which would be addressed and which is more up-to-date, is the topic of name, the toponomastics. We know that the name of the place bears the stamp of the fascist era, that this name was born at a time when law and democracy were really trampled on in Italy, i.e. the bilingual name scheme, the German one on the one hand and the Italian on the other. The South Tyroleans alone have the right to remove this injustice and not to accept it. There have been years of negotiations with regard to local names, Mr Federal Minister, and we know very well that radical demands are certainly not appropriate in this matter, that we must negotiate this in peace. But what the Italians are asking is a radical insistence on an injustice that comes from a fascist time, and one is really not ready to talk on this question. All the less we understand the attitude of the Austrian ambassador in Rome, Günter Birbaum, who recently announced his position on this question on a visit to South Tyrol. He clearly represents the Italian position on this question. He says: We don't have a problem with South Tyrol anymore. There is in fact nothing to do in the field of toponomics for Austria, because one can only intervene through the Paris Treaty, and in it the bilinguality is anchored. Thus it is likely to be deduced from the letters of the law, and the Italian judicial system, in the meantime, is interfering with this debate through the investigating judge Mori with exactly the same reasoning. That is where our Ambassador Birbaum would have a very different role to play as a representative of the Protection Force in Austria or actually act as a protective force and represent the South Tyrolean interests towards the Italians, and not the other way round, as he did. That is really to be rejected. The question of bilingualism should not be underestimated either. There are two important points. My speaking time is coming to an end, but I would like to give you an example. Despite implementing rules and despite the status of autonomy, it has not been possible, for example, to market medicinal products in bilingual versions in South Tyrol. The pharmaceutical industry in Italy continues to refuse to accept this right of South Tyrol. But this is associated with consequences. If a German-speaking South Tyrol or Latin-speaking South Tyrol does not correctly understand this Italian-language sideboard, it could lead to a wrong use, which in turn could limit the health of the person concerned. This example of life alone shows the importance of this clear solution to bilingualism, and we as a defence force in Austria would be required to support this legitimate demand by the German and the Ladin national groups and to demonstrate it accordingly by you, Mr Federal Minister, in Italy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4323	Mrs Tichy-Schreder is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4345	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The chapter on foreign policy naturally leads everyone to discuss their own wishes and ideas in various areas. In particular, with regard to the liberals, I have noticed that the first speaker, Mr Bauer, has practically only dealt with the euro, then Mr Ofner has brought his subjects to Slovenia and Slovakia, Mr Scheibner has followed up and brought his subject of security policy, NATO and Mr Meischberger to South Tyrol. Thank God, ladies and gentlemen, foreign policy is a little further. However, I would like to refer to the Scheibner report, which here in the House has tabled a motion for a resolution on the request made by the Carinthian Government to the Federal Government, and one that has already been put forward: They have heard from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Vice-Presidents that he supports the concerns of the Carinthian Government, including them in the considerations and that this catalogue is a good basis for further negotiation. Only, Mr Scheibner – excuse me, you are not yet, you are still in study – something cannot be done: If we talk about the enlargement of the European Union, we cannot now take out a country and bring a resolution or a proposal from a federal state into Parliament and see it as the result of foreign policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that's very thin what you're saying now! Just because you don't like it!]] That's not right in the relationships. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Minister himself has said that the application is a good basis!]] It is not only one country, i.e. Slovenia, that can be taken out, but the Federal Government must deal with all the neighbouring countries when it comes to enlargement. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For this reason, Mr Scheibner, we will not vote in favour of your motion for a resolution which you are submitting here. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is your policy! Where it suits you, ask for exceptions, where you would have to show the flag, withdraw!]] He is so transparent, Mr Scheibner, we know this, and we know your statements on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to address something else. I would like to thank the Federal Minister very much for the fact that, in an agreement with the Minister for Finance, Edlinger, we have accepted the long-standing demand or wish of the ambassadors' women abroad, namely that they now also have a social security and, later, a guarantee, because the women of the ambassadors have no opportunity to pursue employment abroad. However, it is also very important, Mr Scheibner, to highlight the task of fulfilling the spouses of our ambassadors. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is typical: praise first and then vote against it!]] This is a particularly important contribution they make, and this is also recognised. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But I would also like to talk about something that Mrs Gredler has said. It has set an example in its actual correction, which shows that it did not actually understand the Foreign Minister. It is about taking people who take a critical position on Easter enlargement and on how fast or how slow it is to go, not the word "enemy". It has not correctly covered this concept in its actual correction. I am sorry that she is not here right now, but I know that the Liberal Forum now has other tasks than to pursue this debate. [[Abg. May. Peter: Am I not enough for you?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mag. Peter! I feel it is very important for us to play a role as a mediator next year when we take up the Presidency of the European Union, especially, as Mr Vice-Chancellor said. In this regard, I can say that our foreign minister at international level, not only in the European Union, but also in our neighbouring countries at various levels of government, enjoys an excellent reputation and excellent confidence. [[Abg. Young: Do you think about the breakfast of Amsterdam?]] All over the world, Mr Jung, no matter where I come from, my best greetings and recommendations to the Foreign Minister are given to me as thanks for understanding the concerns of the individual states and also bringing them into the European Union. This is a good condition and a good basis for the Presidency in the European Union, which we will hold in the second half of next year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That we also carry out this function in countries which, as Mr Moser complained, are directly involved in the first round of the candidate countries to join the European Union, which is explicitly related to Slovakia with regard to our neighbouring countries, proves that we can have a good relationship with neighbouring countries, but must nevertheless draw attention to what steps and measures they should take if they want to go to the European Union in order to accompany them along this path. Austria, which, as a small country, has established accession to the European Union, is a model for these countries in terms of the way they have gone politically and economically. And we can still develop this role model by telling these countries how the path will continue in the future and giving them assistance. This trust provides a good basis for our foreign policy for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4476	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4497	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would not have been able to speak if today I could not have experienced such wonderful statements and statements by the colleagues of the Social Democrats; on the one hand, I would say to those of Mr Schieder, who, in my opinion, spoke a very state-bearing – in the best sense of the word – and who, on the other hand, formulated an offensive development in connection with a peace policy that does not mean this chromblitious, missile-assembled NATO train, in whose leadership our most beautiful and very best President of the Western Hemisphere, Bill Clinton, sits. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore think that this contribution is so necessary because, obviously, after the destruction of the Warsaw Pact, we have become a strange NATO euphoria, which most or many here in this House think only this one option would exist. Fortunately, the circumstances that have occurred over the past few weeks and months have been such – this is also a bit the comic of history – that Minister Fassleven and Minister Schüssel have taken a step back on this issue. Nevertheless, Mr Schieder, I would ask you to agree with your colleagues. I know that a large party has even greater difficulties in voting the versatility as a small party, but today I have had to hear three foreign-political speeches - from you the state-bearing, Mr Gusenbauer's left and Mr Cap's right - that was a very interesting performance for parliamentarianism, but for a government party that should provide a clear political line, this is perhaps a little problematic. But that does not say anything about the quality or non-quality of the individual contributions. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a very brief look at the comments made by Mr Meischberger, who wanted to have the South Tyrol activists generously. I also believe that people who have had ideals and goals and who have believed in a blinding and possibly in a socialization with confusion may be able to bombard what they want, have the right to be once again accepted as normal citizens – with all rights and obligations. But what I do not understand is that you only have an understanding of those people who are closer to your mental attitude – I do not say this in Polish, Mr Khol – your goals are closer. There are more kind words, more understanding words. [[Abg. Ellwall: You too!]] The Greens, Mr Khol, have no understanding at all of the choice of resources, namely violence. That is why we always have these heated discussions, because temptation is often very great in wanting to achieve goals and visions with military or violent means. Mr Khol! I have therefore intervened because there seems to be no doubt about ebergassing in you. But there were also bombs in the game, laid by people who believed they could realize their ideals. Whatever that is, how obscene how crazy they may be: It was people, Austrian citizens, and I think it is inappropriate that you think that this would be quite different just because it does not correspond to your ideology and goals. These people have sprung a power grid and killed themselves. The South Tyrol activists have laid bombs to bring about something that also represents you ideologically. That is just as to refuse! This has been a little longer, but we want to talk about these people as much as people who have made a big mistake, who have chosen the means of violence, which is absolutely unacceptable. That was always the green position and will always stay! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Today, Minister Schüssel has quite ruled out the NATO question. I understand. The colleague, Mr Pollet-Kammerlander, has traced this back to his diplomatic Fauxpas in Amsterdam, and it certainly has to do with the fact that the SPÖ has succeeded in restricting this offensive strategy of the ÖVP. But I don't want to go closer to that now. I would just like to say that his attitude on the Slovenian question was very wise and, in my opinion, very balanced. Only on this question would I ask for one thing – that at the address of the liberals, especially Mr Ofner: It is true that the people who have been expelled after the Second World War have been wronged, it is also true that this cynicism is absolutely incomprehensible and inappropriate from the Slovenian side. But it is also true that within Austria we have the greatest difficulties in dealing with the minorities that have been expelled from our side, where our side of history is shadowed. Just think about the problem in Styria. Think of this strange environment that was created in the Styria and that people who thought they could no longer express themselves wanted to bring about political change in this way, such as Franz Fuchs, for example. This is a climate, an environment which is very common in the border regions and which we must show special sensitivity. What is happening a few meters further south, in Carinthia, where Mr. Landeshauptmann's deputy Grasser – who once meant that one should not promote those companies that work for foreigners, namely Slovenians and Italians – for the holding of Olympic Games in this region, I think is a process that is smarter than the previous, this incredible, uneconomic and simple proposal. But there is something going on, and you should talk about it with the same clarity and clarity, ladies and gentlemen, as you do in your partying for people who live in other countries. Ladies and gentlemen! Another sentence on Mr Höchtl, who meant that human rights issues should not be silenced. – I know he even made a trip to Turkey, but he didn’t notice that he had bravely moved forward the Kurdish question – no, it was in Turkey; but it was in North Korea too – so he didn’t notice that he had done the Kurdish question with great courage. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: North Korea!]] I would also have liked to hear a few sentences from Mr Schüssel. How does he actually see the fact that a NATO country is waging war? – In this great "peace alliance" of NATO countries, a country is waging war, with regular troops, with regular missions, with regular extermination scenarios. Whole villages are destroyed. You even station troops in another country. How is this seen by the Foreign Minister? Or does it command the diplomatic fineness or the diplomatic courtesy of not talking about it? As long as this kind of discussion... [[Abg. Scheibner: What is NATO supposed to do?! Do you want NATO troops in Turkey?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Scheibner. I know you rarely mention this page when you sit so euphorically with Mr Lichal and finish your deliberations. But I think you should take note of the fact that we are not dealing with a peace alliance, but with a military pact. And within this military pact there are also opportunities that are obviously tolerated by you. Now you can play different roles as an opposition. But the Minister should clearly take a position on this. This would be a solid contribution to an active peace policy, to a further development within the meaning of Mr Schieder, in the sense of a peace policy that Austria could make in the best of tradition and with which Austria could also rise internationally. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Schiederer has already said, I now come back to the real issue, which, in my opinion, is most concerned with Austria at the moment, namely: NATO accession, yes or no? Is there another option? . I would like us to have a very sensitive, balanced discussion on this difficult issue, in the sense of the contributions made by the Social Democrats, but also in the sense of the contributions made by other parties. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it is the task of policy and the task of the government to ask the sovereign the crucial question in such an important constitutional matter: What do the people want, what do the citizens want, and I would like this question to be asked relatively soon. I think that this opportunistic process of social democracy is a very dangerous one to postpone this vote until the 1999 election year, because this may be exactly what you do not want, Mr Schieder. On the one hand, excellent coalitions between ÖVP and FPÖ are being closed in all events – I have been allowed to follow this more often in the past – and on the other hand, there is a reticent, presumptuous to passive attitude of social democracy as well as an attitude of the Greens, which is recognized as the position of a party that is weak, which has only 5 percent of the votes, no longer and no less – sometimes less, sometimes more. This is very dangerous, however, because this could give the Austrian population the impression: It's nothing more to do, it's nothing more to do, the train is driving and driving and driving. The same is true of those speakers who always send the ÖVP to such events: There's a train, and there's nothing far and wide. There is no companion, no new option and no recognizable foreign policy in the sense that you, Mr Schieder, have outlined them. I think this is very dangerous, because on the one hand, Mr Scheibner, there is the "Kronen Zeitung", which I can say today, for example, that I was in the Stalin framework, that I was trained at Fidel Castro, and that now the oillinger coming from Communism is pushing to the top. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is the alternative?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Wabl! You immunize these things!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Oillinger has been excluded from SPÖ! Really! That was the only exclusion the Kreisky has made!]] Furthermore, under the aid of Mr Khol, it is said that there are attacks on the noble face, on the noble image of Mrs Petrovic. The ÖVP is following this path at the time. I remember you getting out of here and saying, Up there, the terrorists sit! You can read that in the minutes. At the time, I was very excited about what I was not doing today, and I insulted you as a diffamer. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Khol! This is the direct hate strategy that is being made. Therefore, the procedure described is so dangerous. The one group that is small gets heated up, you can playfully go over it. To hate the Social Democrats does not even try the Social Democracy itself. Although it sometimes succeeds in hurling against the One, in horrifying against the Scholten – possibly because his religion does not entirely correspond to the prophetic line of the leaf – but against an entire party, which has a percentage like yours, it is difficult to hoist. It is enough to bring down our small party, with the help of the great Khol, the South Tyrol activist and fighter. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: What's going on?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President! Actual correction!]] Mr. Schieder! We have to take a party here. [[Abg. Kiss: What is it all about? What's he talking about?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] What is this supposed to mean in this context? – Mr Cot. Schüssel! I know you see your world completely different and small, like this: There is a breakfast and there is the Lord Kurde and there is the Lord Turk and there is NATO, and then we divide this world so beautifully, and then we find a poetic saying and play a little language police in here and tell the woman Gredler not to take the word "enemy" into the mouth. This word may be in the Bible, but if the woman Gredler uses it, then the language politician will come and do so in a swissful way, how he plays the language police here! [[Abg. May. Steindl: Wabl! That's a level!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If this is Austria's foreign policy, I cannot and do not want to keep up. I would just like to ask you, Mr Commissioner and Mr Schüssel, for one thing I would like to ask you: Take note that there is an Austrian constitution and there are Austrian parties, and the diffamation that happens here in this House with the help of the ÖVP, with the help of the "Kronen-Zeitung" is a fact, Mr. Khol! That's infidelity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The members of the Social Democracy should consider what the mood is already happening here. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You want to hoist to the victim!]] [[Abg. Kiss: What is he talking about? That's crazy!]] Mr Maitz. I know you want to continue the "Kronen Zeitung" division. Perhaps you should go to Mr Morak and to Mr Rasinger to properly assess the word "cultor". The "Kronen Zeitung" knows that. She does not write "Deputy Wabl", but "Deputy W." in order to indicate the nearness of the perpetrator, in a matter which is completely harmless and meaningless, but which was inflated by your group and then brought to the "Kronen Zeitung". This is quite clearly the case of hatred, and I say to you that you have cooperated, and you have contributed to it. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Wirres Geschätz!]] Mr Maitz. You don't know that. Talk to your colleagues who were in our club to check what they did. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kröll.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know, in your eyes, of course, this is completely confused. But I know what's really crazy: When the "Kronen Zeitung" on Sunday titled "Psychowarm with the Greens" and Mr. Khol delivers the ammunition for it. That's crazy, it's unbearable in the state politics! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is unacceptable in a party sitting in the government, and it will be fought by me, by the Green Group and, as I hope, by all sincere democrats, in this House and outside this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4773	Mr Dr. Khol has made a statement on an actual correction. – Deputies! Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4797	Mr President. The previous speaker spoke of aid to my person and my group in connection with an article that was obviously published in the "Kronen Zeitung" today. He also referred to another article of the "Kronen Zeitung" – apparently the one from the last Sunday in connection with a lubrication action. [[Abg. Wabl: You're defaming again!]] This is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4837	Mr Wabl! Please let Member talk to Dr. Khol now!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4889	No aid has been granted for injury. There is no aid to this article, and my group has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4920	Mrs Dr Karlsson came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4941	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to return to the external budget items, regardless of "Kronen-Zeitung" and other articles, and comment on four points that seem important to me. First point: Another dimension of our European policy, which today has special topicality, is the European dimension of equality between men and women. I do not want to mention them because I believe that there is something against the government side, but because this area should be mentioned in principle. As a result of the changed political situation since the Amsterdam Summit, the ECJ has now found that it is EU-compliant to allow specific women's promotion programmes. This is also provided for in an amendment to the EU Treaty and, as I believe, as a result of the slowing down of the ratification treaty, will be a dimension in addition to the Ministerial Conference, which will take place in our Presidency. As far as the larger Europe is concerned, women's minister Prammer has today gone to a conference in Istanbul to discuss the issues of equality that concern the Council of Europe. Second point: Mr Spindelegger raised a question at the beginning of the debate, which is particularly important to us, namely the issue of landmines. Mr President, I should like to thank I am truly of your opinion in this regard. On this issue, we must obtain international approval. I would like to add that our position on this issue is so strong because we have settled our House internally by imposing, with four parties and overwhelming majority of this House, an internal-Austrian ban on the production of these weapons, the anti-personnel mines. Third point: Middle East. Mr Gusenbauer has referred to Iraq. However, I would like to point out that the concern we have about this conflict and the various points of view in this regard must not be forgotten, too, of the alarming conflict with regard to the situation of the Palestinians. If, for example, we see the point by point of the assurances given to the Palestinians who have been waiting for their rights for many years, are now being abstained from them again and, as with this, the position of certain politicians in the Palestinian leadership is weakened, we cannot be left untouched. Austria was the hope of the Palestinians regarding the enforcement of their rights, and we should continue to play this role. It makes no sense, for example, to further undermine the position – I just want to name one name – Yassir Arafats, for he is one who spoke out very early against any violence that was ready for negotiation and that, and that seems to me today particularly important, has always been a secular state policy and has never been committed to fundamentalism. That is why I really think it is time for Austria to become active again in this peace process. This also relates to my last point, the question of human rights. Mr Höchtl has said that we should take care of this. But I mean, we should take special care of it! We need a certain amount of commitment from the civilized world to human rights! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have seen how China has succeeded in taking advantage of the differences in the interpretation of the Convention at the last meeting of the Commission on Human Rights. There are also certain difficulties in the European framework, for example, with regard to human rights violations in Turkey, as Mr Wabl has already said. There must therefore be a common approach, no matter where human rights are being violated. Economic interests must not be a priority. In order to further develop human rights, Austria, as I believe, could do something very well. I know we have discussed it in committee, but I repeat it here: It is unfortunate that, despite many small budget posts, we do not have our own budget items for the anniversary "Five Years of Human Rights Conference in Vienna" – this conference was very successful in 1993. As far as the new technologies, the information society and the human rights implications of all of this are concerned, I think Austria could very well contribute to further development. On the world scale, it is a shame that it is towards the end of the 20th century. At the end of the century, there is an environmental disaster to the extent that we have to consider the extent to which collective human rights can still be breathed without a gas mask, and which would actually be enforced on pure water. 1998 is a anniversary year. We celebrate the anniversary of the Human Rights Declaration and "Five Years of Human Rights Conference in Vienna". We should take this anniversary in terms of content and events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5016	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5038	Mr President. High house! Mr Vice-Kanzler and then Mrs Tichy-Schreder thought it necessary to interpret a statement by Mrs Gredler. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: No!]] I therefore think it necessary to state clearly and clearly: The Liberal Forum welcomes the opening of the East. We consider 1989 to be one of the most important milestones of the second half of the 20th century. ==References== We are pleased that we have new neighbors. We see the foreign policy task of Austria as bringing these newly won neighbours into the European Union. We know about the difficulties of this integration, and no one in the Liberal Forum comes up with the idea of using the term "enemy". What Mrs Gredler meant is that it would be the biggest and most serious mistake to see enemies in these newly won neighbors. This does not want the Liberal Forum, and I think it is unfortunate that both Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mrs Tichy-Schreder willfully, for the sake of the small party policy, ride around on such a statement. I hope I have finally corrected this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5073	Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5095	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The 1998 foreign policy, whose budget we will decide today, will be primarily focused on the Presidency of the European Union, which Austria will hold in the second half of 1998. The Foreign Minister has already mentioned it here: Of course, the priorities of this Austrian Presidency will be employment and the right to work, and of course there will also be environmental priorities. Austria is known as an environmental model country in the OECD series and, as I believe, has already taken a very positive role in the European Union's environmental policy as an example. A further focus will ultimately also be internal security, an issue that concerns each of us and which is important to each of us. I can assume that further efforts towards international animal welfare will develop during the Austrian Presidency. In an Austrian-Italian initiative, the Foreign Minister succeeded in bringing animal welfare into the Treaty of Amsterdam and thus taking a substantial step towards a common initiative on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to focus in the few minutes available to me but also on addressing the question of human rights on the basis of three examples, because 1998 will also be the year of human rights. In this context, I have welcomed with great pleasure the initiative of the Foreign Minister in the Treaty of Amsterdam, which has enforced the inclusion of an anti-discrimination clause for the disabled in this Treaty, which has subsequently led to national legislation. This paves the way for active anti-discrimination against disabled people and their right to a self-determined life. But we must certainly take many steps in national legislation in order to reach on this issue what the disabled people concerned understand by anti-discrimination and self-determined life. In her speech, Mrs Gredler welcomed the activities of the lobby for children. I was very happy about that. However, she said that it was a violation of Austrian foreign policy to send an ambassador to the international conference in Oslo "only". . I would like to make a clear statement against this discrimination against an ambassador who is an extraordinary and authorised minister abroad, and I believe that it is very important what is happening there. If the Foreign Minister had to go to every international conference, he would probably never be able to see it here in Parliament, Mrs Deputies. I think it is important that what has happened at this conference is that Austria has succeeded in putting in place an appropriate initiative to convert ILO funds for projects against child labour. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since the light is already starting to flash, I would just like to return to the right to safety very briefly and refer to the initiative in the field of anti-personnel mines. This question has been solved at national level – and this has already been said by Mrs Karlsson – as an example, but in the end a national law on this issue can only be very modest. Even more important is the foreign policy initiative. It is particularly thanks to the Austrian Foreign Minister and his officials that many steps have already been taken in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the basis of this Austrian decision and on the Austrian initiative, the joint action of the European Union came on 1 January. In October 1996, a text for the total ban on anti-personnel mines was consulted bilaterally twice worldwide. Of course, it has also contributed significantly to lobbying that an international expert conference took place in Vienna in February 1997, in which 111 countries took part, and that an international lobbying for the Ottawa conference is currently taking place in December 1997, which hopes that more than 100 countries will sign this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe, however, that this initiative will only succeed if we also succeed in convincing the producer countries, namely China and the Russian Federation, that this total ban on anti-personnel mines is also taking effect. I think it is also important to offer Austrian aid, for example in the mining and training of deminers. It was finally an Austrian company, the company Schiebel, which developed excellent equipment for this. I believe that this initiative is an excellent example of how a small country like Austria can achieve a great deal internationally with the intensive commitment of its Foreign Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5183	Before giving the floor to Mrs Jäger as the last speaker in this debate, I would like to say the following: I have just made sure, on the basis of the Minutes, that in the course of this debate, Mr Wabl, in the direction of Mr Dr. Khol, has used the following wording: "You immaculate diffamier!"and the Bureau and me apostrophic, he continued: "If he's lying, I'll be able to make an intermediate call!". Mr Wabl! I give you a call for order for these wordings. Mrs Jäger has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5230	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Indian economist Vandana Shiva has made the statement that our world only has the future when three economies hold the balance: first, the economy of ecology, that is, the natural cycles, the conservation of nature, second, the economy of life, these are the living conditions and all that has to do with the education of children, with old-age care and so on, and thirdly, the economy of the market. It also says that this economy of the market is currently expanding at the expense of the other two economies. As far as the economy of ecology is concerned, it must be noted that the last climate conference has shown that the oil lobbyists in the USA have regained their position against the voice of reason. I also see the dam project at Yangtsekiang as a problem for the last natural reserves. The economy of living conditions. The 1997 United Nations poverty report clearly shows that the eradication of poverty is an achievable project and that some countries have already made great progress. For example, China and 14 other countries have been able to reduce poverty by half in less than 20 years. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore a scandal that, on the one hand, wealth increases, the number of billionaires and billionaires is rising – for example, the number of billiards has increased from 157 to 447 from 1989 to 1996, while on the other hand, poverty is actually increasing alarmingly. It is important to fight this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As a threat, I also feel the increase in poverty in Eastern Europe. Between 1989 and 1997, poverty in Eastern Europe increased by 25 percent. Developments can be observed there as in Latin America. I think that the people of Eastern Europe have expected something different from the free market economy. They have expected above all fairer living conditions. This development in Eastern Europe clearly shows that social compensation only works if state structures create such compensation. And this is important for our debate, because if we fail to put the issue of poverty reduction at the centre of this debate in times of EU enlargement, then enlargement will not succeed to the extent that we imagine it to be. This means that attention must be paid to increasing social and environmental standards in Eastern Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Minister mentioned that development cooperation is also a very important area for the EU. In general, however, it has to be found that this is in decline worldwide. That is to say, the OECD countries have fallen to 0.25% of GDP, and that is the lowest level since 1950. It is now clear to me that it is not only the development cooperation that causes the fight against poverty in the countries of the south, but also the economic and trade relations with these countries must be given greater attention. And also in this The EU is once again required. Real commodity prices in the 1990s are 45 percent lower than in the 1980s. It is also true that the export of subsidized agricultural products from the EU to developing countries makes agricultural production more difficult. The NGOs' reality-of-aid report shows the economic problems that there have been in subsidising bulls with 10 000 s per piece from the EU. There has only been a discussion on animal torture. But that has another dimension. The import of this cheap beef has resulted in 95 percent of the EU's annual aid for South Africa for the South African economy. It is precisely in the course of the Lomé Convention that we must pay great attention to this issue. And I think that if the European Union does not manage to restrict agricultural subsidies for the agricultural market, it will not be possible, in the case of Eastern Europe or in the course of development cooperation, to create fair global trade relations and also fair conditions for people in the south. In this sense, I think that an important requirement is the reforming, democratisation of the European Parliament and also the reforming of the structures within Europe, so to speak, in order to be able to establish a fair trade relationship worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5303	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not want a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I would ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the Advisory Group III of the Federal Estimate for 1998. This includes Chapter 20 of the Federal Estimate in 841 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this in order to have a positive sign. - That's the majority. This Advisory Group has been adopted. In the sense of § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I suggest that the vote on the motion for a resolution introduced in this debate be taken immediately. On the other hand, is there any objection? – I assume that there is no objection, so we are doing so. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: No one is raised!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Nobody's being raised!]] I shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the clarification of the open problems between Slovenia and Austria before the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not even the shark is for this! – Main, Haider and Stadler are not for this!]] Advisory Group IX Chapter 63: Trade, trade, industry, tourism Chapter 64: Constructions and technology (including business plan)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5383	We are now negotiating the IX Advisory Group on Economic Affairs. There was also no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. I am the first speaker to give Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn's word. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5415	Mr President. Minister! High house! If we talk about economic policy in this House from the point of view of the opposition, then the parliamentary seats of the government parties are about as empty as the budget is when we are looking for economic impulses in this budget, Minister! – The business speaker is on the floor, and your Members are gone, Mrs Fekter! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Where's the shark?]] [[Abg. Dkfm. We're here! Haider's not here!]] At a time when unemployment is rising and the economic impulse is missing, Mrs Fekter... – Goods Have you ever been a Minister for Economic Affairs or Secretary of State? - I don't remember now. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I wasn't a minister!]] This reminds me of a house builder who moves into his house in the autumn and comes to realize that there is no heating, and then covers the roof. So similar is the chapter on the economy in this budget, Mrs Fekter! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this budgetary policy is like the cooperative policy: stop from holes to holes. We read it daily in the newspapers. And I have to tell you, Minister – I hope you are not angry with me – that: I said at the outset that your experience in the dairy fund may not have a positive impact on the private sector. But that it has such an impact on the dairy sector, I would not have expected it. Because the billions of losses we are currently having are roughly in line with our budget deficit. Ladies and gentlemen! There can be no mention of budgetary reorganisation at all. And I would like to take a look at the past few years, i.e. after 1990. Public expenditure and levies increased by 57 percent and 53 percent respectively. GDP rose by 43 percent. All those who work in the private sector know what that means. This means that the company's turnover has increased less than the taxes and the administrative costs. If we had done so in the economy, then I can only say that there would be no private economy today. But that's how the budget looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since 1995, when the issue was already very critical, taxes have increased by 15 percent, expenditure by 10 percent and GDP by only 9 percent. So you didn't learn anything from the first half of the nineties. From 1990 to 1995, the tax rate increased from 40.9% to 43.8 percent. It is interesting to note that 75 percent have come from tax increases and, ultimately, only one quarter have been spent on social security contributions. That's what makes you look deep. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy made this statement as It has been said that a round to the budget may be asked, the opposition has a round, but after this it is over. Then, in principle, the plauding hour of the Minister begins, and then there is nothing more to say from the point of view of the economy to the budget. Get out! End of the debate! Debates are not to be held, if so, then best here where you do not listen to the opposition. You have such debates here, but in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs you do not allow them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! For this, you have reduced public investment by 27 percent in the budget, bringing it to an all-time-low level. And that is what you call employment and economic promotion! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have a structural budget deficit of 2.5 per cent to 3 per cent, ladies and gentlemen! With the first business day, you can no longer reach the Maastricht criteria. That means you don't have economic impulses, you haven't put a structural budget, but you're waiting for Godot. Nothing else you do. That is why you do not want a debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If we hold the committee and say that we are finally liberalising in Austria, we are final in competition, then you say that you are the great competitive guardian in Brussels. They'll take off the cartels. – Brussels forces us to abolish the cartel. They're not gonna do anything. At best they do jobs with this budget, but nothing else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We talk about the chapter on research and development for years and say: Look It's in other countries! What about research and development? – Saying about that They are all serious in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy: International comparisons are not targeted. I thought I was dreaming. So, what's targeting? They ask in the same Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs: Where do we actually bring our research and development funds? - This one doesn't need anyone in Austria, we don't have a demand. – Minister! Go to Kundl's biochemistry. Go to Director Leitner and ask him how much the company Novartis in Europe claims research and development funds, how much she gets and how much she does not get in Austria. He says that we are final in the allocation of research and development funds. Go to Director Leitner, and don't spend any time in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I understand, of course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] If you always work in the protected area, ladies and gentlemen, and if the chamber officials give their hand as ministers of the economy, you must not be surprised. I understand. Therefore, You probably do not start with the word "globalisation", although I would trust you intellectually, Minister. But somehow you have a barrier here, and the visits to the trade delegates are of no use either. But we are talking about the burden on labour costs. They say that the burden on labour costs is actually not a problem. The burden on labour costs is therefore not a problem because unit labour costs are important. You act as if there were no services in the whole area, although you said a year ago, Austria is a developing country as a service market. That's what I thought, look, the minister finally calls the child by name. And now you water everything again by saying that the burden of labour costs is not the criterion, but it is the unit labour costs. I have to tell you: You haven't recognized the signs of the time again. And as a result of the third minister, who allows labour costs to rise constantly, you have not, in fact, shown any signs of how to reduce them in recent months. In this committee, Mr. Minister, you will also say: The bureaucracy has gone back. Imagine that the operating permits now only last more than three months. The "young economy" – I think this is close to the ÖVP, if I am properly informed – has made a preparation, and in this preparation the duration of authorisation procedures has been applied to the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You even heard!]] In the Styria it takes 304 days; if I can count correctly, that's ten months and not three. The best countries, Upper Austria and Salzburg, have five months. Minister! Call the child by name! [[Abg. Zweytick: This has been a long time ago, Mr. Colleague!]] Don't beautify yourself all the time! Otherwise, they will only prevent the rethinking process and will not be an operator. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then say to the E-Economie, where nothing goes on... [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Everything you sleep!]] Mr. Chamber Officer Puttinger! The location disadvantages in Austria are actually the reason why... – With this trade order you can hide, which you can reform again next year, I can tell you that. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We have a business order! They're sleeping everything!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The location disadvantages of the e-business are probably the biggest joke. We have the highest amount of hydropower, and you're talking about location disadvantages. The site disadvantages are present because you can give your party-political functional jobs over jobs in companies until the personnel costs have reached such a level that Wifo and Mr. Breuss can no longer return and say that 15 to 20 billion schillings have to be saved, otherwise the energy companies in Austria will be able to register bankruptcy. He writes that in the reports, and you say our disadvantage is our location, although we have so much water. But it is not much different for small and medium-sized enterprises. They will experience that we will have enormous problems for small and medium-sized enterprises precisely because of this development in the energy sector, because, unlike the large ones, they cannot help themselves and, of course, they will have to pay the bill. In the final effect, it's the same thing with the household as with the phone. That's what I'm at the next point. Minister! You have actually done nothing to help your colleague One in the Ministry of Transport to get the jumps in Telekom's privatisation. It would have been at least your task to show you not only to the pro-priority government towards Räson, but also to represent economic interests and to help your Minister to avoid such a collective reform as it is now. On the other hand, a privatisation by your predecessor Ditz will also be suppressed, so that the post as far as possible remains the same as it is. Most importantly, the private take away the letters and packages so that this form of privatisation takes place. We're sending 8,000 posters to the early retirement or moving 114 billion schilling debts in the post forever before us because nothing is privatized. What are the consequences? – The service sector, which you have always scoffed at, just on the Telekom sector, is a stepchild in Austria. There would have been a potential for growth for the labour force for years, but you do not want to take note of that either. Minister! When you did, you said you didn't want to be anything. The only thing you want is to leave traces. I have to tell you that traces have left you. You've succeeded. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Swirl up dust!]] Finally, we are in terms of growth, taxes are rising from month to month, we are coming from one highest level to another, we have deteriorated in international competitive positions, and unemployment is increasing. I said at your start, a man with your experience is the worst choice. Maybe it was very direct, maybe it wasn't very friendly, but it was very right. Perhaps you should ultimately draw the consequences from this correctness, because I believe that even the greatest skeptics of your person have not expected such a development and such a budget in 1998 from the point of view of the economic chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5615	Mr Sauer referred to an actual correction. Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5648	Mr President. Mr Prinzhorn has claimed that the dairy fund has been in a lot of deficit in recent times. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Dairy Fund!]] I'm actually correcting: There has been no more dairy funds in recent years and therefore no deficit can be achieved. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Dairy Fund!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] I would ask you to read this in the Minutes, Mr Prinzhorn.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5704	Mrs Tichy-Schreder has now been reported to speak. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5726	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ludwig Erhard once said that the economy is 50 percent from psychology. Mr Prinzhorn should not have done so, because if his ideas were real, then the economy would be disastrous and Austria would be a terrible country. Mr Principal! ==References== In April 1996, the government announced that it would flee in new elections at the latest in 1997. Soon the year 1997 is over – there is no talk of new elections! But I would not just like to say anything to you, Mr Prinzhorn, but in general to the opposition parties. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I believe you do not want to vote! That has a clear reason!]] I am pleased that Mr Dr. Haselsteiner has just arrived at the door, so he has some time again for the plenary. ==References== In your budget speech in March 1996, you said that the economic growth data did not at all agree that the 1997 budget was based on very wrong conditions. They have literally said that 1.6% is spoken, with a maximum of 1.2 percent, not all voting. – All of this is incorrect, Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. [[Abg. Mr Haselsteiner: I said in committee that I am capable of learning in contrast to you. A liberal learns not to be a black man! That's the problem!]] I'm glad, but you're not quite able to learn because you like to put something under, and I'm not. Assemblies are the last thing I do here, I only bring facts. However, Professor Van der Bellen also lost his forecast of economic growth and the budgetary situation. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] This clearly shows how necessary it is for the Federal Government to calculate the right data and to proceed after it, and that the economy, Mr Prinzhorn, can rely on the data of the Federal Government. One thing is quite clear: gross domestic product increased by 1.3% in 1996. In 1997, the forecast is 1.6%. In 1996, it was 1.6%, and for 1998 2.5 percent is forecast. Ladies and gentlemen! What does that lead back to? – In today’s daily newspapers, it is said that the Economic Research Institute has pointed out that this is due to the strong export development of the Austrian economy. This means, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prinzhorn, that exports increased by 31 per cent from 1993 to 1996, from 467 billion to 612 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Furthermore, Mr Mag. Peter, has doubled the number of exporters since accession to the European Union. Of course – and the Federal Government has always said that – the economic operators create jobs. That's our opinion. But the framework conditions create the government and we here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What kind of government is that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us look at the half-yearly comparison of 1997, i.e. the first half-year. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The framework conditions are missing in apprenticeship training, in this section!]] – Mr Haigermoser! You have the opportunity to speak here later. I would like to say to you, Mr Haigermoser: Exports increased by 9 percent in the first half of the year and imports by only 7 percent. This shows how strong the Austrian economy has grown! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Such speeches have not even been spoken in panic before the turn!]] Mr Haigermoser! [[Abg. Haigermoser: You should go to the house chapel and not to the speaker's desk!]] Mr Haigermoser! I know economic facts don't fit you. But maybe the following fact fits you: Mr Principal! You have addressed the company Novartis from Tyrol, and you have said that there is not enough investment in Austria. On Saturday there was the opening of a new plant with an investment of 200 million schilling. What was the reason for the election of the Austrian site, Mr Prinzhorn? – The management of the company explicitly pointed out that the site of Austria was therefore elected, because the plant law we have adopted here in the house allowed all necessary permits to be granted within three months. Secondly, it has been argued that the training of our employees is excellent, and it has also been explicitly mentioned by the management at the opening of this work, Mr Prinzhorn, that it is They may be disturbing – that the electricity price in Tyrol is so cheap, and for this reason Austria or Tyrol was chosen as a location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, it has also done something in the employment sector, contrary to the opposition's unmistakable calls. In 1986 we had 2,780 million employees, the forecast for 1997 is 3,045 million. [[Abg. Böhacker: Part-time workers are there!]] Right now we have 3.1 million. Deputies! Of course, part-time workers are also involved. [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't compare apples to pears!]] But in relation to other countries, Austria still has too little part-time workers. Mr Böhacker! They must also address the needs of the people. [[Abg. Böhacker: Part-time employment is nothing bad! But tell me the whole truth!]] Not everyone wants to be full-time employed! Another point, Mr Böhacker: As a result of the new legislation we have passed, we will increase the number of self-employed, and we will create new independent lives. This should give us the opportunity to change in the context of globalisation... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Of course, there are already the new self-employed. You know that, too, Mr Peter. Perhaps you are too often in the "White Roßl" and therefore too little with other economic operators and new self-employed, who very much welcome the fact that we are not only creating opportunities here, but also very many new jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: A nice place!]] We are still not satisfied with the unemployment rate. There is still a lot to be done in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You're sitting in the ivory tower!]] But, Mr Haselsteiner! [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You have scavengers!]] Mr Haselsteiner! I met your managing director at my last meeting. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who else did you meet?]] They were less likely to be found there. So I am not sitting in the ivory tower at all, Mr Haselsteiner. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: I don't know if I can put my managing director off your influence!]] Deputies! That's what you have to decide. But you and your board members may need my support in various discussions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am much more in business than you believe, because unlike some others I am a practicing entrepreneur, and for this reason I am not here either tomorrow. [[Abg. May. Peter: We are glad and honour you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You are also the only one in your party!]] No, no, we have some. So don't imagine that I live in the ivory tower. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What can I say with these brief comments? – I would like a sentence from our head of state Citing Wendelin Weingartner, who says: Let us consider Austrians' strengths, take advantage of our opportunities, and let us not leave our country to the pitiful and squatters of the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6012	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6034	Mr President. The "Jammerer and Zauder" Helmut Peter is on duty. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Self-knowledge is the first way to improve!]] High house! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the rosarote statistical acrobatics of my predecessor and the angry storm of Mr Prinzhorn, there has to be a middle path. I'll try to go. The clouds are shining, Minister! Thank God the clouds light up. Austria has endured long enough economic growth at the end of the European Union. We have a new dynamic in Austrian growth. Let us look forward to this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We are experiencing a development which is particularly positive in exports. We all know that, not least because of the management of structural change in industry, but above all because of the currency depreciation of schilling, it has been possible. We have become more competitive again. That's a good thing. And I understand that the Federal Government is trying to do so on account of its export offensive, which has not even taken place. But we have already discussed this in a last debate. Employment in production, however, continues to decline. And our problem is that despite economic growth, unemployment continues to rise. Madam President. I am entirely of your opinion that we must find new fields of employment, and these will be sought in small and medium-sized enterprises. But now we are seriously discussing, Madam President. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Yes!]] Especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, the selection is still very hard, the insolvency in the large industry, with large enterprises is stopped, but there are still a large number of insolvents in small and medium-sized enterprises. The framework conditions have not improved there in recent years, and this must also be acknowledged by the Minister for Economic Affairs. They have been further intensified by savings packages, by structural adjustment packages. We have not been able to benefit from the employment potential in the personal service, because the framework conditions have not been sufficient. Federal Minister! What makes me most concerned when I read your budget and follow your comments very interested and critically, is that I do not notice that you have understood it and implemented it into politics that we are at the entrance to the digital economy. The digital economy – I have translated it for you, Holger – will bring entirely new forms of business, and it will, above all, also push a variety of intermediaries, a variety of old industries out of the market. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Does the apple strudel still cost 90 s on the terrace?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have now heard the question of Mr Haigermoser. He always asks what the apple strudel costs. He offered me 90 s this time. I think we have now ended this quality of intermediate calls and are trying to continue to deal with the subject matter. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You still don't know what the apple strudel costs! I'm just interested!]] I don't really want to answer that. I'm not having fun. This digital economy will find a completely new form of economy, which we still need to politically anticipate, Minister of State, to integrate into the framework conditions we find here – new productivity, new costs, substantially new services and, above all, new productive and production forms. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are now experiencing – today and in the future – the departure of many intermediaries, whether they are the retailers in the travel agency sector or whether they are bookshops. You certainly know that today the largest car dealer in America is no longer any company with a large exhibition space, but the largest car dealer is Microsoft, who sells 20 percent of cars in America over a program on the Internet. All these are changes in the economy, but I do not see any answers in your policy, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs. I do not see you going forward in the future and promoting the change in the economy that will take place without you and with you. On the contrary, our problem is: The answers given by the Federal Government to the changes in the economy are the answers of the industrial society, the answers of the blue-collar workers. But this industrial society is under way. That's what makes me stupid, that's what's affecting me. I shall allow you to read to me twelve points from a party within the European Union, and you may advise which political party has made these twelve points the cornerstones of its modernisation and reform policy. First: We will encourage and promote entrepreneurial spirit and entrepreneurship everywhere. Secondly, We will tackle the modernisation and the overdue reforms in the economy and society quickly and decisively. Thirdly, We will work towards an effective Europe. Fourth: We will mobilise the innovative forces in science, technology, education and training. Fifth, you open a bottle We will relieve the factor of work. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Sixteenths: We will re-establish competition as a discovery process. – Hayek is quoted abroad. We don't quote Hayek. The competition as a discovery process is one of the classic theses of Friedrich August von Hayek. 7th: We will continue to modernise the public sector. Eighth: We will adapt our social security systems to the changed organization of the working world. Nineteenths: We will finance work instead of unemployment. Tenths: We will strongly support the formation of wealth for self-employed workers. Eleventh: We will ensure that more people can live on personal services. Twelfth: We will strongly support the economic potential of development, which lies in ecologically sustainable products and processes. Ladies and gentlemen! This score of 12 points comes from none other than from the Social Democrats in Germany. It is the programme decided by Prime Minister Gerhard Schröder on the German Executive Board. How many Members do the Social Democrats in Austria still have? – Two, four, six, seven in total at an economic debate, which I think is particularly revealing. These seven members of the Social Democrats were written in the main book: They've been ruling since 1970! Since 1970 you have all the power in this state! Please take this paper here and ask yourself if you need to go in opposition first, so that you are able to formulate such a paper! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is modern economic policy. That's the idea of how to find the future. Why Make You're not going to do this after a total of 27 years, which you're making the Federal Chancellor? – Compare the state of this republic on economic policy issues, on issues of economic conditions, with the modern points that German social democracy had only to find in opposition! Is it absolutely necessary for you to go into opposition first in order to formulate a reasonable economic policy? – Perhaps you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, think about it once! Mrs Tichy-Schreder referred to the new independence. It does not come from beautiful sayings and words. It is created by very clear hard facts, through very clear framework conditions that promote new independence. Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! You don't need to encourage new entrepreneurs incessantly! Stop hindering her! That's the point! [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Böhacker.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] As long as you stick to your reactionary business regulations – shop closure, bureaucracy and so on, and so on – you hinder the creation of new companies. If a post is publicly advertised today – for a freelancer, not for a productive company – the applicant must fill out 37 pages before he even comes to the tender. Today, they are installing an employee protection law that will cost more than 1.2 billion Schilling annually for those companies under 100 employees from the year 2000. You decided to do so by the Austrian People's Party – against the angry protest of the Liberal Forum. We've made an hour's worth of it. We asked you: If you are able to separate at risk from non-hazardous holdings, you will be able to do so. – We all represent the commitment to worker protection in this House. Why don't you change anything? – These are the many small building blocks that create employment. Why don't you ask yourself the question of equity formation? – There is nothing to be done if we keep talking about the Austrian economy having too little equity. Yeah, that's right. I congratulate this pult from the Austrian industry, which has now increased its equity shares from mid-sized 25, 26 percent to at least 31 percent. But where does the sum of employment take place? Where is the new growth coming from, Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs? – In SMEs, of course. If you look at the comparison figures – whether the national bank or research institutes – you notice that you have book values – I emphasize: on book values – equity situations where the median value is somewhere less than zero, the upper quarter is below 10 percent, and the lower or worst quarter works with negative equity. If you believe that the book values are wrong, if you always argue that the silent reserves are worth so much, then you agree with the liberal request – the liberals support him Thank God too, thank you very much – so that we have the opportunity, in the companies where there are actually silent reserves to represent them in equity and in addition, the interest rate of this financial equity with the secondary market return, to undergo even the Kest tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker]] Then you have a horizontal tax justice. Today, of course, every good business advisor and economic consultant must say to his client, who has a commander company, an OHG, a single company: Take all the money out of the company, and put your liquidity in government papers or elsewhere, and lubricate the 25 percent end-of-life tax. Because if you leave it in the company, you pay 50 percent for it! [[Abg. Böhacker: I don't have long anyway! That's just a matter of time!]] Minister for Economic Affairs! You'll ask me now: What does all this have to do with me? – He is talking about taxes and equity. I'm the Minister of Economic Affairs. - That's the point. This is the great misunderstanding I have in your view of your position as Minister of Economic Affairs. Dr. Farnleitner! They are responsible for a cross-sectional matter. The government is a collegial body. They bear the responsibility for all the framework conditions that we find entrepreneurs with our employees in Austria. We need an economic minister, who focuses on removing all that economics has to do in the cross-sectional matter, without tearing down the social dams, without building a society of free will, but rather a society with social responsibility, with future-oriented productivity and ecological awareness. But your job would be to have all that I now address in a short parliamentary speech in your work programme and to get out of the way. The responsibility for the quality of the economic location, for example, is expressed in Ireland. I know that Ireland is one of the Member States of the European Union who receive a lot of funding from Brussels. That's right. But can you justify this alone by the fact that in recent years – from 1994 to 1998 – Ireland has had a growth of between 6 and 10 percent? Do you know what the Irish did? – You asked: How can we invest in the economic location? "Microsoft is building Europe's headquarters in Dublin", "Telenor with new research centre, "SAP software in Ireland", "HP is increasing to 4,000 people"... – Obviously, Minister of Economic Affairs, the Irish have done something different than we have. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: 6 percent grant from GDP!]] - I know they're getting a grant. I mentioned that before. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: With this I lower my tax to 20 percent!]] The Irish have, however, made such an economic policy. They opened and said: We must allow economies to take up more taxes. – We must not overtax economies, because it does not happen then. That's the point. And you can't discuss that away. Today, in Austria, we have the highest tax and tax rate that we have ever had in the Second Republic. This is an economic climate. As Minister of Economic Affairs, you are responsible for this. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And his predecessor!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Economic Affairs – I thank you for it and congratulate you on the idea – will be held on 19 July. make a location forum in November. I hope that this location forum will bring us a great deal on the topics I've chosen. It is not possible to end a speech on the economic chapter if I stand here at the speaker's desk, in which I do not lose a few sentences on the question of tourism. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Of course!]] – My friend Hazelsteiner, before I went down, asked me not to forget. The Austrian tourism industry has all the market opportunities in this world. We are looking forward to the opening of the Schengen area, we are looking forward to the euro as a very important part of it, that we can at last be comparable in our prices and that the quality of our services can also be valued in terms of price, and we believe that Austria's opening to the East, that is to say, the inclusion of our neighbouring countries into the European Union, is a major further step in tourism development. "Puppi" Aumayr has of course immediately to say: only for the "White Roßl". – This is due to the fact that you do not have any other call for intervention. Haigermoser speaks of the apple strudel and "Pupi" Aumayr of "White Roßl". I would like to thank you for the advertising that is now in the Minutes. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Time and again! The next time pot swirl! I'm changing!]] The problem is, ladies and gentlemen, that this tourism industry, which actually has all market opportunities, has conditions in the cost sector, which it partially benefits from the markets and, on the other hand, it is finding help both to the Minister of Economic Affairs and to the competent national governments. It does nothing if one does not understand the phenomenon of tourism, it does nothing if one shifts the debt from the countries to the Federation and back again! Once you sit together with the countries, develop a concept of how tourism can go, how to avert a regional political disaster! Federal Minister! Tourism has brought prosperity to the last valleys of Austria. Thank God! The poorest regions have become the richest! What you are experiencing today is a threat to the reachable! If we are not just talking about the total turnover, we are not only talking about the nights – which we will need – but we are talking about the business situation of the providers, especially in the hotel industry, which is in a double mill, namely the capital intensity and the staff intensity. Minister for Economic Affairs! Unfortunately, what you have been offering in tourism policy has been disappointing. I think a new start would be necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6248	I call Mr Heindl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6277	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have little time, so I can only say a few sentences, Mr Peter. In some things, we agree, but I always find you in contradictions. First, you have called for very vehemently: Don't promote anymore, end with promotions! – And last but not least have She said: I know how to promote. - That's just for the introduction. One should stick to one point of view: If you are opposed to promotions, then you are opposed, but you must not say in the same speech: Let's get it done. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't have much time, so in a short time: I would like to address the issues of external trade, current account and enlargement to the EU, if I may, in a short time. The data, ladies and gentlemen – I always have a little bit "from" with colleagues Prinzhorn – because I believe that he is a realistic person – should be taken note of. Currently – half-yearly, quarter-third, year-end – we have brilliant economic data: low inflation rates as never before, low interest rates as never before. We have a situation, including wage unit cost development and competition, which has greatly improved. Only the contexts have to be presented correctly! We already know that we had a deterioration from 1992 to 1995. Now, in the last two years, starting this year, the unit labour cost situation has improved considerably – all legible; only the statistics need to be looked at – and this trend continues. Accordingly, the forecasts also look like. But if one does not believe us and the opposition always keeps us healthy – I always say that criticism is also important, there is no discussion at all, Mr Peter – then one should use objective statistics. You mentioned Ireland. I took something out of the Internet today because I wanted the last stand. How does the evaluation of economic power look? – Do you know where Ireland is? - In 12th place! Do you know where Austria is? – With Germany in 4th place! No more comment on this, that's just the facts! - I don't have much time! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] I would like to deal with this in detail, but we could do so on other occasions. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You know it's on the trend!]] – These are facts, not my subjective opinion, that’s from EUROSTAT. I got the last issue today at about 1 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen! Current account: With all the economic data that are positive, I see the trend in the current account in 1996/97 quite unfavourable – no question! I don't see them unattended. It is only if we look more closely at it that we also have to say again that it is not so dramatic in terms of economic policy that we take certain factors into account. Of course, a key factor in the development of the current account of the EU contribution is, of course, another key factor is the development of tourism – no discussion at all – the development of travel traffic – which, of course, has a direct impact on the current account – and also a key factor in exchange rate development. However, there has also been a substantial change over the last half and three quarters of the year, and this is what I admit to be part of the unit labour cost development, but one should see that it is not just the exchange rate – so important it was in individual relations, whether it was Italy or other countries that had devalued two or three years ago. We noticed a structural improvement, and there was an increase in productivity. That's what the data tells us. The positive export development has already been discussed. I would just like to say a few words about this because we have talked about it both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I'm going a little further than we've always discussed so far, when we said, Let's be glad, it's going to be positive again. I would like to see further development in both foreign policy and external economic policy. What do I mean? I have already said it in committee. With regard to the development in the southern belt of the former Soviet Union – I only call Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan – one can say that there are new markets there! Recently I was there, and I'm wondering: Nothing can be seen from Austria. The Italians and French are already there – on the spot, very active, with success. Finally, these countries of the former Soviet Union are developing. What do I want to express? – Just punctually: We should start from the previous foreign trade policy and expand it. I just call you a keyword: Asia is no longer what it once was. Perhaps there are a little cheaper markets in our vicinity. This means that there should be a rethinking of regionality. Ladies and gentlemen! East extension: I am pleased that Mr Vice-Chancellor said the sentence: Avoid an impression to keep the neighbouring countries outside. – I am one of those who are absolutely of this view – not because the EU is now deciding – that enlargement has to take place. But in the same breath, I say: As a border country – I am a child from a village directly on the border – we must not close our eyes to the fact that this is not feasible from today to tomorrow, given the current social situation, the wage situation and the environmental situation – whether this is in three years or in four years’ time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm just always thinking about it: We also needed – but we were in a better situation – from the Association Agreements 1972 to 1995 until we were a somewhat equivalent country within the EU. Why can't you think of others as well? I am not thinking of such a long time dimension in these countries now, but I believe that we should provide a shorter period of time, but we should see the problems and not close our eyes to them by adopting tough competition in different areas, especially in border areas, in the eastern region. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6334	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6361	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You are right, I will also talk about energy policy, as Mr Peter has his horse in tourism. It has already been mentioned that the Federal Minister has a wide range to represent, and my horse is, of course, energy policy. But before I come to talk about it, I would like to look at the concept that Mr Peter, too, has put into discussion this ritual of an economic debate with a few Members, which is characterized by the fact that the government parties naturally defend economic policy and lack any critical distance, as Mrs Tichy-Schreder has unfortunately demonstrated here, while the opposition parties... [[Abg. Marizzi: Where are your delegates?]] - Of course! This also applies to the members of the opposition! Not only that it is difficult for the members of the government to carry out this ritual, it is also for us... [[Abg. Eder: If we're here, we'll be blamed!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That is why you let us try not to discuss polemically, but perhaps, if you listen, you can benefit from the arguments of others. Mr Peter speaks of modern economic policy. It would be interesting to discuss what we mean by "modern" and whether we have similar ideas about for whom economic policy should be made and for whom not. [[Calls and calls to the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] – Now so few are present, and yet you are walking! As in school! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Mrs. Oberlehrerinde!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] No, if you need to chat, I'd just suggest: Why don't you go out and let us discuss the few remaining ones who are still here? What is right and what has already been mentioned is that not only the Austrian economy but, of course, the European economy as a whole is undergoing major changes. Of course, large enterprises with annual turnover comparable to the gross national product of smaller or medium-sized countries have corresponding political power. We are faced with liberalised markets, with completely new criteria. We are facing the phenomenon of increasing structural unemployment, which cannot be solved with old funding instruments in this form. We are in favour of the fact that the American model of the shareholder value is increasingly asserting in Europe, in contrast to what has so far been very high in Europe among companies, namely, something like Stakeholder value, and suddenly many, originally interested in the system, are not more or less taken into account. If, in the context of modern economic policy, it is discussed that this would automatically mean that, in the context of a budget debate, of course, the tax and tax rate should be reduced and that subsidies and subsidies should be reduced in general, I must say that I think this is a wrong approach. I am also supporting a guest comment by Professor Tichy, who yesterday described a new study of the Monetary Fund in the press. He writes that this study tries to clean up with very popular prejudices. One area, Professor Tichy, points out – I do not assume, as he is also known to the ÖVP that he is suspected of being a blind Keynesian – and writes: "Lessly clear than the influence of the tax system is that of the tax level itself. High taxes do not necessarily dampen growth, it depends on the use of the resulting revenue, i.e. on the interaction of taxes, expenditure and budget policies." In this context, it supports, above all – and this is a main criticism from us – that public expenditure must be considered in such a way that it needs to be concentrated in the new, important areas of education and research and, of course, will have a positive impact on growth and are necessary and meaningful. Federal Minister! In the context of this, I think it is wrong that in an amendment, the amount of 470 million originally clearly indicated for the FFF no longer appears to appear to the FFF and that it will now be left to you and your place of business in which the FFF is to be promoted or to have the funds. There are areas in which politics, even if it is faced with large corporations, can and must, of course, set a framework for the economy in the country far more than Mr Farnleitner does. It can only be demonstrated by one example that from my point of view this direction is wrong or that the framework conditions are not set correctly. For me, a mark of economic policy is trying to turn to a few screws in the old system and to try to adapt to the new circumstances – the new conditions of liberalisation of markets, structural unemployment, this shareholder value. In the field – here I come to the area where I feel at home – the energy industry is big, necessary restructurings. We are likely to face the biggest challenge in the Second Republic with regard to the restructuring of the energy industry. The liberalisation directive of the European Union also obliges Austria not only to rethink its existing structure in the energy sector but simply to reorganise it. Federal Minister! At the beginning of your term of office, you presented some suggestions or ideas with which we could have been very friendly. One of the proposals was that you, obviously, also thought that it was necessary to seek an Austrian solution, since the individual national societies in European competition are undoubtedly not competitive. In these nine national energy companies, we have a bloated device with overpaid management posts, with - usually - overpaid normal staff. This is in no way competitive in Europe. The existing structure, as it is currently present, will simply not be sufficient and will not be sufficient to remain in the old ownership relationship as from 1999 when this EU Directive enters into force. It is a mystery to me why it is obviously not possible to find consensus between the federal states. Minister! I am so sorry that you have obviously failed in your efforts to try an Austrian solution, and I do not believe that the property rights of the individual ETUCs... – I am deduced from the current electricity organisation law of the Minister. [[Abg. Head: Who says that? What's that supposed to mean?]] [[Abg. Head: That no solution comes, that has nothing to do with the law!]] This must have something to do with the law, Mr President. There is no Austrian coordination. The search for an Austrian solution seems to be aimed at an Austrian power plant company, in which the individual state companies bring in their own power plants, which remain in their ownership until now, but one must finally try to coordinate themselves together, establish a common network society and thus act as a closed and single-buyer. [[Abg. Head: To force!]] It is absolutely obscene to me how one can put forward a law in which one interprets the EU directive in such a way that one has 15 single-buyers and believes that one can leave everything as it is at present with a few small changes – one can turn on a screwdriver and there on a screwdriver. Thus, the good Austrian proporz solution transferred to Brussels. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] This may succeed in your staffing in the Commission or in the various institutions in Brussels, but it will not work in the economic sector. They will simply "crawl up" with the solution. It will then be the case that parts of the individual national EVUs – whether that is the Steweag or the OKA at first – then belong to the Bayern plants or other major energy supply companies. In addition to this, it is still possible to establish itself across these federal boundaries and to develop a common solution between the union on the one hand and the nine Lande-EVUs on the other. In the design you sent out, there is no ecological design at all. There is absolutely no use of power plants according to ecological criteria. It is again missing that a Least-Cost-Planning is taken into a law. This has been true in some states of America since 1974 and has proved successful. In this context, when we are talking about your budget, there are no incentives at all to switch to alternative energy sources, there is a clear promotion of biomass, wind energy and, of course, photovoltaics and solar energy. It is absurd for us to discuss the climate conference which will take place in Kyoto in a few weeks, that we are dealing with the Minister for the Environment, because, of course, the Minister in charge is sitting here. It is a fact that the CO2 emissions in Austria are not being reduced, but that in 1996 they even increased by around 2%. The reason for this is simply that no energy policy is taking place. The Minister of Economic Affairs, at least from my point of view, in no way sees itself as Minister of Energy as a minister of energy, or at least only in the sense that he lets his head of section turn on the one hand and, on the other hand, as little as possible, interferes with the policies of the nine national ETUCs. This, of course, will result if everything remains old, if CO2 emissions rise and we make an international mockery when we say: We reduce CO2 emissions by minus 25 percent by the year 2010. [[Abg. Head: You've been saying that for so long! It's not getting any more real!]] That's right. If you don't believe me, talk to Professor Schleicher. [[Abg. Head: I did that!]] This is the chairman of the Austrian Climate Council, who not only speaks about a ridiculous alibi treatment, which is an original quote, in connection with the promotion of alternative energy by the Minister of Economic Affairs Farnleitner, but also admits that CO2 emissions increased in 1996. I know the language system will be – the language system is also of the Ministry –: We have stabilized at a high level – with the "high level" which means that it is once 2 percent more and then perhaps 1 or 2 percent less. I don't want to argue with you whether it's 10% or 2% more now. The important fact is: We have stabilised ourselves at a high level in CO2 emissions, and this means, of course, that we will not achieve close to the major objectives that are always announced at international conferences. Apart from making ourselves ridiculous internationally, we also miss a great opportunity for development. Just as Professor Tichy's article mentioned earlier, there is indeed the possibility of promoting, by public authorities, those technologies which are not yet so marketable to exist, and thus beating two flies with one flap, namely, to produce something ecologically, to reduce CO2 emissions, and on the other hand to make a new technology really marketable, because it is more used as a result. Germany and Denmark have shown this with the use of wind power technology. Over the last five years, the flow of wind power has been reduced by a number of times, with a corresponding good ecological but also workplace policy impact. We have a hundred projects that are currently on ice. Mr Minister, you know that we have often talked about it. They always answer: We have so much electricity in Austria, we have such an excess, you can't go down more with the prices! We don't need new power plants! In principle, I give you the right to: We do not need new power plants – but only if this was a purely additional fact. But what we need is the substitution. [[Abg. Head: This certainly does not work with wind energy!]] If we want to reduce CO2 emissions, we need a reduction in fossil fuel use. We need a reduction in the use of coal, oil and gas. By the way: The coal is funded annually in Austria – which can also be seen from the budget of the Minister of Economic Affairs – with about 170 million Schilling. This is more than a gypsum than alternative energy sources in Austria are being promoted. That is, how concrete policy – because you can talk a lot, as Mr Umweltminister Bartenstein actually looks at conferences, here in Parliament or wherever – can be seen from the figures. That is why budget debates are of course exciting when we look at the specific figures and see how serious it is to policy when it comes to specific promotions when it comes to the changeover, for example those in tax law, in order to achieve a reduction in CO2. Unfortunately, you have not proved yourself to be an ally in energy taxation, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs. Of course – it was mentioned earlier – labour costs in our country are high, and a further increase would probably not be possible if one tried to obtain budget resources through a tax increase in this area. There are appropriate consultations in the Ministry of Finance. I think it is necessary to prefer an ecologisation of the tax system to make it quick. One could at last take a big step – as you did in part on the pension issue – by bringing the various contracting partners to a table, discussing different aspects and finally making an exchange, namely a reduction in the tax burden on labour costs and a corresponding increase in the taxation of different energy sources. There is a lot to be done here, Minister of Economic Affairs. It is done by you little to nothing in this direction. In this sense, they are a representative of the old system, who simply does not trust to take a new step, or who cannot prevail with the various negotiators. It will not succeed in doing something here with pure repair measures. One last thing: In your ==References====External links== You have recently sent a draft ministerial review. We have delivered an opinion on this. Not only we, but also various university professors have found: This draft is unconstitutional – just as it was the novel of 1990 from our point of view, because at that time an extension of the concept of mining was simply carried out improperly in an area. Not you did that at the time, but your predecessor, but you continue this path now. They are trying to bloat an old maria-thesian law in a way that does not correspond to the ecological or economic ideas in that country. You can read this in detail in our opinion. I would ask you, Minister, to ensure that it does not come back – as in 1990 – to the adoption of a mountain law which, basically, only all opposes politics. At panel discussions, all the parties, from which SPÖ – I remember, Mr Parnigoni – was there – about the ÖVP – who always sent countrymen – up to the liberals, in the consensus of opinion: Just as this mountain law is, it has to be abolished even in vain, because it is not capable of improving. This has always been announced on such occasions under great applause by many workers of gravel pits. But if it becomes concrete, then the gravel and gravel lobbys are clearly going through again. I don't know if Mrs Fekter is just so diligent or if it is... – I have very little sympathy with Mrs Fekter, if I have to realize that, on the one hand, literally – this is really something you have to look at in the ministerial draft – the proposals have been accepted by the Federal Chamber of Commerce or the section which is responsible for them in the Federal Chamber of Commerce and on the other hand no single point – not one! – has been incorporated into this ministerial template by the critics of this law. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Have pity for Mrs. Fekter and me!]] Federal Minister! I have heard you here from the government bank about "empowerment" and how necessary it is to give the individual players more rights and opportunities. This applies not only to the area of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, but also to those who have more say and more rights there, but also to those who live there, especially in such laws as mountain law, where so many people are affected. The fact that you not only turn off the citizens but ultimately also the communities is no longer contemporary for the year 1997, when you talk about empowerment. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Chamber of Commerce has expressed itself very critically to the draft! How does this fit together if the opinion was so critical?]] I very much hope, Minister of Economic Affairs – and this hope is especially for the SPÖ colleagues – that we will discuss this law as well as the Energy Organisation Act in this House even more, that we will talk about it in the committees and not only in the sections of the Federal Chamber of Commerce and that we will negotiate more in Parliament than this budget has been negotiated here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6562	Mr Puttinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6583	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A few words on Mrs Langthaler: It must either have read another draft of the mountain law or it has not read it at all. Otherwise, she would have seen that there is a party position of the mayor there, that there is a party position of the citizens and that there is now a link between the protection of the landscape and the right of the mountain. These are old demands made in this mountain law. Mrs Langthaler! Please read the new draft of the mountain law first before you make out here allegations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: I read!]] That's right! Please read it, then you'll find it in it. High house! First of all, a few comments on tourism. Mr Peter! I'll give you a lot of points. Two things, however, let me tell you: If we, like Ireland, were to receive 16 percent of the gross domestic product, it would also be very easy for our Minister to reduce taxes or other actions in Austria. 16 per cent of GDP – this is quite different, Mr President! [[Abg. May. Peter: 6 percent!]] I would also like to say: I know we need a lot of capital. I know we have a lot of staff in our industry, Mr President. But we cannot speak of double intensity, because we can only be intensive in one area: either capital or personal. - I just wanted to say that. Tourism in general. Minister! I am glad that in principle all budgetary positions are dealt with in our interest. I am glad that the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Trustee Hand is established as a tourist bank. It is possible that the TOP Tourism Line will be decided. It is possible that participation financing, i.e. risk capital financing for tourism, will be launched. We have greatly expanded the promotion of young entrepreneurs, Minister. And what's most essential to us is: We have also kept the funding for "Austrian advertising" at the same level and have now increased by 50 million schilling. We have the same resources at our disposal last year. Minister! Let me ask you two questions. First: Lead to what Do you return the relatively large fluctuations in the people who are busy in "Austrian advertising"? And second: What about the future development, with the synergies, with the cooperation between "Austrian advertising" and our economic representatives abroad? Thirdly, Mr Minister, or a request which is not fulfilled, but which we have to deal with: What about the tourism billion? There are many things that are standing up and uncontrollable: Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, We must fulfil all these tasks, and the tourism industry will need money to do so. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The current economic researchers' forecasts show that it is going up in Austria. We have the highest level of employment. We have export quotas, as we have not had them for a long time. We now have most apprentices. We have a rise in GDP. I think these are all things that show us that it's going up. This is a solid and basic basis on which we can build on. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I believe that all the opposition parties, as they sit in here, have long passed from such a solid and fundamental basis. If I see that the LIF is now present at the economic debate with zero people, I recognise the interest that the LIF has in this budget debate at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser, who has just entered the meeting room]] There it doesn't even need a hazelsteiner who doesn't know what he's talking about when he claims a growth of 0.5 percent when he uses the word "swivel budget". [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That was the bowl!]] I don't want to repeat all that has been said here several times. Only one thing, I think, must be said: We are not here to be Mr. Hazelsteiner, negative prophets. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That was the bowl!]] You can't afford that in your businesses at all. You know that as well as I do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I also come to the liberals. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Günter, I've been waiting for that!]] I'm glad you think I should be a little more calm. But you too are coming! And I will also be happy to prove to you what "solid" basis you work on, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You don't have so much time anymore!]] I made the effort to read a little bit. I wrote to myself here on four pages – on blue paper, so that it is in your color – allegations that you make, but which are in no way true or only half-truths. [[the speaker holds some blue sides in height]] But it has been said today that there are people with us who say half-truths. Here is the following – I can list it in a row –: emergency programme; Panikbudget; continuation of the path in the wrong direction; Payment at the cost of the population without regard to any other measures; short-term procurement; New elections by 1997 at the latest; chaotic monetary policy; [[Discouragement by representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] load package; cash loss in the social system; Austria as a patient at the intensive care station. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You can't say that as an opposition! These are half-truths, they are errors! I'm sorry to have to say that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Her leader speaks of honesty, of honesty in politics. At least once be so honest and accept the proposed budget because you realize it is right and good. You could prove that you are honest with this! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would just like to say to you: That is not our opinion alone, that is not only the opinion of the experts of the government parties, but also your experts say that the budget is in order and good. I have here three international opinions that you have to listen to – nothing else will be left to you –: For example, the "Frankfurter Allgemeine" writes: Austria, one of the few members of the European Union already meeting the Maastricht criteria for the euro today, is beginning to draw the attention of foreign investors. The Italians write: The Austrian Federal Government has landed a very large throw. This means the 1998 and 1999 budgets. And the "Financial Times" – you'll know them too, I suppose – writes: The budget shows that Austria fulfils the conditions for entry into monetary union. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If three large, internationally recognized economic newspapers claim that if all experts claim to do so, then you are so honest as a "party of honesty" that you also accept, to see the positive and to vote in our sense. We from the EIA have responsibility for this policy, we are in favour of it!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6732	Mr Haigermoser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary time limit: 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6753	High house! A few brief comments on Günter Puttinger, which I very much appreciate in itself, but with which, of course, one also has to deal with a bit of content. Thank God there are no female minstrants yet, or Mrs. Tichy-Schreder should be in the house chapel today. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – That was under your dignity, colleague Puttinger! Ladies and gentlemen! Now we come to the issue of honesty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] Mr Peter Hochegger, head of the WIFI of the Styria Chamber of Commerce, writes the following – literally from the recent edition of the Economic Chamber newspaper from Styria –: "As long as there are such laws that no human can understand, we will not get under control the problems on the labour market." – Original quote of a black capazunder who lamented what you decided a few weeks ago. So that means: Where is the honesty: in Parliament, Mr Puttinger, Mr Lobeshymnen, put it to the socialist coalition and then proclaim the opposite in the chamber periodicals? We will talk about this, ladies and gentlemen, what is honest. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: 80 million!]] Is it honest to fight the drinking tax outside and to fall in here? Is it honest to fight the contract regulations outside and to turn in here? Is it honest to say to the citizens that you would be opposed to the Workers' Protection Act, and since in lying down still to fall, damned and sewn, will Puttinger be? [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: 80 million he demanded!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A budget debate is always the way in which the government and the coalition live. And from this point of view, you have trouble. The Federal Chancellor's climate shone yesterday through absence and the poor State Secretary, whose name I am not aware of at the moment, put the government's moral image on the bank. He has made a big bow around the house, Mr. Klima, and around the so celebrated budget. He will already know why: because this budget will quickly be recovered if it has to be implemented. We know that social democracy is, of course, happy if it does not have to discuss, because, as you always hear, it has great difficulties with people outside. There is an end-time atmosphere: in Vorarlberg, meaningless, blazed in Tyrol, in Salzburg the horse is paralysing, as soon as the Moravians will enter, and in Carinthia the horse will be completely destroyed. The yesterday's words really shuddered in inconsistencies, especially those of the woman Cordula Frieser, who, in a cigarette break from the lobby, made a political lung move from the speaker's mouth to the other. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But it's not the SPÖ!]] You should explain to us how this budget really looks in implementation, Mrs Cordula Frieser! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why are you so hostile to women?]] I'm sorry for your use of cigarettes. This is not my problem, ladies and gentlemen, but it is the problem of Austrian citizens and taxpayers. Now to you, Minister of State Dr. Farnleitner. As a matter of principle, I agree with you once again. But what you have put before us today, as you have already done in the committee, that was – I hold back – really a coffee-plumbing hour without coffee. That was a little bit, not a vision, Dr. Farnleitner! The inclusion of Americanisms in the language vocabulary is not a substitute for an economic policy programme! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let us take into account the problems of trade; a special area of which I think I understand something. We now have 250,000 employees. The number of apprenticeships decreases. It's not going to take care of it. Valuable full-time jobs are replaced by McJobs – and no new jobs are created, well noticed; we could still talk about that. And not only because of globalisation, and not only because of the changed consumer behaviour, Mr. Federal Minister, you know it just as well as I do, but primarily because of a lack of antitrust provision that could have restricted demand, market power! Promises for years Your predecessors and you are such a antitrust regime to allow trade in the villages, markets, communities and cities to survive in the sense of job security. Red and black have jointly prevented such antitrust law, for various reasons, the blacks especially because of the Raiffeisen Group. And now the story is getting you relatively dwindling. Mr Puttinger! They should not only read the "Frankfurter Allgemeine" (Frankfurter Allgemeine), but also the classics from time to time, Mr. Goethe, who has already written a lot of genius in his "Zauberleiterling". And this "Zauberleiterling" is now accompanying the Federal Government in its action and omission. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] Federal Minister! The fact is that, for example, because of preventing sales under the income price, where you do not get through with the left comrades who, as has been said, reject this story for other reasons, the local care, the medium-sized person breaks away. These are facts. There you can go home with so many numbers as far as export is concerned! The middle class, the main job holder, breaks you away according to KSV, ladies and gentlemen. And, on the other hand, you should take action, Mr Puttinger, and not now a Philippines ride for a budget. But I understand you have to do that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition to wage costs. Federal Minister! Of course, they are not directly responsible; I know that. But in your overall responsibility in the Committee She said: The unit labour costs are much more interesting, and the additional wage costs are not so important. Federal Minister! Have you ever heard of service? Is there not this one? You should ask yourself if it is true that over the last three years the social contributions from entrepreneurs have increased by 0.3 percent and that this costs the economy a total of 7.5 billion schilling of burdens which you of course do not have in your war fund to go to Europe. This is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that you have. In the research funding zero! Founder offensive: Well, please don't tell me that your trade regulations are setting in motion a founding offensive. Please do not be angry with me if I say so, but only with this draft regulation on the part of the industry. Just one sentence. List of sub-sectors: The following activities are sub-sectors: Disintegrated buildings. – What about the one-and-a-half-storey buildings, Mr. Federal Minister? A red tape monster, a prevention regulation is that and nothing else! And you know that. A paper man! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And where is your medium-sized offensive, ladies and gentlemen? We have heard it in the recent mission of the Freedom-Economics Ring in China, because it has told us the foreign trade delegate himself there: The equity base is missing, so so few Austrian companies work with us in China. And what are you doing? – You sit on the government bench and wash your hands in innocence. Pontius Pilate was there before you. Ladies and gentlemen, you should be offensive! In conclusion, I would like to say the following: They say – for example, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder blows into this horn – that the liberals have no idea, no concepts and so on. There is a survey of the Chamber of Commerce – Kämmerer, listen! – financed by compulsory membership contributions. The IMAS Institute has asked a thousand Austrians: Is the strong burden on the Austrian economy by the State on the risk to jobs primarily responsible? For 64 percent, the answer was yes. Have they been the "evil" liberals now? Or has that been the citizens? From you, from the Chamber of Commerce, you ladies and gentlemen! Who is responsible for this economic climate in Austria? Who else than this socialist coalition! Now it becomes interesting with regard to competence. Mr Puttinger! Listen, the ears are pointed! According to these respondents, when it comes to the solution of economic problems, the most competent are: with 13 percent of the social democrats – not even the yellow of the chickenry, but at least – with 8 percent of your black friends – you have a very good nose from the SPÖ! – and now the liberals come: The liberals have been assigned 18 percent competence, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So alone we have as much as you have each other, but you are three times as many or two and a half times as many Members! [[Abg. Kröll: The Chamber of Commerce has the highest competence!]] Where is the cerebral malt you want to bring in, ladies and gentlemen? For these and many other reasons, we reject this budget: because it is retroactive, is not innovative and takes place!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6914	Mr Oberhaidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6936	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to a previous speaker, like Mr Haigermoser, it is not difficult to re-acquire the debate here in the House. But also for reasons of time, I do not have the opportunity to address his contributions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Federal Minister! In the middle of this year, I was pleased to note that you and Mr Gruber have signed the General Agreement on the promotion of renewable energy sources. I am also pleased that our demands, the fund solution, the investment promotion, the import tariffs, the economic circumstances are included in this general agreement. Much less pleased me with the donation of this general agreement. 20 million schilling should come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, 60 million schilling, if all EVUs sign, from the EVUs. But, as I said, I stood up to the criticism. I just explained that a minimal solution is better than none. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, almost half a year after that, I had to say that this general agreement was still not effective. I would therefore ask you from here, with your colleagues in government, with Minister of Agriculture Molterer, with Minister for the Environment Bartenstein, to talk again about whether it would not be possible to move them to join this General Agreement, because then we would at least have a proper teaching. The 250 million schillings that both want to set off, plus the 80 million schillings, that would be 330 million schillings. This would enable us to promote renewable sources of energy in a targeted and effective manner. It is also my concern that we should also encourage the countries to join in order to finally clear up the existing bottleneck of support in connection with renewable energy sources. In conclusion, Minister of State: The best agreement is only a good agreement when it finally becomes effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6987	Next word: Mr. Dr. Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7008	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus on certain priorities, particularly those which are not entirely essential to Austria's economic location, namely the reorganisation of the Austrian electricity industry. I must say, in my regret, that the Federal Minister has presented a series of times in this regard which is unacceptable from the point of view of the Liberals. At the beginning of his ministry, he had chosen a political announcement that gave rise to the hope that a real structural reform would come. In the meantime, we have landed at a punctuation which is actually a capitulation, namely a capitulation before the national leaders. And this has been bad for the long-term and sustainable development of an infrastructure issue at all times. Because national leaders see infrastructure problems very strongly from a shortened selfish point of view, from a too much regional point of view. And the infrastructure issue of the large electricity networks in this country and the well-organised installation of electricity will end up in the hands of the national leaders; it will result in projects such as Lambach, which we do not need from a general economic point of view, but also from the immediate need of economics at least from the moment on, if at all. But such questions will not be discussed if, Mr Federal Minister, the reality is what you imagine under structural reform of the Austrian electricity industry. It will not be good if we represent one of the Federal's essential tasks in this field without fighting. Federal Minister Farnleitner! As a long-term man, you are well aware of these issues to know that what is now being proposed by your house or by you is not the best solution. They know that it is problematic in the context of the liberalisation of electricity markets. They know that it is problematic in the context of the creation of a relatively uniform economic area at least at this level, with uniform conditions for companies from the structure. What, do you think, will an investor say when he notes that your considerations make a significant difference as to whether he is investing in Enns or in Amstetten, just because by chance there is a federal border between them, where we are actually about to create a single economic area in Europe? Therefore, I ask you to be very competent – or also very researched how you prefer it: Once again, consider whether you really want to continue the way to put party policy ahead of policy on matters! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this connection, I should like to make a point, and I am talking about this with the energy speakers of the other political groups: Parliament is not even involved in the pre-consultation, even in no way at all, and all that is in progress now runs exclusively between the offices of the heads of state and your home – at best between your house and the offices of other lobbyists – and this is very bad because it is about substantial, long-term change. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Typical!]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: But that is typical of this federal government!]] I am saving myself to introduce you in detail, which should actually be the case in the field of electricity structure – everyone who really is interested in it knows that anyway – but I can make a few comments. If you do not break this strange and unholy contrast between the federal states and the federal government and create an Austrian-wide new interlocutory society, operating from a single source, which considers its role as a network company and a body responsible for load management and can also operate it unimpeded by third-party influences, then you will experience for a short or long time the actual decision-making centres on the development of infrastructures, especially in the highest voltage networks, far away from our country. If you do not introduce principles that are known to you all, like a real unbundling, then you will not make the meaningful pressure of competition within the electricity industry effective, with all the known effects on disproportionately high prices – "disproportionate" is the essential word. The fact that you do not make any special efforts to make yourself strong from your home in the context of an environmental tax reform at the political level is no wonder, but I must tell you that I would have hoped for more of you. You know as well as I do that the civil service of your home is able, willing and willing to work fully in innovative reforms, but the political requirement must come from you. But if the political requirement does not come from you, or indeed comes from you, but actually from the national leaders, then nothing can develop. Mr Federal Minister, I really ask you to consider this again. Return to your expertise and overcome You're this party hack! The fact that the matter is being carried by Parliament is a pity for a number of reasons. You know that there are very constructive approaches in this field, also in the area of opposition parties. I do not want to join any other group here, but for the Liberal Group I can say to you: We would be at our disposal at any time and we will be at our disposal in the future, because when it comes to such survival issues, then we will not be able to go. Then we don't simply lean back in our armchairs and wait until it's wrong to be able to grapple well afterwards. This topic is too important to us! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, a statement relating to an important environmental aspect which my predecessor Langthaler has already referred to: You have lost sight of the CO2 problem. You know very well, a CO2 reduction is only possible if it actually succeeds in producing meaningful quantitative savings in the use of fossil energy sources. That is why I would like to suggest: Why don't you talk to your colleague Bartenstein? Perhaps he has time to deal with environmental issues, if he may take a look at his family policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7079	The next speaker is Mr Kröll. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7101	Mr President. Minister! High house! Many clarifications, corrections and additions have already been made by my previous speakers. To the colleague Haigermoser I have to say one thing – now he is here –: [[Abg. Haigermoser: I hear! I'll sharpen my ears!]] It's all right with the percentages you mentioned in connection with the competence question, only you haven't read before and afterwards. There is also called the highest competence, and that is the Chamber of Commerce. This also has something to do with the Economic Federation and Puttinger, which is already clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To be honest, you should quote it all over and not just bring what is worst for the ÖVP and forget what is best for the ÖVP! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] It's just about honesty. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I refer to chapters 63 and 64, tourism and buildings. The basic budget for Chapter 63 is around 2.8 billion schilling, and for the chapter Buildings, 18.3 billion schilling is in the proposal. The Tollvignette has proved itself, and if you see that together with the ASFINAG, you can find that the Federal Roads Construction is also financially secured in its programme continuation. This stable revenue of over 3 billion schilling ensures the continuation of road construction. In the Building Committee, it was also mentioned that federal roads should fall into country competence in the future. This is, in principle, correct and welcome. In the future, however, federal roads should remain of supraregional importance in the competence of the federal government. The Minister has expressed his opinion on this in the Committee. I am very grateful that this will be taken into account accordingly. Some reflections on tourism. The summer season was really cold – warm, as we say in the countryside, or, if you want, rained, but then the sunshine came. This is spoken literally and figuratively, but also evidenced by statistics. The exact billing or the statistics for the summer half of 1997 are not yet officially available, but it can already be said that there is a tolerable minus to be expected – I emphasize: with a tolerable minus. The negative forecasts, which were published in July, and the expectations of a double-digit decline in the percentages, were welcomed by a much better course of the second half of the summer – also due to the weather, I would like to underline – largely reorientated. That is not to say that we have no problems, but it shows that even so expensive studies cannot deceive us about one thing: Tourism is extremely weather dependent. We've seen this: When it rained through six weeks, there were the numbers with a two-digit minus in the basement, and when the sun shone, the people came back for vacation on the lakes and on the mountains. That's a fact, please. It is likely that there will be a reduction of about 3 per cent in the number of nights, and on the arrivals it could even be possible to keep the number of persons in the previous year, which means, of course, that a shorter stay has been recorded. Tourism revenue also shows a small, approximately 2 per cent decline. I already said how weather-dependent the tourism industry is. But there are also, ladies and gentlemen, and I am particularly proud of it as a steirer, especially in the past summer and six months very strong regional differences. With regard to the country's valuation, the Styria is cutting off with approximately 1.6 percent plus for the nights and sales with even more than 2 percent plus at the best of all federal states. I would therefore like to express my thanks, in reverse, for what has been critically noted here: There was a good cooperation, combined with big events. You know, just a big tourist event like the Österreichring is going to be a positive one, and we are looking forward to it. Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly pleased that it has been made possible – I would like to join Puttinger in this point, which has already pointed out – that the full dosage of the "Austrian advertising" of 350 million schillings is now available, so that 50 million schillings were made possible. We can see that the restructuring of "Austrian advertising" – a strategy concept of "Austrian advertising" in cooperation with countries, interest groups, as well as with the communities – is already bearing fruit. The advertising use of the "Austrian Advertising" was pleased to be restructured and improved from the 1995 budget share to 57 percent for advertising and marketing measures in 1998. I believe that this concept is absolutely going on, and I would like to draw this out as very positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, the TOP Tourism Fund from 1997 to 1999 is also positive for environmental energy saving projects, waste prevention and the like, to mention the improvement of industrial structures and the environmental label. Within the framework of the EU Presidency of Austria, a large quality management and tourism conference is planned in Mayrhofen. That's what I'm expecting. Austria will certainly bring topics such as holiday training to international attention. In conclusion: I believe that 1998, as many predict, can and will be the sole of a multi-year decline in development. Austria certainly has good opportunities to continue to compete well in enhanced international competition, one of the most important tourism countries in Europe. We have in the communities a good infrastructure for summer and winter with great services, trained and friendly staff, a positive tourism family, a cultural landscape and natural beauty, a wide cultural offer, a high environmental standard and high quality farms in the gastronomy, in the hotel industry, in the private sector and also on the farm. Big events round off this picture. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Time!]] I believe that tourism is of great importance to all of us, because it offers many people work and existence and creates a habitat, a survival room in the countryside, in the mountains and in the valleys. But it also means encounters for many people – nationally and internationally. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7170	Next speaker: Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7191	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am speaking exclusively of the technology offensive, which is supposed to be a focus of this federal government. I should like to remind you that, in the middle of 1997, the allocation of the research fund for the industrial economy, the FFF, was planned with words and writing 1 000 s, practically with a grotesque of memory. This would have meant that the FFF should have ceased its promotion activity from July 1997. As a result, in the 1998 budget, the corresponding Chapter 63, 470 million Schilling grants were budgeted for the FFF, and this figure was also found in the 1998 sub-heading. Federal Minister! In mid-October, you wrote to an economic operator, a manager, the following letter in connection with the activity of the FFF: "Dear Mr. Sowieso! On your letter of 6 June, you are entitled to receive a copy of the letter. October of the year I may inform you of the following: In my opinion, the Research Fund for the Industrial Economy plays a central role in Austrian technology policy. It is therefore by no means intended to curtail it in its promotion, but I will work to ensure that the proven promotion of entrepreneurship research and development projects of the Fund will play a central role in the framework of the Federal Government's technology initiative. In future, the FFF's bottom-up principle will be complementary to force more specific government offensives and impulse programmes..." and so on, "with kind greetings, Hannes Farnleitner." This was mid-October, at a time when the amendments to the BVA had to be at least known to the ministers concerned and their officials. ==References== The meeting of the Budget Committee took place on October 14 days later. At this meeting, Minister Edlinger made it clear that the budgeted 470 million schilling for the FFF was reduced to zero, that the corresponding amount was transferred to the general economic support of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that funding of the FFF 1998/99 was not provided for, that, instead, the Fund should switch its policy from lending to interest subsidies, and that a new fund donation was planned at the earliest beginning of 2000. I am not at all referring to the theoretically interesting question of the extent to which this new policy of interest subsidies is more of a bank promotion than a research funding, but I am limited to the reaction of the FFF and quote from a letter from President Dr. Werner Frantsits to Mr. Federal Chancellor Mag. Viktor Klimavom 7. This year, one week after the meeting of the Committee on Budgets: "Dear Mr. Federal Chancellor! According to the APA and the Ministry of Finance's confirmation, in the Committee on Budgets, the 470 million schillings for the FFF as a donation were transferred to the general economic support of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs. In this way, the budget approach for the FFF for 1998 is set at EES NULL, contrary to the communications from the Minister of Economic Affairs to the press. This is an exceptionally precarious situation for Austrian research funding and the FFF. Even if the FFF transforms its loan return (available about 460 million schilling) all into grants, this would de facto halve the potential eligible value of the coming year compared to 1997 (bar value almost 1 billion schilling), and the promotion activity must concentrate solely on the continuation of earlier R&D projects." "New research projects" – I am still in the FFF's letter to German Chancellor Klima – "can't be started, successful and necessary actions such as the planned and the companies already aviated food initiative, cooperation SME science, technology cluster car suppliers, settlement of R&D departments of international corporations must be cancelled or rescinded. We ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, after our previous communications to They did not achieve any visible success, urgently" – boldly printed – "to cause sufficient dosage of the FFF. The other consequence is a complete collapse of the technology offensive successfully started in the field of FFF from January 1998." – The word "technology offensive" is rightly put under quotation marks here. "Fairly" – I continue to quote – "the fact that the FFF has only to grant marginal funding for new projects for 1998, by November at the latest" – that is, now – "must tell the research companies. Your Werner Frantsits." I therefore read this in extenso, because I would like these two letters to be contained in Parliament's stenographic protocols: the letter of the Minister of Economic Affairs, which was written at the same time, when the FFF's dosage of 470 million schilling was reduced to zero, and that letter written to the Chancellor one week after the meeting of the Committee on Budgets. In these letters, as I believe, I am unmistakably referring to the consequences of this policy. No one in the House should be able to say it afterwards: Unfortunately, we did not know that. Federal Minister Farnleitner! The announcement of the so-called technology offensive was welcomed by all five parties in this House. Unfortunately, however, it has remained with the announcement. There are no technology billions, neither 1997 nor 1998 nor 1999. There is only a budget item of 1 billion schilling in Chapter 5183, but this is a significant part of the so-called export offensive. At the same time, however, the FFF dose was reduced to zero from 470 million schilling. And that's what you call a technology offensive! I really wonder, Minister of Economic Affairs, how you can answer this, given that the technology offensive was one of the few points that were interesting, both in the government statement and in the budget speech of the Minister of Finance and in other statements, especially the Chancellor and yourself. And then these words follow nothing except that the dosage of the FFF is reduced to zero by 470 million schilling. "Abbreviated" is an euphemistic expression in this context. Federal Minister! At least I expect you to declare today that you are still remembering that the 470 million schilling, which has now been transferred to your own budget, has been transferred to the FFF. You don't have to stop that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7282	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7304	Mr President. High house! I did not want to speak until later, but in two areas I have to take the floor in order to save speaking time, to put things in front of me or to put them in front of me, which have little to do with reality. On the question of research funding presented by Professor Van der Bellen. If that were as simple as you are, Mr deputies, then it would be a lovely country. But it's different. In principle, Mr Edlinger and I have agreed during the budgetary negotiations in research policy, because we want the optimal use of every schilling in research funding that the FFF uses from its standard practice to grant loans instead of working like a bank, going off and using the money with a multiplier effect for grants. The result has been that the FFF has always put pressure on its annual budget. We had a twofold educational work against an exceptionally unconstructive work of some gentlemen of the fund in letters to various entrepreneurs. Confession of this new policy has taken some time. Now it is the case that the FFF is voluntary in so far as it continues to grant loans to micro-enterprises, where necessary, but only grants more grants to large firms. This means that due to the return flows it has sufficient money to do the most important ongoing projects. Then came the story with the 427 million schilling. It was before a meeting in autumn, in September, when it was claimed by the FFF that if he had no budget item to cover, he would not be predisposing as he otherwise did every year without difficulty. We have therefore taken this budgetary interim measure in order to give it the appropriate justification. We have eaten together and discussed what he needs when he does the new financing policy and when he gets new projects next year. – The information we have received was that if he receives some 300 million schilling from the 2 billion schilling from the bank-austria-privatisation and CA-privatization each – and this is foreseen in the Ministry of Finance for both budgets in the government decisions – he has no fear of rejection in any project. In the meantime, the talks on the export offensive have progressed. Mr President. I would also like to make a few brief words to the House. It was about four components. The first component was a redefinition of the Science and Research Council and its resettlement. It is in the legislative preliminary work, which has not yet been officially sent out, that this Council is established, re-occupied and, so to speak, established as a kind of Steering Committee for Research Policy in Austria. Second point: It was a question of bringing the two funds and the KIR that were still to be set up under a common roof. There's another discussion about the settlement of this roof. Third area: Financing. It was and is out of dispute that some 1 billion schillings will be brought into the financing of the two funds from the ERP Fund as early as next year, with a loud cry from all those involved there – of course, where is something going without a call. In the following years 660 million Schilling will also be available for research and development. Fourthly, we are talking about a budget-independent fund fund foundation, which is best not officially discussed, but it is sufficient to discuss where such a donation comes from. I do not see any problem for the research paper and ask you to take note of that. I am happy to be able to assure Professor Van der Bellen, also in bilateral dialogue, that we are simply no longer "rolling" – under quotation marks. I myself was with Mr Sellemond some time ago. He will receive satisfaction from all the research projects he is planning in Austria. There's no problem with the location either. That is where, when I refer to the first speaker, I do not need to recommend operating visits! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can address the question of energy policy in general. Ladies and gentlemen! There are often reports in the media that I myself am amazed at, what I have said, what I have not done and what I should have done everywhere. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where do the reports come from, Mr. Minister?]] It is more invented here than researched, and it is a "good" principle not to get a predetermined opinion through research. This is happening at a level that has nothing to do with the Energy Act because ownership and implementation of an EU directive are really two pairs of shoes. I should now like to focus briefly on the things that are going on the Austrian solution rail. There is already consensus that a kind of dispositive optimization of electricity generation in Austria is to take place very quickly between interconnected society, WIENSTROM and EVN – invited to Upper Austria and Styria – at least before the Directive enters into force, so that, without prejudice to this, the necessary specific linkages and new constructions can be initiated. This is probably one of the most difficult tasks to imagine in the case of differences in organisation and mentality in Austria. I'm not asking you to put that together. There are already very concrete discussions. You'll see if the Styria and Upper Austria are in the process. To the law itself, which goes into consideration these days. It is about the implementation of the EU Directive. This will be implemented quickly, we will begin the opening with 40 GWh. We will open distribution networks that themselves have authorised customers, and distribution networks within a larger framework. We will also open it to all the country companies that want to import themselves. The old traditional monopoly will no longer exist, and there are corresponding regulations. These will soon be available to you all. However, I ask you to consider one thing, because I have been referred to the feed-in tariffs again. We have at the moment the state that we have delegated the issue of feed tariffs and feed arrangements to the national leaders. At the same time, we negotiated the General Agreement. Now the last message is that the countries are not prepared to give up this competence. At the same time, it has been found that the implementation of the EU Directive is almost legally impossible to manage alternative energy. There are probably several overtones from Brussels that this is not the case. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's not true at all! There are national spaces enough! That's not true at all!]] On the other hand, it is quite clear that if we have a model in which we leave the feed-in tariffs in the country, and at the same time we could probably get from the symbiosis of owners and feed-in regulators something very distant from the EOG, the Energy Organisation Act, to a more prestigious use of alternative energy than we could bring this together through the General Agreement on non-opportunity control instruments from the EU Directive. Mr President. So much I wanted to say about the state of things.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7362	Thank you very much, Minister of State. The next speech is by Mr Mag. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It wasn't a single liberal in the room who could have heard the Minister! No Liberal has been here!]] Excuse me, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, what did you say? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Minister answered the Liberals, and it was not a single liberal in the room!]] Mr Mag. Gaßner, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7405	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, I'm going to be However, I would like to start with a word from you which you said at the Committee's debate when you spoke about the importance of the North-South connection between the Czech Republic and Upper Austria and the importance of the Danube port of Enns and the future cooperation between these two regions. My predecessor in this House, Mr Robert Elmecker, whom I remember in terms of my first attempt to start in gratitude, has always dealt with this subject and has stood behind this powerful north-south axis. I would like to deal with the extension of the Danube port of Enns. A protocol adopted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in March of last year says, in short, that: The Ennshafen region is one of Austria's largest settlement areas. – That's a very essential statement. It also says: There are 4,000 jobs – I repeat: 4,000 jobs! – possible only on the upper Austrian side. There are large companies that are interested in this, but unfortunately they do not invest there because there is a lack of transport links. It should also be noted that in the area of Ennshafen a three-quarters of a billion schilling public funds have already been invested. There is therefore a clear lack of an acceptable transport link. There are two motorway connections missing, one in the area of St. Valentin/Rems, the other between Enns and Asten – by the Upper Austrians called "Eckmayr-Knots" – and between them a powerful connection that, to use synergies, could be made with the train, but unfortunately one is not yet so far at the road. It is sometimes felt that the responsible bodies in Upper and Lower Austria operate true church tower policy. Everyone fears that if he does something, the other will benefit more greatly. It is therefore urgently necessary to establish this link, so that the ecologically significant Rhine-Main-Donau canal canal canal can be used. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hope that at this point I will have the opportunity to point out this urgent problem. I would ask you, Minister, to monitor and monitor the coordination of this project and to give this urgent concern the necessary importance to the implementation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7460	I call Mr Rosenstingl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7481	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Minister of State! It's very interesting what you're saying, even if it's not quite the matter. In fact, you have started your remarks by saying: If that were so simple, then the country would be adorable or worth living. - We didn't understand that very well. – I would just like to say to you: Despite government policy, the country is still kind and worth living! But this comment from you shows clearly what Austria-consciousness you and many of your colleagues have. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I understand that the Members of the Coalition have to beautify the economic situation in Austria. The fact is, however, that economic policy has been and is of helplessness with a chancellor climate and under the Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel, Ditz and Farnleitner. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is true that the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises is getting worse and that the number of insolvencys has increased dramatically. And what are you doing about it? What does this government coalition do about it? - Nothing! On the contrary, you are always inventing new strains. You have introduced the profit tax by creating out-of-balance sheet accounts and taxing them. They are taxing income that entrepreneurs do not have at all. They have constantly created new burdens due to additional bureaucracy. Federal Minister! I can recall a speech from you, in which you said that it was necessary to relieve businesses, in particular as regards statistics. – Mr Federal Minister, why do it? You don't? You know exactly what administrative burden it is to deal with businesses. Why should I put it? You're not acting? Why don't you stand up to the coalition partner? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Where are your ideas for economic promotion? – In this connection, I would like to make a quote from you in connection with a written request I have made to you. On the question "What measures will you take to stimulate private investment in the construction sector in particular?" You answered me: "Private capital in a significant amount could be invested very short-term here. The condition is that the tax-law framework is clear and that investors are guaranteed legal certainty for the entire period relevant to the tax." Federal Minister! They have decided, together with the Socialists, retroactive tax laws, which no longer gives legal certainty in Austria. They write that you can do that, that must be it, but do exactly the opposite and do not put any action at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Who is responsible for this, Mr. Federal Minister? – You are responsible! You must be in the government! You have to create the framework conditions! What are you on the government bank for, Mr. Federal Minister? – Obviously only to represent the helplessness of this federal government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You will write in this answer: "It is also essential that, according to the calculations of recognised experts in the tax field, an investment premium of 2% to 10 years is higher than tax revenue for tax and social contributions. That is, this model is calculated, even in the tax field." Federal Minister! If this model is calculated, i.e. if you have even higher tax revenues, because, as you claim – and I even think so – the construction industry would boost, I ask you: Why don't we have this position in the budget? Why was this not decided in the context of the budget accompanying legislation? Why didn't you act again? Federal Minister! You are a great announcer, but unfortunately you are a heavy implementation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And, unfortunately, the Austrian economy must live on the government bank with these pressures of implementation. Mr Federal Minister, you will finally fulfil your duties, and take action in the interests of the Austrian economy!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7578	I call Mr Ellmauer. Time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7600	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear scandalizers and blackseers from the "F"! I think one is undisputed. The fact that the economy in Austria is currently on the rise can be read in any newspaper. The fact that the economic research institutes had to revise the forecasts up twice is also known to everyone. And we also know that we have an economic growth of at least 2.5 for the coming year, if not 3%, Mr Prinzhorn. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, a few words on the budget chapter. The chapter Bauten differs from the previous year due to the extensive changes in the field of the Infrastructure Act and the consequences of the revision of the Federal Road Finance Act, changes that we have jointly decided before the summer break. This is to be taken into account when considering the figures of this budget. In the Federal estimates of 1997, the figure was still 16.67 billion in expenditure for road companies, Federal Roads A and S, and the approach for 1998 was relatively low with 7.69 billion. On the other hand, with a budget of 434 million schilling, the chapter on the disaster fund is slightly higher than 50 million. I would like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for the fact that several avalanches already started can now be completed and new ones launched. In the area of roads alone, the outsourced road companies account for 6.3 billion schilling, which the budget chapter of buildings shrinks. As a result of the disbursement, revenue for the budget is naturally also reduced. The revenue from Title 642 only reaches more than 1.6 billion in the previous year. - As far as the numbers are concerned. How is it ordered about the infrastructure in Austria? What is realized? – From the point of view of tourism and from the point of view of the mayors and municipalities, local experiences must be treated as a priority. The guest still likes to come by car or bus. It appreciates its mobility and therefore expects modern connections. But not only do the guests suffer from the high traffic density and congestion in the city transits, but also for the domestic population, the traffic load often exceeds the tolerable level. Therefore, in Upper Austria alone, 25 transit projects with a projected sum of 3 billion schillings have been rowed to the highest level of urgency. Federal Minister! An increase in budget resources in this area would be desirable and necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! It is important that the Federal Government delegate the competences for the construction of federal roads, including the necessary financial resources, to the countries. The transformation of the federal roads brings a number of advantages. Every additional move means time loss. Therefore, it is useful to concentrate the decisions in the Federal State concerned. The federal government should be reserved only for competence in the development of trans-regional routes. Environment impact assessments and water law issues are also expected to take over the countries at federal roads. The vignette as a benefit fee has proved itself. In particular, the low administrative burden must be highlighted as positive. Meanwhile, it is becoming increasingly clear that an Austrian pioneer role in road pricing would be expensive and risky. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Very interesting! Then why did you write it into the government agreement?]] I am therefore in favour of a solution on a European level, so that we do not, in particular, suspend our transport companies from the risk of retaliation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The last pictures of strikes from France have shown impressively that national actions in this area have a pan-European impact. The new ten-day vignette available from December with free choice of the first day of validity is to be considered as extremely positive from the point of view of tourism. Austria has a powerful, well-developed transport system. It is therefore appropriate to justify appropriate use fees. Against the background of the necessary budgetary discipline and in view of the sustainable achievement of the convergence criteria, a sound proposal has been drawn up with the budget chapter Bauten, which I would like to give my support to in the interests of the infrastructure expansion and the entire population of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7655	I call Mrs Rossmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7677	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! You know very well, you are responsible for the fact that in recent years the tourism industry in Austria has lost 50 billion schilling in revenue. We liberals have constantly warned against this, have constantly called on the government to finally take action, but nothing has happened. Nothing happened from your side! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now we are facing the ruins of the first insolvency. I was at the Gastronomy Fair in Salzburg and can assure you: The next insolvency is rolling. It will not reach the sum mentioned, but probably the number of insolvencys, and only because of the introduction of the taxation of recovery profits. It is quite logical that tax advisors advise their insolvent clients, as soon as possible, before the 1. January 1998 to conduct the resolution. But you know that very well anyway. And what are you doing about it, Minister? – They switch around millions of almost full-page ads throughout Austria. [[The speaker shows a magazine.]] You told us in committee that costs 1.5 million. They have also informed us in the Committee on Budgets, which must be presented. Therefore, you turn ads on because press conferences do not bring anything and the journalists do not report accordingly. You'd prefer ad circuits. You have to imagine that! But it's no wonder. Such things could not even be reported by journalists. Do you know what is in this listing under the heading "Sensely Policy for Entrepreneurs and Consumers"? – The Hohe Haus will be interested in this –: "We" – the Minister – "demand better laws!" – They demand better laws! They're in the government demanding better laws. Furthermore, you demand dynamicization in this listing. . I only remember the rules of commerce or the painful pension scheme. Or: They demand satisfaction of entrepreneurs. – You demand this as a minister! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] They make the laws and demand satisfaction of entrepreneurs! That's laughing! Furthermore, you demand satisfaction of consumers. – I'm just thinking about the vignette solution. Now the scraper's coming for the pickerl. This is your economic policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I must tell you, I am outraged – and the Austrian people certainly do. You switch to tax fees Austria-wide ads because you cannot implement your concerns in the government. That's the fact. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Baldrian! Baldrian!]] They were the ones who first took this path. You were nothing better, Mrs Fekter. Do you know what this ad circuit is in my eyes? – This is your capitulation as Minister of Economic Affairs, because as Minister of Economic Affairs, you are forced to place advertisements to reveal your demands and concerns. There is a Council of Ministers, and there are many other possibilities. You can even encourage your ministry to draw up appropriate templates. But what are you doing? - You turn ads on. Unfortunately, the speaking time is over because I leave my colleague Schweitzer for another minute. [[Abg. Grabner: Thank God!]] I can only tell you, Minister: Do you act, or else will She really – and this is serious – is one of the most unable economic ministers in this Republic to enter history!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7785	The next speech is by Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7806	Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to make it as emotional as my predecessor, and I do not want to join her in any way. But I still have a happy message: Thanks to the efforts of the Federal Government and also of the Federal Minister who sits behind me, it has been decided yesterday on the OMC Board that among the 106 apprentices employed there, another 20 are also taken up voluntarily. I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for these efforts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: With this petrol price driver you can already afford that!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me briefly to make a few comments on the construction industry, especially in terms of construction and civil engineering. On the building of buildings, just a few remarks in the direction that in the last six seven years, thanks to a large initiative by the Socialist Group, huge numbers of new dwellings have been built in Austria. The offer is currently in an order that the rental prices are already starting to fall. That's a good news. I can also say that the 1998 budget for housing development has been increased accordingly compared with 1997. It is true, however, that the promotion of housing from the countries which distribute it should in future be a little more intelligent in use and, above all, in the old building. In the cities, it is primarily intended to promote old house renovations, which are particularly intensive in employment and can also boost the construction industry and all other related industries accordingly. I hope that Vienna, where this is already happening to a large extent, will have a corresponding role model for the other federal states. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to mention that in the field of civil engineering in recent months the focus has been on the distribution of ASFINAG. This new ASFINAG has on the one hand the task of completing the gap in the high-level road network and, on the other, of managing the road. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to point out once again what you have said in the Committee, namely that 2,8 billion schillings have been taken over the vignettes for cars, but only 300 million shillings for trucks up to 12 tonnes, and that the tax on road use has only 600 million shillings, which is not the ASFINAG but the Minister for Finance. As far as road pricing for trucks is concerned – the figures speak a clear language – I would ask you to be active with us and, as far as possible, to comply with the law that we have jointly decided to comply with the dates. I would also think that the industry – and I have been confirmed by broadcasts again today – is quite able to introduce road pricing also for trucks – I stress this again in time. I would ask for the appropriate support here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7848	Next word: Mr Ing. Nut trees. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7869	Mr President. Federal Minister! The 1998 budget is a further continuation of the previous budgetary policy. Unnecessarily, important things are not taken into account as in previous years. There are no approaches to structural reforms, there are no approaches to reducing additional labour costs, there are no approaches to reducing the regulatory density. – And precisely those budget items that would strengthen the economy, namely research and development, export offensive and further training. The fact that the 1998 budget contains no objectives, such as measures to reduce the trade deficit or improve the equity of SMEs, has only been mentioned by the wayside. Now a short time for technology and research funding. Originally, the Federal Chancellor, the Finance Minister and you, Dr. Farnleitner to increase the cost of technology and research funding through an additional technology billion, thus significantly increasing the Austrian research rate, which is well below the OECD average of 1.55 percent. These promises were announced in great media, but what does the truth look like? – Professor Dr. Van der Bellen has already read to you the letter of FFF President Frantsits to Mr. Federal Chancellor – I am saving myself the repetition; I wanted to do exactly the same. But, Mr Federal Minister, the answer you have given in your speech is not satisfactory, just as your written answer to my question is, why the funds for the FFF have been previously reduced from 630 million to 470 million. In addition, Mr Federal Minister, it becomes more than clear that this year's export increases are solely due to the softer schilling. The Wifo economic test of October also confirms a persistent domestic demand. Why? – Because the burden measures of the government have damaged the purchasing power and made it impossible to make comprehensive reforms. They're still up to this day. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Austria's economy is slowly being driven away by the further loss of international competitiveness. And the government does not observe the development in the capital market either. For the capital has just proved "flying", Mr. Federal Minister, as the establishment of Vorarlberger Banks in Switzerland. They want to meet investors who are fleeing from the euro. I give you the following example: The average German investor brings 150 000 D-Mark to Austria. Under Vorarlberger Banks, the fear is that the flow of capital could make a bow around our banks in Vorarlberg in the future. They are building up the euro with their own branches in Switzerland and Liechtenstein, after all, they want to keep up with the lucrative flight of capital from Germany. Within a short time, a branch of the second Vorarlberger Bank was established in the canton of St. Gallen, in the middle of the old town of St. Gallen. The Executive Director of the Hypo-Bank Vorarlberg, Jodok Simma, said: This is because some of our EU customers want their money in a country that will not belong to the EU in the medium term. Following the money and capital flows, we want to lead our customers, not any partner, but ourselves, because some want not only the currency of flight to the euro, but also the country to do so. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it! That's fact! You just ignore it, Minister of State!]] Federal Minister! That's the situation. The Federal Government is constantly talking about additional jobs. However, this example shows that jobs are already being transferred to Switzerland. Your policy, Mr Federal Minister, will not create any more jobs in Austria. This budget does not take account of employment policy in any way, and the unilateral fixation of measures for the implementation of the Maastricht criteria is being diverted from the important issues. How else would it be possible for this "creative accounting" to work with tricks in the order of nearly 60 billion schilling – if you look through the budget carefully, you get that number? – Explain this difference to me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! This is a subject which, like the Faust on the eye, matches the problem of toll refugees, which we have in large numbers in Vorarlberg. Most of the foreigners arriving from Germany, who are shopping in Switzerland and now want to invest their money there, have fled to the municipal streets of Vorarlberg – to the detriment of thousands of citizens who can no longer take it in this form. Please bring these drivers back to the higher-ranking federal roads! In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In summary, Minister of State: A budget, consisting of tricks, a budget with additional burdens on citizens – the tax and tax increases alone are over 10 billion – a budget without visible approaches to structural improvements will probably not be able to solve the problems of the future. Regrettably, the youth will be abstained from the future perspective for another year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7952	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have 3 minutes until the interruption at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7973	Mr President. Dear Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is now just pretty slow too much for me that here you always make everything bad, regret the youth, and in this Austrian population on the part of the economy everything is always bad. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There are always only negative forecasts here, everything is made bad. – It is not so bad in our country! This country has better data than many other countries in this European area. Economic data go up, which proves that the course taken is the right way. And you can sing and chat and everything you want, no one will believe you, for this government, together with its ministers, has gone the right way! [[on the liberals]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All of Europe is envying us. You must admit that! Be so honest and admit that the way to much of the Austrian People's Party is due to our vice-president Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, who has often prevailed despite strong counterwinds. Without the determination, dear friend Blünegger, we would have a budget deficit of 8 per cent instead of one of 2.8 per cent, not such a low inflation rate of 1.2 per cent, no such low unemployment rates in international comparison and no increase in the export economy so important to us. I would remind you that every second job in Austria depends on the export industry. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] I consider the increase in Austrian export power to be the most important strategic step towards strengthening the Austrian economy and therefore I am very pleased about the financial increase of the Austrian export funding funds. This shows that we have recognized the signs of time very well, that our heads are not in the sand, but are active in economic and employment policy. We have created 3 000 additional apprenticeships through our initiatives. There is an ever-increasing cooperation with agriculture. Every person employed in agriculture, each member of the peasantry in Austria brings another job in the industrialized or downstream sector in Austria. Jobs are not created by the administration of the unemployed, but by a functioning economy that supports and strengthens its efforts. The example of South Styria, where I come from and where over the last few years more than 14,000 additional jobs have been created, shows that much commitment and will to change can move a lot. There is the middle class at home: Over 400 small and medium-sized enterprises are responsible for employment and employment, and they are also moving a little further. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Mrs. Colleague! They also pay taxes! Mr President. I conclude by saying: The future only means a chance for the brave. Ladies and gentlemen! With Zauders and regrets, we do not create the necessary renewal, I mean also the renewal of our thinking and action. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Healthy to Zweytick!]] Mr. Stadler! You could bring a little more constructiveness! That would bring us further in this country than dead-pity and bad luck! I wish you all the best for the future! I wish you more involvement in good ideas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Vorarlberg there are other conditions than in other countries, in Styria as well. But we all live in Austria, and here we go, as a whole, on. One can also see and represent this in Europe; comparable measurements prove this to us. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 15.0 1
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8059	I would also like to say that the motion for a resolution previously selected was accordingly tabled and supported and is therefore under negotiation. Short debates on deadline applications
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8080	Negotiations on the IX Advisory Group will now be interrupted at around 15 o'clock so that a short debate can be held – as announced earlier today. The current short debate concerns the request by Members Rosenstingl and colleagues who have requested that the Transport Committee report on the motion for a resolution 97/A (E) on a permanent system of public transport be limited to a time limit of 9. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member After the end of this debate, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place. After that, another short debate will take place. We are going into the debate. I would point out that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. First, Mr Magistrate. Stadler the word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8121	Mr President. High house! It is remarkable – you are almost getting used to it – that once again – as always, when the liberals want to discuss a subject in Parliament – the respective member of the government shines through abstinence. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: I'm here!]] Highly esteemed Minister of the Interior! You represent Caspar One now? You will probably be his next successor to the Ministry of Transport! Please stay at the Ministry of the Interior so he can't do so much damage again in the Ministry of the Interior! Please don't change! Take over the Ministry of Transport! This is a failure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] However, I would like to point out once again that it is remarkable that, for example, yesterday, during the entire debate on the Federal Chancellor's Office of Chancellors' Chapter, for example, it was not a single time in the House! Obviously, he ignores the High House. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He's scared!]] He is not only afraid, we have seen this in the last emergency, but he ignores the House because Parliament ultimately doesn't care about him. Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, we have liberals from the Minister of Transport on 28 October. In a motion for a resolution in April 1994, a legal basis for the financing and organisation of public transport is required. This was rejected by the coalition. We have been promised that this will be settled soon. A second request was made on 30 July. ==References== He was shubbled, and due to the early elections of the National Council, he eventually became obsolete a year later. Ladies and gentlemen! As a result, in January 1996, we made the third request to make the financing and organisation of public transport on a clear legal basis. This request was made after almost a year, on 21 January. In November 1996, the Committee on Transport finally discussed it, but then again shoved on the grounds that the Minister of Transport was currently in the process of finalising a local financing law; it was an internal preliminary review. Ladies and gentlemen! At the next Committee meeting on 25 May. The request is not on the agenda again on November! One does not want to treat it again because the internal preliminary review, which has already taken place x-times, has again led to a result equal to zero. That is why the whole matter is re-buffed and not solved. [[Abg. Eder: That's right, as usual, isn't it?]] - Yes, that's right! I can prove it to you. I know you have some problems with the date sequence, but this is understandable, believe me! I call you date for date! Ladies and gentlemen! Public transport finance involves dishonesty, in particular with regard to the two major companies in the hands of the Federal Government, Post and Railways. In this context, Mr Edeller, Mr von der Bundesbahn, Mr Hums and Mr Sigl would now be required. All of you would now be required to get up and say: Let us finally treat the railways with a little more honesty! Ladies and gentlemen! I remember yesterday's newspaper articles! All were amazed when they read – to give an example of how dishonestly the debate with the ÖBB is going on – that the government had just reached an agreement, after which the rules of retirement, which are supposed to be harmonised, should suddenly apply to the Bundesbahners. To the reactions of the Austrian Federal Railways I will come to speak immediately. Mr Hums! I drew your attention yesterday. What you should have known yesterday and what I have black on white in front of me today is that the Federal Government was already on the 10th. The Council of Ministers decided on the following: Minister Caspar ==References== It called on the Austrian Federal Railways to open negotiations immediately with the staff of the Austrian Federal Railways in order to ensure that, in November 1997, it was possible to adopt a harmonisation of the right of retirement for railways. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do we have December?]] Mr Parnigoni! If you hold back for half a minute, I'll tell you what the problem is! The problem lies in the fact that this protocol has been kept silent for a month because, in the meantime, the personnel representation elections took place at the Austrian Federal Railways. The Austrian railways have been told the untruth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are held in front of the personnel election, which took place on 5th and 6th February. It has not been said that they want to intervene in their pension rights! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] Mr Hums! Is that what I'm telling you now, untrue? Did you know what the government was up to? Did you tell a railer what the government is up to? – Yesterday the bomb was dropped! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who signed this?]] This was first agreed in the Council of Ministers. That's what everyone decided. And yesterday, an agreement was reached on the implementation of what had already been decided secretly in the Council of Ministers with the signatures of Mr Molterer, Mr Edlinger, Mr One and so on; I do not know who else was there by the coalition. Edellinger, Molterer and One have definitely been there. Since 10. On October 1st, you took the railways around the nose. Since 10. You have been silent in October that you intend to affect the pension right of the railways too! Mr Hums! Correct me if I say something false! Since 10. October – is the government's protocol known to you? [[Abg. Dietachmayr: What does this have to do with the deadline request?]] Since 10. You have told the railways on October that you intend, in a pact with the Austrian People's Party, to ensure that the railways' pensions are treated as well as all the other pensions! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: What does the Freedom Party want from the railways?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you did not say about what Mr Hums thanked you yesterday – I must praise you today, I hope you will not suffer too much in your group. – mentioned in a press release, was the subject of my speech last week: I have accused the government of not harmonizing political relations. – Mr Hums! This is also the subject of your press release! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Stadler! What is your position?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hums.]] Mr. Hums! You are quoted with a certain Mr. Nowak, your successor, in the "Kurier". That's what it says: "If the legislator should intervene in the contracts of the railways, a dam will break, as one prophesies in the SPÖ club: What about the politicians then? What about the National Bank Agreements? What about the chambers and social security contracts that changed their systems only for new entrants, as the railways did?’” – End of the quote. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr. Hums! You don't have to be embarrassed! You're right! The politicians are addressing it a few years before, the social security companies are directing it, the chamber officials are also directing it, but now you want to cash with the railways, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is a policy of dishonesty! Mr. Edler from the Bundesbahn! You belong to the railway nobility, you have directed it as a politician! Mr. Edler from the Bundesbahn! They belong to the railway nobility that has directed it because you also belong to the politician's nobility! They've judged it! But now the little railways are supposed to come along, and that's what you've kept to them for a month! [[Calls and calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] You have had a month, taking into account the personnel representation elections of 5th and 6th. November, the small railways are hiding that you want to intervene in their pension rights! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this dishonest policy, we want to clean up! This dishonest policy brings So far as we can get you at least once a week! – If you have something reasonable and reasonable to report, go to the speaker’s desk! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Stadler! Tell me the position of the liberals!]] But don't crack around in the front row! You should implement an honest policy in your party with which you do not so massively divulge the railways that belong to the original SPÖ, such as You have done this now, ladies and gentlemen! I wouldn't crack, I'd be ashamed of it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: What do you want? Say it!]] I would be ashamed if my own party knew for a month that they would ask the railwayspensionists to register, but they would not tell them in time before the election! – We will tell you that in committee! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Finally call us the position of the liberals!]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Say it now! Give us your position!]] Mr President, I should like to thank If you listen for half a minute, I'll call you our position. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: I'm asking for this!]] Our position is that you and you and your politicians have to make the start! Only then do you have the democratic legitimacy to cut the little people's pension!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8404	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8426	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already very strange how the Rules of Procedure are interpreted here by some rulers. I read in the motion which is now before the debate that it is about setting a deadline for the Transport Committee to report on a permanent system for public transport. Mr Stadler, however, refers to the debate and talks about a completely different subject. It is not for me to correct the President, but I would like to say that I think it is very strange if, in this context, the right to pension is now discussed by the railways, even if it is known – and Mr Stadler should know that too! – that the first round of negotiations with the railways at an hour has just ended. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You must have noticed something: You have to ask for the very special gift, urgent requests, urgent requests or deadline debates whenever you know exactly that the competent Federal Minister has an urgent other obligation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] I cannot imagine that the FPÖ does not know that at the same time, starting at 3 p.m., a large conference of all the United Nations ministers responsible for the environment and transport will take place at the Austrian Center, which will hold the two ministers Bartenstein and One Unit at item 1 at the same time. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It was known that today is National Councilplenum!]] You always do it! And then put yourself here and complain that the competent minister is not here! Your game is clear! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] It is dangerous to be praised as the Federal Minister of the State of Städler. I would take a very careful look at this praise, Mr Federal Minister, because on the next occasion there will again be a very different situation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Now it's up to you. I would now like to make a few brief comments on the local financing law. A future Transport Finance Act aims to lay down the organisational and financial basis for public passenger and regional transport in compliance with the EU's requirements and recommendations. This law provides the basis for the associated design of transport associations and for the better use of the potential of public transport. We Social Democrats also have very fixed ideas for this local transport financing law. Among other things, the limits of transport associations should be optimised according to Pendler's currents. This may also include a cross-border area. The aim is to achieve customer-friendly planning and organisation, even using private companies and private modes of transport. Responsibility for proceeds should be returned to the company. There is currently a 100% cost cover. If this is returned to the companies, there is also the possibility of strengthening entrepreneurship in this way. The entrepreneur should decide for himself whether and how often he travels a route. In the case of cost-covering routes, this will not be a problem, problems could only occur with non-cost-covering routes. In the future, therefore, transport rights are to be allocated within the transport network to those undertakings which need the lowest aid. A number of other options are also included in this law. I would like to point out, as an example, that the municipalities and the countries are asked to take the funds themselves and to order studies to do so. This, for example, has made the city of Linz together with the country of Upper Austria, and also the district of Linz-Land from which I come. The Prognos study was prepared, and we have implemented and, together with the country and eight neighbouring communities, we have achieved an additional study in which certain traffic flows in Linz-Land are precisely analysed. Immediate action can also be taken without additional means by improving the involvement of different modes of transport and by better coordinating the times and points of departure. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion: All of this should be used to achieve cost optimization through the appropriate use of market-economy thinking in companies at the same level of comfort. The SPÖ will ensure that the Transport Finance Act is adopted in 1998!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8487	The next speaker is Mr Johann Kurzbauer. Same speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8512	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is a long-standing demand from the Austrian People's Party that measures be taken to coordinate public transport. According to the competent Federal Minister One within the framework of the discussions of the Budget Committee at the end of October is now a law which deals with the regional In the final consultation phase and this month a preliminary review of this draft is to be carried out. The law is intended to increase the influence of the countries and communities, i.e. more participation. As mayor, I welcome these positive approaches in principle. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The increased involvement of the local authorities in particular, which is best aware of the situation on the ground, would make it possible to obtain an attractive offer, which is appropriate to the needs. This need for justice should lead to greater acceptance by the customer in conjunction with a better equipment in the result. However, it is also necessary that measures be put in place to improve the coordination of rail and road. Finally, these measures should benefit citizens who bring something to their citizens, because if they bring something to the citizens, this will also benefit our communities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is not possible for the municipalities to be used as payers, because the coordination of transport is ultimately in the trans-regional interest. This is why the environmental importance of rail must also be taken into account. Financial instruments should be found that consist primarily of existing sources of financing, such as mineral oil tax or composite subsidies. The municipalities must not be taxed in addition. However, if other financing options are needed and local authorities are still burdened, they should be given the opportunity to open up other sources of income, so that the local financing law does not lead to any additional burden on the communities in the final result. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My group is in principle in favour of this new local financing law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8569	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8587	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The request of the Member of Parliament Rosenstingl, in accordance with § 43 para. 1 Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Communities It is probably justified to request a request made in January 1996 because a request which has been here since the beginning of 1996 should also be discussed in the Committee. We will therefore agree to the request for a deadline. However, it is now clear in the debate that the content of the request itself, at least for Mr Stadler, seems to have not been and is not essential. If you look at the motion for a resolution – I am only allowed to say so much in terms of content! – you will then find that it requires that a "sustainable overall solution to the issues of the organisation and financing of public transport, which is in line with the principles of fair competition between transport undertakings and modes of transport" be decided here in the House. Mr Rosenstingl did not find it worth the effort to express a little what the principles and criteria of fair competition should be. I can still recall that, when there was a meeting with the "Organisation Passenger" at the Westbahnhof, in which representatives of other groups from this House, for example the SPÖ, had not come, Member Rosenstingl, and that is because he seems to object to contentious discussions on this issue. I think, Mr Parnigoni, that we should not, of course, spare the Blamage of this proposal in committee, and that is why I think it would be useful to agree to the deadline. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8624	Next speaker is Mrs Gabriela Moser. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8642	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the first time that local transport is practically burning us under the nails, and unfortunately, as I fear, it will not be the last time. You know that particularly in the area of agglomeration centres, the pollution caused by individual transport, which is also at the expense of public transport, is very, very, very large. You also know that a transport conference at the UN Economic Conference in Vienna will be held in Vienna on the environment and transport, which will be signed tomorrow, with a view to reducing individual transport in the urban and conurbation centres, for the various environmental, transport and cost-policy reasons. Against this global background, we must address the regional and local challenge of a local transport financing law, especially in the light of the fact that the majority of the population – known to be the majority of the population – suffers from the fact that there is no sufficient supply in public transport. The reason for this is not least that funding is hanging in the air. They certainly know that, unlike men, women have to deal with a variety of ways. They are not only about the way from apartment to work, but also about the shopping and care of children. This results in a network of roads which is difficult to handle under the given conditions, in the event of reduction, bleeding and financial famine of public transport. Women are forced to drive by car, as it were. Unfortunately, this will also have a negative impact on the pollutant balance and on transport behaviour, if not political counter-control. That is why I think it is particularly important that the concern to introduce the financing of public transport to a system, even if it comes from the FPÖ, is strongly supported. It is only through this financing law and the combination of national, municipal and federal interests that we are given a financial instrument that is largely diverted towards public transport, which is the only alternative to the agglomerations. Study the broadcasts of businessmen who were recently to be read in the APA. It points out that virtually 50 percent of the emissions of pollutants are due to congestion and road congestion. This pollution caused by urban pollution is due to a false transport policy, which makes little money flow towards public transport and, above all, divides public transport into federal, regional and local authorities, and fails to achieve a pooling. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why, despite the fact that the Liberals' request has not been properly served today, we will support this motion for a resolution and a deadline. I would have liked to have a more objective discussion, because the financing of public transport is not just a command of the hour, but a command of the late century and the next millennium. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8696	The next speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8718	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Barmüller – he has already disappeared again! In contrast to the Liberal Forum, we have tabled an application and want to discuss this request. The Liberal Forum was inactive in this area. You have not contributed anything to the debate on local transport financing at all! I hope, however, that the Liberal Forum will not necessarily send us Mr Barmüller when this issue is dealt with in committee. I would like to have a discussion partner who understands a little more about local transport funding than Mr Barmüller! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Dietachmayr! There is nothing strange about this discussion at all. We liberals must show the inactivity and dishonesty of transport policy, which the Social Democrats are constantly running. It's like this now – you don't like to hear it, but I still have to hold it –: They said that there were the first negotiations with the railways today. However, I know that we are already on this day after the personnel representation elections and not before the personnel representation elections! That proves that we are right. You told the ÖBB staff the untruth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have not told ÖBB staff before the personnel representation elections that you are planning to intervene. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] Mr Dietachmayr! It won't be better, you're bad at it! 'Cause it's on the 10th. 10. In 1997, a Council of Ministers decision was adopted and you did not inform the railways. It is unfortunate that the railway representatives are sitting here in your ranks, a Mr Hums, a Mr Edler and so on, they have not informed the railways either. It is unfair to make yourself strong in the afterlife and to say that one will not allow it anyway. You didn't say before the personnel election: Ladies and gentlemen! There may be interventions in the future; we need to talk about it. To present to colleagues railers before the personnel elections everything as if nothing could happen at all is unfair transport policy on the part of the Social Democrats. But that's just the typical policy you're running! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Parnigoni! They're also one of the privileges defenders. They always defend their own privileges. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mr Rosenstingl! One question: What does pension law have to do with transport policy?]] You were strong with the politicians, and at the political pensions you have defended everything that is possible. Why don't you defend the Railways' pensions? Why Have You didn't say that before the personnel representation elections? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With others you access, but see that you have your own sheep in the dry. We reject this policy! Mr Parnigoni! [[Abg. Parnigoni: I would like to know what this has to do with transport policy! Explain this to me! This is a misuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] Nothing is a abuse! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Of course!]] You yourself are a typical example of how you deal with transport policy. Dear colleague! You have promised us in the Committee that our request for local financing will be dealt with in the autumn. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It's not over yet!]] Autumn is over! This request concerning the financing of transport is not on the agenda of the next Committee meeting. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is expected that there will be no more meetings. As a Member of Parliament, it is really not reassuring if I am told that the Minister now has a draft law in advance. Mr Parnigoni! How do you feel about your self-esteem as a Member if as such you cannot make the requirements for local transport financing?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Very!]] You could make these rules in the Committee if we were to deal with our request. Just as you promised us that our request would be dealt with, just as it was promised that all the problems relating to transport policy would be solved, you treated the railways unfairly: Before the personnel elections, you have not told the railways that interventions are planned. The railways believed that their pensions were insured. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This has nothing to do with transport policy! That still has nothing to do with it!]] They have also behaved accordingly and now have to live by something quite different from what they were promised. This is dishonest policy towards the "smallest" in our society. You Social Democrats always have only one point in mind, namely to ensure political privileges, just as the ÖVP wants to secure chamber privileges. But the "little" forgets both the Social Democrats and the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals call for more honesty in transport policy and for the problems of transport to be solved at last! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We therefore call for the examination of our request for local transport financing! I ask you to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8879	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades, the Transport Committee for reporting on the motion for a resolution on permanent public transport arrangements, a time limit of 9. This year's annual report is to be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal by Mr Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8911	We will reach the next short debate. It concerns the request of the honourable Member. Peter and comrades, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Request 546/A concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act and the Corporate Tax Act, a period of up to 5 years. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative In this case too, after the debate on the request has ended, the vote will be taken. We're going into the consultations. The same rules apply. Mr Mag. Peter establishes the application. Speech time: 10 minutes. All other speakers then have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8938	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the opportunity to discuss an essential matter. It's about the Rehabilitation Profit Act that we're going to take on 11th. In July 1997 the Commission submitted an application. It is actually about the equity situation of Austrian companies once again – as has been so often. This is a permanent focus of the economic policy debate, since especially small and medium-sized enterprises are relatively low in equity, which already poses a threat to the company in any smaller crisis. Accountable equity in the enterprises is, of course, historical values; historical values that have grown for years and decades during which the company has existed. They are still defined by early depreciation and, in particular, by not being able to write down grounds and land they have in their company's assets. But the main reason for the low level of equity – and this is the basis of what we are discussing today – is ultimately the weakness of the profits of companies. The costs faced by entrepreneurs in a variety of ways clearly result in their having, in many studies in commerce, commerce, transport and, above all, in tourism, very low sales returns and revenues which do not allow a company to accumulate equity in the company itself. The second reason for the poverty of equity is undoubtedly the right of assessment which I have now mentioned. You know that a few weeks ago, the first reading of a euro balance sheet law, as we have called it, took place. They then proposed calling it "thousands of open-up". I'm right about both names. It is about saying what opportunities we have through a temporary opening of the Trade Code, so that companies that have silent reserves – not all of them with God – and who want to make it voluntary to upgrade their assets by paying an upgrade tax in order to be able to enter international competition in the new currency area with real European balance sheets. The third reason why we have a bad capital situation in Austrian companies is that, after the loss of earnings, the question of the right of assessment is undoubtedly the right of taxation. We tax substances away from businesses. We also did not understand the following, Professor Novotny, that any farm tax collected before withdrawal is a cost factor. We thus increase the cost of the company. I am in favour of any schilling, which is taken from a company, of course has to be subject to full taxation – that is not a question at all – but as long as the money is not taken out of the company, it should be possible in this way to put in place a new investment multiplier and to benefit from new market opportunities. These arguments have so far been refused for ideological reasons – I want to call them "shocks". In tax law, it is very specific that we are going to present the proposal in an application form and tell you why we are calling this new accounting capital, which has become possible through the "Year-thousand-revenues" Act, in which real values are in the balance sheets. We will also explain why the amount of capital in the form of an advance profit is interested by 5 percent or, for example, after the secondary market return; this interest income is taxed with the KESt, as well as the interest income of a bond or a savings account is taxed with the KESt. Only the profit beyond it is taxed in full. All of this has to do with the question of corporate reorganisation. Ladies and gentlemen! A few months ago, they decided on the Company Reorganisation Act and initiated a procedure in which a commercial judge must order an auditor, a specialist, a company that stands at the border to insolvency – they even set the sustainable maturity of debt at 15 years and said that equity should not fall below 8 percent – to undergo a reorganisation procedure. We Liberals have clearly said that we think this business restructuring process is far too static. We think it can't satisfy the dynamics of the economy. You decided. Now what you decided with the Structural Adjustment Act in April 1996 is staggering. They have said that reorganisation gains arising from a compensation, in the case of a reorganisation of businesses, are fully taxed; and this is from 1. January 1998. You've really been in a lousy state. If you do not give our request the consent, do not treat it, that means that a company is going through a reorganisation phase which will either be a silent or an official compensation, and has a recovery profit – that is, the loss of debt – to be paid from the tax. If the loss premium in this company is smaller than the recovery profit, the difference is taxed. But what about the renovation? – Ladies and gentlemen! Rehabilitation is about reorganising the structures of a company and giving it a new backbone – a new package of equity – so that it can experience the future and survive and grow further. If you now "busy" this newly acquired equity in the sense of taxation of recovery profits – be it a capital company or a person company – with 50 percent income tax or 34 percent corporate tax, this means that you are weakening the company by a flow of liquidity and reducing its equity. That can't be serious. You've been there! You have passed a huge structural adjustment law, 78 laws on a strike – we all remember April 1996 when you abolished the recovery profits. Now you have decided a completely different matter, the Company Reorganisation Act. I am very grateful to Mrs Fekter for the fact that it was she who, in discussions in the Ministry of Justice, pointed out that this matter had to be repaired. I also ask her to comment on this and to say how she wants to fix it. We Liberals have made a proposal. We said: That's the point. At least you have to release the reorganisation profits – and this is what our proposal says – from the reorganisation procedure in relation to taxation so that this reorganized company will have a new backbone, new equity, so that it really has a future. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can close with the one I started with: The equity situation in the Austrian companies is in many cases the limiting factor for economic expansion, for the answer to newly identified customer needs. If you are once again subjecting this newly created equity created by corporate reorganisation to full taxation, halve it in the person company or cut it by a third in the capital company, you will narrow the future of the newly renovated company. You can't want that! I would therefore ask you to agree to this proposal for a time limit to deal with this in committee in such a way that we can make this legislative repair in the next plenary debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9029	In the debate itself, speaking times are 5 minutes. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Novotny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9050	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I should first of all like to make a formal observation on this request for a time limit. A meeting of the Financial Committee will be held in December. I can already say to you that we are going to include this item in the agenda for this sitting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] That means: In terms of content, this matter has not been dealt with, and the request for a deadline has become virtually inconsistency. We will therefore not be able to agree to it. [[Abg. May. Peter: This is a "logic"! Why can't you agree?]] That's the formal side. However, I do not want to hide on the content side. In terms of content, of course, we need to discuss this very serious and consciously, first of all with regard to your general statements on equity capital, and point out that information on the equity capital of the Austrian economy, in a country where, as you know, there are anonymous savings books and also the assessment legislation creates a wealth of opportunities for silent reserves, is hardly comparable internationally. Now you might say: That's all not good! That's it. That is why I would be very careful from this point of view in international comparisons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Yeah, I'm going to the second point, too. You have to see the following: The development of profits was very massive in the last three to four years, they have increased significantly more than other types of income. [[Abg. May. Peter: Financial investments!]] That is why we also need to see this from this side, I think, with certain caution. I agree with you that you are theoretically – theoretically! – could say: Actually, I don't want to tax companies at all. What I want to tax is personal income. Only: Then you should consistently also tax the assets, otherwise you will not be able to capture an increase in wealth as such in your system at all. If you want to, I would be grateful for this clarification. In the present system, we also need to tax companies, otherwise we would have a tax gap. There are certain incomes which would not at all be taxed; that is, they do not contribute to the general good. However, the country's infrastructure is also used by companies, and it is therefore useful that companies also contribute to the maintenance of this infrastructure, both material and social. As far as the last point is concerned, namely the question – that is the real point of your request – in connection with the profits of rehabilitation, I admit that I am not entirely sceptical of the rules we have made in the company restructuring law. I think it is also useful for us to observe exactly how this really affects whether we have not chosen a procedure that is perhaps too complicated, but I would say that we can only determine it by means of practice. The tax supplement in connection with this procedure is to be seen in conjunction with the rules which we have just taken again with the tax-amendment law, namely the "eternalisation" of the loss proposal. That is to say, we have now created an advantage with this permanent loss premium, but on the other hand we have abolished the regulation on recovery profits. Now you can of course argue: In fact, I would like to have it reversed, I would rather have the profit of rehabilitation, but limited losses for that. You can also talk about it, only: Everything good to want at the same time and to pick out the raisins is a non-illogical development, a development that I would warn against. In addition, you have suggested this yourself, that the current regulation on recovery profits was extremely abusive. One can argue: Maybe we'll find something else. Only: We should never return to the old system, this has not proved to be the case. If you want something else – what we are always willing to talk about – you have to assume that you have to make a choice. It is not possible to pick out the raisins in the tax area. This would be neither in the economic interest nor ultimately in the entrepreneurial interest, because that would mean that the possibilities of the infrastructure, the state, to create the appropriate foundations would be less. I can assure you that we will deal with this matter in detail, but we cannot give you any assurance of material consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9119	The next speaker is Mr Fink. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9140	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Peter, I agree with your statement of reasons on recovery profits. I am of the same opinion here, and I believe that the loss of income gains from the definition of income corresponds to the loss of § 36 from 1998 on the basis of which these incomes were deductible; and, in so far as debt losses were not taxed. I'm of the opinion: As long as we do not leave these reorganisation profits tax-free, this company reorganisation law is dead right. This means that the profits of rehabilitation, these losses of debt, must remain tax-free. If they do not remain tax-free, I think more companies will be driven into bankruptcy than renovated. I therefore agree, in principle, with the view that we in the Committee on Budgets are going to have a say in the content discussion, that we should help the companies which are being rehabilitated. We'll be the 2nd. Wait until December and set the appropriate course in the Financial Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9176	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9197	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! When, in connection with the tax package of § 36 EStG, the tax exemption of the recovery profits, has been replaced, we have from the outset pointed out that this provision is a law which destroys labour and business assets. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore understand the proposal for a deadline, and I am surprised that Mr Novotny believes that he will not agree to this request for a time limit, because this question is still on the second floor. The meeting was held in December. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Very true!]] Is it really true in this House that a government party cannot agree to a request just because it does not come from a government party? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We've already done it!]] How is the self-understanding of a member of a government party? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What's more important?]] I can tell you the following: We liberals will very well agree to this deadline request, because it really "burns" because this provision will be with 1. In January 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the In view of the signals from the Ministry of Finance – for example, Mr. University lecturer Peter Quantschnigg in the "Presse" of the 6th. November: "We don't think of a re-adjustment" – do I wonder who in Austria decides the laws, who determines re-adjustments: the Parliament, so here in the House, or the ladies and gentlemen in the ministry? Nor does Mr Novotny's argument that since the tax package the loss claims have been unlimitedly deductible is not applicable. While it is true that losses are now always deductible, what happens, Mr Professor, if the loss talks are not sufficient to cover the financial recovery profit? – Then the full tax duty enters into force. Also, the argument that there is a double advantage – on the one hand, the tax-free profit of recovery, on the other, an eternal loss premium – is simply not true, because the legal provisions state that losses are initially attributable to the recovery profit, to a previously tax-free share of the total income, and only the loss charge remaining then is to be calculated with current income. Therefore, from a liberal point of view, this provision of the former § 36 EStG should be reintroduced. Mr Peter! At the content of the application for a change in the Income and Corporate Tax Act, I find the restriction to: Rehabilitation gains as a result of a reorganisation procedure within the meaning of the second section of the Company Organisation Act. I do not think that this restriction is a target. If we reintroduce the urgently necessary tax exemption of recovery profits, then only to the fullest extent! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It should also be noted that, by determining to make recovery profits taxable, the State's financial management of the State will be improved vis-à-vis private creditors. The State and its financial management benefit from the debt reduction by private creditors. That really can't be in the inventor's mind! If you do not believe that thousands of jobs in Austria are at risk from the absence of § 36 EStG, ask the credit protection associations. You can present the appropriate numbers there. Finally, I would like to quote Kurt Haendel of the 1870 credit protection association: “This threatens thousands of jobs, destroys corporate assets, imposes additional burdens on the insolvency fund, and only makes the state quite a tax revenue.”... He had the first such cases on the table and estimated that some 4,000 jobs could also be affected by connection insolvency of small suppliers." Ladies and gentlemen! This statement should make us think. We want to create and maintain jobs in Austria, but not destroy them by mad tax laws!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9279	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9301	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Novotny, I would like to refer to some of your comments. None of the Liberals intend to pick out raisins. We have identified a problem of substance and have said that you can quietly forget this provision of law. In my opinion, it is quite clear that if you do not change this by a novel, you will no longer need to talk about a recovery profit in this country, because you simply will not have any more. They cannot then tax anything, because this combination of restructuring provisions and the taxation of recovery profits will simply prevent a successful reorganisation. I do not put my hand in the fire that this will be so in all cases, i.e. in 100 per cent of the recovery cases, but I bet every amount with you that far more than 90 per cent of it will be affected. That must make it clear to all of us that this legal provision is going to be empty! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I want to define and tax a term, that is to say, the profits of rehabilitation, but if this tax is not to be taxed anymore, then it is probably clear enough. Mr Novotny, let me mention something: They claim otherwise there would be gaps in the tax law. I don't see it like you do. I also do not see it in connection with an incomparable capital resource and with anonymous savings books. It is always strange if you tell us about the government fractions that this and that is prevented by the anonymous savings books. We have been demanding for weeks and months, yes, for years: Finally take off the anonymous savings books! Trust this and instead make a decent banking secret! This is in the interests of the savers, the economy and the citizens. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's not an objective reason!]] But I beg you! You are obviously only used to the method of negotiation with your coalition partner that you are only willing to agree to a certain case-law only if you do something about it. Mr Novotny! We believe that decisions on matters must be justified for themselves and that, if they are justified, there must be nothing to do with them! [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is a context!]] That is why I say to you: Leave the loss talks quietly, but enter a moderate settlement with regard to the recovery gains again! Mr Böhacker! I am not of your opinion, even I believe that the old recovery scheme has been misused to a large extent. That's why I see a very meaningful... [[Abg. Böhacker: As long as there are no "everlasting" losses lectures!]] Yes, Mr Böhacker! In my view, there is a useful link, but we can also discuss in the Committee that, while reorganisation profits are exempt from tax, they are limited to certain cases and therefore this new law, which has been adopted in this House, makes sense by means of a new procedure. [[Abg. Böhacker: Only that won't happen!]] Mr Novotny! Let me add a few basics to the asset tax, final taxation of capital incomes et cetera: You know as well as I do that the question of whether wealth is a suitable tax base is a highly ideological one. Nevertheless, I must tell you: It would be worth a controversial discussion on this ideological question, too, if it were to give some results. But we know that our main problem in this context is that we can no longer focus on the wealth in our society and in our economy. The taxpayers could effectively withdraw it if it were a tax base. Therefore, I think we should focus on it, in particular... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: I did not plead for the introduction...!]] I know I'm just answering your statements about reintroducing the property tax. Yes, we can talk about it, only Mr Novotny: It would be far more important if you and your group in the ECOFIN, in which the Federal Minister is, were to make a major plea for it, urgently, urgently, urgently and quickly, quickly – as quickly as possible! – promote European harmonisation efforts in the field of capital taxation, so that it may be possible once again to use another tax base, such as assets or certain asset groups. I therefore also feel that this is particularly urgent, because we know – this is my final sentence, Mr President – that, as work as a tax base no longer has a future and our public tasks still need to be fulfilled, we need to use imagination to find other tax bases. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9415	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9437	Mr President. Federal Minister! The Greens, of course, agree with the Liberals' request today. He refers to a request made jointly by Mr Peter and Mr Haselsteiner and by me. That does not mean, however, that the Greens agree with everything that Mr Peter said today, because he has taken a lot further. Whether the operating tax, if I have understood you correctly, is useful in the taxation of the collection or the non-taxation of the profits collected, is therefore in no way affected. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: No! He didn't mean that!]] It is not a new tax model, but a tax model that has been discussed for a long time, in which I have the same, anyway, concerns like Mr Novotny. I would say that the taxation of the revenue has a certain "charme" because it would also tax the revenue from loss holdings. [[Abg. Böhacker: The removal of capital too!]] We need to discuss the consequences. However, whether it is particularly useful to sterilize profits in certain establishments is more questionable. In the present system, I see an advantage in that there is a certain incentive to diffuse capital in different enterprises. But this is a separate chapter. As far as the rest is concerned, the non-taxation of financial recovery profits, as far as they are derived from the reorganisation procedure, is now somewhat late, as Mr Novotny has said it is on the agenda for the second time. December. – Wonderful, I would say. We are nevertheless voting in favour of the proposal, and you could actually vote in favour of it in these circumstances, because it does not change at all. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Novotny]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Rehabilitation gains, as far as they originate from the reorganisation process, should not be taxed. However, I would also be concerned about the principle of exempting recovery profits as before, even though the loss payments now apply to 'everlasting'. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9496	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request, the Financial Committee for reporting on application 546/A concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act and the Corporate Tax Act, a period of time until 5. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this request for a deadline by Mr Peter to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. That is why we conducted the two short debates. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9536	I will resume the negotiations on the IX Consultative Group on Economic Affairs. Mr Firlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9560	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When Mr. Dr. Farnleitner took up his office a year and a half ago, many meant that it might not be so bad if someone from the Chamber continued the reform projects which his predecessor had announced but did not implement. – At that time I had joined this opinion. Unfortunately, after a short period of time it was clear that Mr Farnleitner was not meeting the expectations. Half a year after he took office, there was again a big economic debate in this House, in which I had to review my judgment down. I thought at the time that the Minister of State has very good ideas, but he is a theorist and cannot prevail. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this opinion, I was encouraged when the Federal Minister for Road Construction – the extension of the ASFINAG financing – had the greatest difficulty in persuading his opinion among the national leaders. Ladies and gentlemen! Today I have to re-evaluate my personal judgment. I am now ready to tell you, Mr Federal Minister, that you have a massive problem of credibility, and I also want to tell you what this results from. Five weeks ago, Mr. Dr. Haider accused you of unlawfully awarding the vignettes which fall within the competence of your ministry. You, Mr Federal Minister, have made haste to say immediately that this is not at all true and Dr. Haider is saying the untruth. – Today is in the "Kronen Zeitung": "Million order for vignettes has been unlawfully awarded, and the Court of Auditors is carrying out massive criticism of the procedures of the authorities." [[Call out to the liberals: so, so! Aha!]] The main thing, Mr. Federal Minister, is that you have left out your anger to Dr. Haider once again and sued him of untruth. But now you're standing there like a cast puddle! I have to say that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: A black puddle!]] Federal Minister! You don't make any politics like that! Don't be angry with me, but if you make such full-bodied statements in the direction of Dr. Haider, then you must You can also please if these are clearly rejected! I'm curious about what you're saying. But this is not the first time you have formulated something relatively salopp, which does not stand up to a closer and critical assessment. I just remember what you have done in recent months on the issue of "Euro", and I just want to take an example. ==References== On September 9, 1997, the Minister of Economic Affairs made it clear that Dr. Haider was working with the anti-Euro popular desire for "people's damnation". Federal Minister Farnleitner also said on the European phone that it was only for the FPÖ-Obmann that he could have a thief fun for so long as the people went on glue. But then it'll be even better. I believe that you, Mr Federal Minister, have the argument that the argumentative air is becoming thinner and thinner for you. In the same Euro phone hour, you answered on 2. September of a "patriotin" who just called herself such and who hopes that the euro will not come and our schilling will remain, with a statement from your grandmother, who once meant that it was completely wretched, as the money was called, that one had the main thing. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner.]] It's in the APA, Minister of State. Last time you told me not to believe everything in the APA. But I depend on messages. – I just mean, the air in your euro argument has become so indescribably thin that it would be better for you to stop speaking in the Euro-thematics. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Bowl has also disputed everything!]] Federal Minister! In all the technical discussions that can be brought here: They also belong to those who do not comply with their supervisory obligations. You know, in East Asia, a serious currency crisis is under way. Although this crisis has caused home-made causes, it has been smeared by the International Monetary Fund. We also have a representative in this body, who is under your supervision of my knowledge, but nothing was actually done there. Federal Minister! Finally, I do not get to express my appreciation as follows: If you had three eyes, I would attest to the first eye having the gray star and on the second, the European eye, to be half-blind, and at the Asian eye you are completely blind at all!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9663	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9684	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to return you to the levels of tourism. I would like to address three issues in this contribution to the budget debate. First of all, I would like to take a positive view of the fact that, together, we have succeeded in increasing the budget approach to "Austrian advertising" by 50 million schilling. Especially now, it is necessary to use the existing resources operationally so that we operate advertising at a time when it is necessary to make our offers clear to the guests. Federal Minister! On this occasion, I would like to point out to the Austrian advertising that the cooperation of the Federal Chamber of Commerce with the external offices of the "Austrian Advertising" is only useful if it really brings cost savings, if the professional qualifications of the representatives of the Federal Chamber of Commerce are given to the foreign trade offices and if it does not, more or less, result in a subsidy from the Federal Chamber of Commerce. I refer to a statement made by you on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the ÖHT today, in which you meant – and you have my support – that the tourism companies are finally members of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, so that the Chamber has something to do with its members outside the world without charge. You will also have our support. The "Austrian Advertising" needs its money to operate operationally with many possibilities very diverse advertising. Ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion one should also consider whether the "Austrian advertising" should not be converted into a capital company. Second comment: I am very glad that the budget has indicated that tourism promotion could be changed in the direction that it corresponds to a resolution which I have for a long time forced: that cooperation between the regions will become possible and that cooperation between businesses can lead to increased efficiency. In my view, this is a sensible common opportunity. My third comment concerns opposition policy. I have shown this and above all the previous debate that opposition policy, in particular the FPÖ, looks like it is quoted in the "NEWS" with reference to the party-obmann Haider: Instead of an attitude, Haider has an unblemished, chameleon-like marketing strategy. – That is the final point, and you have proved it again today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9730	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9752	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister Farnleitner! Ladies and gentlemen. If I have correctly understood the hymns of praise over the budget I have heard from the government coalition, I feel like living in another state or even on the moon. For Mr Puttinger has certainly forgotten one thing with the praises he has presented here today: He has forgotten that he has not taken unemployment seriously in Austria and has not even considered the comparisons. If I compare that 214 293 workers were unemployed in October 1996 and 219 383 were unemployed in 1997 in the same month, I see that this year almost 5 100 more people. Each unemployed person, however, shows that the economic policy of the Federal Government is not in order. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of these, 19.55 percent are elderly, over 50 years of age. There is nothing in this area in this budget at all. This is certainly a missing economic policy, and I believe that this is a disaster, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated. Or if I see the fairy tale comparison of German Chancellor climate: The numbering with the apprentices has been praised here, but it is presented differently in today's "Kurier": "Climate teaching promises" is there. Mr Koppler! [[Abg. Header: Please?]] "Climate teaching promises": 3,000 young people without work. Mr President, I should like to thank Among other things, German Chancellor Klima has repeatedly said that no youth is on the street. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Guggenberger and Koppler.]] The "Kurier" says: "3000 young people will find no teaching place this year." Mr Koppler! That's exactly the chancellor's empty promise. [[Abg. Koppler: Mr Blünegger! That has been quoted so often, leave it at last!]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Mr Blünegger! It's still time!]] Or if I make the comparison of growth in industrial production: In 1994 it was 5.5 percent increase, in 1996 it was only 4.3 percent, and in 1997 it will be the forecast of a small 3 percent. Is that what the Federal Government means by economic policy? - I'm just asking the question. Or research and economic support: It accounts for almost 1.5 percent of our gross domestic product. In my view, it is even as low as in a developing country. Because how high is the EU average? – In the EU average, economic and research funding amounts to 3 percent of the gross domestic product. Or if I refer to Mr Van der Bellen's presentation of the research fund which I can fully support immediately, it seems to me that you have not read the letter sent to us by the Institute, ladies and gentlemen. I can only fully agree with the words of Mr Van der Bellen. I believe that higher unemployment, less youth employment and low industrial growth ultimately mean that we do not have a good approach in this budget. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is facts about this federal government or this coalition, which we have always kept in mind for you in vain. The budget is the policy cast in figures, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, should take to heart the words of your family friend Oskar Lafontaine, who said in 1992: What is economically wrong can not be right politically. – That is why you should not give this budget chapter any approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9828	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9849	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! After Mr Blünegger's complaint about the bad economic situation in Austria has ended, I would like to return briefly to some positive points. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with the issue of business settlement in Austria, an area which is particularly important for the southern Lower Austria. We have lost a lot of jobs, above all because of the decline of the nationalized industry, but we have a very good industrial infrastructure and therefore optimal conditions for new businesses that want to settle with us. We have optimal transport connections, we have well-trained workers, and above all we have a high acceptance of the population for industrial enterprises. Fortunately, there are many positive examples from the past few years, particularly initiated by the local and federal companies. The 1998 budget offers me an opportunity to briefly outline the activities of our company. The Austrian Business Agency, the successor company of the ICD, is particularly positive in the first half of 1997. In the first six months of this year alone, 24 farms were relocated in Austria. Over 700 jobs have been created in this way – a huge achievement, considering that the individual projects are getting smaller and smaller, ladies and gentlemen! The times are over because hundreds of jobs were created with a single settlement. Therefore, the principle of ABA is: Quality before quantity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In its activities, the Federal Company is serving a communication offensive, which includes an advertising and PR campaign, a multimedia presentation and a newly revised Internet presentation. All these measures are intended to prepare the ground for future successful operations in Austria. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The aim is to make the whole world aware that Austria is one of the world's leading industrialized countries. The ABA cooperates with the Foreign Economic Organisations of the Chamber of Commerce abroad. These represent the ABA voluntarily abroad. Investment managers are to be used in particularly important locations. These are intended to carry out the acquisition on site. This model has already been tested in New York; Seoul and Taipei are in conversation as further sites. Ladies and gentlemen! Switching to the field of competence of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is the starting point for this positive development of our company. With a budget of about 76 million Schilling is being worked very effectively, and I congratulate our Minister for Economic Affairs for the successful work of the company in his field of competence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, our Federal Minister for Economic Affairs is not only successful in the establishment of new businesses, but also, above all, in securing existing jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] I would like to highlight this briefly in the example of Semperit Traiskirchen. The drama around this company was presented to the public very wide and was also the subject here in the Hohe Haus. The party leader of an opposition party has tried, through spectacular, particularly media-active appearances, to beat political capital from it. [[Abg. Aumayr: "Parteiobmann" means that to you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] However, the Federal Government has worked, and it has succeeded in substantially expanding the order volume with the Japanese car industry. In hard negotiations, our Minister has also achieved that large proportions of research and development have been brought back to Traiskirchen. Today, there are only positive reports about Semperit Traiskirchen. I would like to thank the Minister on behalf of the workers from my region very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The 1999 budget is the basis for a sound economic policy, thus also ensuring existing and new, highly qualified jobs. I would very much like to vote in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9917	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9938	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister for Economic Affairs! I suppose you understand me if I don't start singing an anthems on your policy. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But you can do it!]] Transactions that are currently taking place in the E-Economy force me to point out one of my views of a worrying misdevelopment in the example of energy Styria or the EStAG here – similar is also happening in Upper Austria – because it is obvious and everything speaks for it to be sold out of the Austrian E-E-Economie. Minister for Economic Affairs! Its desire for a so-called Austrian solution may be acceptable in view of the pre-Christmas period, but it is not sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister for Economic Affairs! The sale abroad is so to speak. Foreign EVUs are making offers for shares of Austrian state EVUs, and I believe you, Minister of Economic Affairs, have failed to create a framework that guarantees an Austrian solution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is always heard that such a procedure is not possible within the framework of the European Union. We would only have to implement the directives nationally and could not be different. I'm convinced: If you wanted, you could! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to see foreign nuclear power producers in par excellence now apply for EStAG's shares and – in a possible restriction with the Upper Austrian OKA – ultimately have a foothold on the Austrian energy and electricity market. That is why I agree to submit a motion for a resolution to that effect. [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister for Economic Affairs! They should try not to go into history as the graves of an independent Austrian electricity policy. Do something in this area! It's not too late yet. But if I ask you to become active in this matter, I ask you at the same time not to do so as at the General Agreement with the Association of the E-Economie when it came to feed-in remuneration – my colleague Mag. Schweitzer will take the floor here – because that is what you have already begun to lift the pit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10024	The motion for a resolution has been properly supported and read and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Kurt Wallner.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10051	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two previous speakers from the Liberal Group, Blünegger and Firlinger, spoke on the topics of workers over 50 and EUR. I would like to recommend to the two gentlemen that they join with their spokesperson Prinzhorn. I refer to two experiences from my daily practice or the experience of the past years on the topic of Euro: As early as 1993, during an operational visit to Brigl & Bergmeister, I met Mr. Maier, who asked me: When will the common European currency finally be introduced? We have great currency losses in the paper industry in our export operations. I can remember that a solution for the paper industry has even been found here in the house. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: But Mr. Maier is no longer and has just led the company down!]] Yeah, but you've been working with him for years. Anyway: In this case, in which you have had huge currency losses, I think he should not be near. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] As far as workers over 50 years of age are concerned, there is hardly a month in which a worker who is employed in your holding comes and says: Please help me, I'd like to go to the early board. I receive signals from the management that I am no longer needed. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn:... he has just dismantled employees!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] I can prove that with files at any time. Dear Mr. Schöggl! I'll come to you right now if you really want it and push yourself up here. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shöggl: Oh yes! You're welcome!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The industry is certainly the engine of the Austrian export industry. It flourishes very well, and I have made it my task to speak here on the occasion of the budget debates on the steel industry in the area of Styria, the former ALPINE, because we have already been killed very often and because we have really had excellent successes and can make a valuable contribution to the success of listed Stahl AG. The so-called long-term productions are being abandoned throughout Western Europe. Thyssen in Germany, for example, has even given production to an Indian company. All invest in flat metal production, because they are increasingly used in the automotive and household industries. In Austria there is a completely contrary and extremely positive development in this area. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Ask experts!]] After the years in which the steel products were not sufficiently refined, it was possible to think, to have a strong niche policy and to offer steel specialties, especially in the area of rail and wire, but also in the oil pipe. It is expected that in this year in Donawitz, 330 000 tonnes of track will be produced. As a result, this plant has become the largest rail producer in the world due to the high transport costs for exports, and I think this is a great success. The competition is five years behind. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Who do we owe this to? The works council, or what?]] Surely not you, Mr Schöggl, nor the FPÖ! That's where I can prefer a part that I wanted to mention anyway. Mr. Schöggl! Thank you for giving me the opportunity. I would ask you, together with colleagues Grollitsch and others, to exercise your great influence, finally to pilge to your party observer – if he is present – and to say to him: Dear friend, you made a huge fool in 1987. You have called for the work to be closed in Donawitz – this is an activist and can be cancelled at any time in the various press services, 1987 – please make it clear that you have been wrong! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: If we continue this way, they'll lock up anyway!]] Above all things: Please finally apologize to the workers who are doing great things there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But for that, neither your influence nor your will is enough. That is why I must say that you are going to become a willing party soldier. I think this is God's problem, unfortunately, which so many in your ranks have: They are afraid to articulate their opinions here on their own. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: How many employees did VOEST have in 1960, and how many have it now?]] I'm not asking you to do this publicly. But do this at last in a personal conversation! It cannot always be the case that Mr Haider is referring from our region. One of his greatest sponsors is sitting in the district of Leoben, Mr Hofmann – not the honourable Member Hofmann here, but another Mr Hofmann; They would probably deserve too little – and this other Mr Hofmann operates, among other things, in Hungary, north of Pecs, a pig mast with 10,000 mother sows. We must imagine the extent of this, and we must also consider what this means for our pig farmers when the enlargement of the EU comes. But that's just by the way. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The Porsche Cabrio is also from the Leoben district, from the Bäck car house, which has also been quite cheap. He also plays tennis with us again and again. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shöggl: Rejoice!]] But no matter what. I just want to tell you: You are so often with him: Talk to him once! Maybe he can put this act of reason. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to return to my own task of representing the region here, and do so with special passion, as you see. I would not like to insult anyone of you and tell you, Mr Prinzhorn: I thank you for being willing to take over this company when we had the problems with Leykam. But I try to say, on the basis of my personal experience, what is the fact with us so that you can take note of it as well. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: I'll correct you then, don't worry!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Donawitzer Rails are sold worldwide. I can tell you that the tram in Berlin runs on Donawitzer Rail, also in Sydney and Turkey. There are large expansion projects there, so that on the line Istanbul – Ankara – Izmir the railway will also roll on Donawitz rails. I could continue this list infinitely. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this success, and I would like to say very modestly that the Social Democrats have always been the ones on the side of this work and the workers. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10246	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10268	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wallner! The owner of the company you have addressed has asked me to correct you in so far as there are probably early retirements in Leoben-Donawitz, for which the Social Democratic Party is largely responsible, while the staff stand at Brigl & Bergmeister has been constant for five years, although our colleague Prinzhorn has taken over a disolate company, also led from your political side in the near ruin. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Can't he do that himself?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] He has implemented liberal economic competence there in practice. Learn from it before spreading falsehoods here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Service ended?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! You have said in a debate that you have no room for manoeuvre through the directive on the liberalisation of the electricity market in the national field. In contrast, I think that this directive does allow for national scope for electricity undertakings. For public service obligations, which are in the public interest, are particularly addressed and referred to in this Directive in the national field. These obligations are also those relating to environmental protection, Mr Federal Minister. There you have enough opportunity to advance the ecologicalisation of electricity generation in Austria accordingly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, Mr Federal Minister, your action concerning the conclusion of the new General Agreement has shown that you have no interest in the generation of electricity from renewable energy. How else is it possible that the feed-in rate in Austria can be between 35,5 sizes and 64,8 sizes per kilowatt hour? – That ridicules every description and is by far the lowest tariff within the European Union. There you go. It is far from achieving European standards, although it would make sense in this case to achieve European standards. But obviously this is not in your interest. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this extremely unfair way of dealing with renewable energy, you hardly leave a future-looking production segment a chance to develop yourself, Minister of State. However, as far as energy imports are concerned, we want to make ourselves quite slowly independent, and this 60 billion shillings a year no longer, or at least no more, an amount to the extent. That is why we are bringing forward a motion for a resolution which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10382	The application is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Drunkl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10412	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The successes of the Austrian economy and the Austrian economic policy cannot be denied. Even if the opposition is still trying to do so, it will not succeed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have created 100,000 new jobs in the last decade, we currently have most self-employed people who have ever been in Austria. I too am a passionate regional representative, and I can say that our Elin in Weiz has an excellent performance at the moment, because we have taken the right steps with the companies and those responsible in good time. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises have set themselves as the engine of this economic development. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not just big industrials like the Princehorn!]] I am very pleased that the editor Georg Wailand so aptly noted this today in the "Kronen Zeitung". But it is also these small and medium-sized enterprises – and I would like to come to my real topic now – that provide training places for young people. 40 percent of all school leavers find their training place in small and medium-sized enterprises. We are training 120,000 young people in the economy today. I therefore believe that the economy is making a huge contribution to youth employment. Today, Vice-Chanceller Schüssel has rightly declared from the government bank that Austria is the best-prepared country, a country that can go to the EU employment summit without worries next week. We are very, very proud of the fact that our measures, which we adopted before the summer, have also taken place. We have created 3 000 new apprenticeships. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At 6 percent, we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in Europe. It has been spoken of here today by honesty. Mr Haigermoser! In order to help the honesty a little to break through: The last data from October 1997 are as follows: Youth unemployment from September to October minus 3.8 percent, job seekers minus 2.4 percent, open apprenticeships plus 6.7 percent. This is economic policy as we do it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But the Haigermoser is not here now!]] As always, if you need it – or don't need it, but would like to address it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] So, please, I'll sacrifice this half minute. Mr Haigermoser has given the best in this House today that he has his economic knowledge from China that he has learned it there. – This is how his remarks were understood. [[Call the ÖVP: That was Chinese!]] Nevertheless, I admit that every youth who has no training place is too much. I would now like to break a lance for the improvement of our training system, because we should take note, Mrs Aumayr, that the economy is changing, that society is changing, that the professions are changing. [[Abg. Aumayr: What do you have against the Chinese? That's where you're taking parliamentary delegations to China!]] We have to note that 20 years ago 20 percent of all young people did not have training. We also note, however, that by reducing this percentage to 1%, of course also the entry qualification for beginners has changed. On the other hand, new techniques and services also require higher qualifications. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: 1 million Austrians are under the minimum of existence!]] We therefore call for further development of the vocational training system, and we request that new models, such as the part lesson, such as the level teaching, such as flexible teaching periods, be really open and unbiased. Not everyone the same, but everyone the Seine, that's our foreign exchange. We should also give young people a chance which has not grown to the requirements of regular teaching. We should give them the opportunity of professional qualifications and hence social recognition. I appeal to the trade unions, including Mr Prague: Don't shut up with this important concern! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do not need to invent anything new – there are enough models, for example in Styria, in Vorarlberg – we only need to recognise the current state by law. We must allow employment. We should not create shackles for the labour market, but we should actually open up new opportunities within the framework of a new training system for our young people.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10530	President. — The debate is closed. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10551	Mr President. High house! I would like to add a few more words on the question of energy, particularly to Mr Hofmann. I asked the heads of state and the responsible national councils of the societies that are in question for an Austrian core to talk about. We have also asked the various representations in the countries to be careful and not to sell shares abroad in a auction procedure and have subsequently missed an important opportunity of Austrian industrial, economic and perhaps also longer-term energy policy. - On the one hand. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, also to Mr Schweitzer. I can only repeat twice: At the moment it seems that it will be a wiser solution to leave it in the empowerment of national leaders to set the energy tariffs for alternative energies. As the owners of the respective companies, they also have the exclusive right to reserve large shares for this energy, without at least conflicting with any international regulations. With this variant, I would perhaps like to complete the field of energy for my part. May I hold on to my own budget again, because today it has also been said that the budget is smaller than in the previous year: This look is natural because the ASFINAG and thus parts of the road construction now form a separate billing circle. All that was planned in my house for investment can also be done to the appropriate extent and at the appropriate pace. In the field of research, which is really central to all of us, in the diving game, which always takes place before a repositioning of the Rayons, I will not prevent anyone from financing what we currently have on research project waves in Austria. For one thing, let me say clearly: For the first time, we are able to start research on large companies in Austria. Semperit has been mentioned here, General Motors will bring research to Austria with the Eco-Motor. The same will be true of Chrysler and others. I believe that our research deficit in part – here I have been mis-quoted with regard to my statements in committee – stems from an insufficient interplay of industrial research in Austria – "Henne-Ei-problem". I believe that, because now there are enough research projects, we have to set up research funding accordingly. - So much for my house's politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today I have inherited some new diminutive names that I would like to add to my grandchildren with pride. [[Call the SPÖ:What?]] You can take that with you. You can even hold a cheek there. You heard it, but if you were outside, It was the "implementation dwarf" for example. That's really sweet. I know that dwarfs are very diligent. But be it! But one thing I can't leave unanswered: If you quote from old documents about plant processes in Austria, then this is simply unfair, even if they come from the young economy. I immediately told the authors of this paper. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] It is nevertheless a wrong paper, Mr Deputies. I'm sorry. Also ask district captains and don't ask the young economy. Since we are discussing the new investment law, we have had a competition between the district captains and the federal states for the speed of the completion of plant procedures. I can report from a recent conversation in Styria: 80 percent of all procedures are carried out in less than three months. Another point is that we have difficulties in some civil participation and environmental impact procedures. But we have this competition, and it is already being taken note of abroad – as an example of this, the ABA, the Austrian Business Agency, has already been mentioned today – because we have never had such an urge from small and medium-sized enterprises to Austria, and one of the advantages is also the quick and customer-friendly completion of investment requests from small foreign companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second point: We have been accused over years of falling the number of apprentices in Austria since 1975. Since 1975! Because of this joint effort by the Federal Government, businesses, countries and communities, we can maintain that for the first time we have a 5 percent increase in apprenticeships and have broken a very dangerous trend. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The job guarantee for apprentices is not right! She wasn't serious!]] I must also add that we have seen that we have a few hundred new apprentices through five new apprenticeships in a few weeks. We will have to continue the way quickly through new, practical apprenticeships for the future, for the next year's generation, to create further career opportunities. From my house four, five new occupations have already been put to the discussion and another four have been discussed with the... [[Intercession with the liberals.]] I would just like to give you an example of how long it usually takes in Austria for a new profession. The administrative assistant we have just published will probably have up to 200 apprentices in a few weeks. That's a completely new thing! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That this is not always easy and sometimes lasts weeks and months – with me nothing takes years! . is because there are time limits laid down in the law for advisory committees to deliver their opinions. [[Call to the liberals: Years!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On export policy, because some colleague accused me of a blind eye in Asia. – I don’t think someone has been more often in Asia in the last few weeks than I have, except he was himself an export merchant there. And because Mr. Haigermoser quoted Asia: They were probably not there at the time when we presented the new Asia funds, which show exactly that we are a huge wave of interest... [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The job guarantee, the apprenticeship guarantee of the Federal Chancellor was not serious!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] If you were to keep me on a trip, I wouldn't be able to take you with me! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Good. But it would be nice to come back to it. It is important that we have decades of breakthroughs in the largest Asian markets. Today, if we have mastered the Japanese wood market with wood-stamped binders and managed to do so in a year, then the interplay must work with company innovation and a joint venture that has settled there. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And a Tyrolean company that does that!]] That's important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, if we have double-digit export rates on most growth and hope markets, this is, of course, a merit of companies that are working hard today with an incredible dynamic, with a new, successful generation of export merchants, multilingual and incredibly high-performance. We can only create the framework conditions that they can. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That would be good!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that the indirect change in the exchange rate of schilling by the upgrading of many other currencies is the sole excuse for our export boom. You can discuss this with the English, including the Swedish competitors: In the first six, seven months after such currency changes, this is swallowed up to 30, 40 percent of the exporters. In England, the competitors tell us: We'll stay until Christmas. So far, the gold rain from the "depreciation" – under quotation marks – has not yet arrived in all businesses, because so far the upgrading countries hold up in competition. But it helps us, you have to say that. Next point – another trend that was broken –: Ladies and gentlemen! For years, you have noticed that some 5 000 to 6 000 new entrepreneurs have registered in Austria each year. We certainly have over 12,000 new companies in the last year and, above all, in the last year – the works contracts are not included – that is, we have a breakthrough in some sort of founding wave – or whatever you want to call it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But look at the details as well. This week, with a participation of 2,500 young entrepreneurs, the "GEWINN" has awarded the 100 best young entrepreneurs in Austria, i.e. new companies in Austria. And the most fascinating thing about this award was that two thirds of all entrepreneurs are no longer working for the Austrian market, but are already being established to succeed in the internal market and in the world markets. The same trend is also evident in all our technology centres, in every federal state. You should not just go down this country! There are incredibly invigorating, positive signs in us! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would add that in some areas we are undoubtedly dealing with the fact that there is not enough flexibility yet. But I would also like to quote Professor Streissler, certainly not one of the most uncritical Austrian economic spirits, who also recently said: In the medium term, it appears that the private economy has all the elements of a positive development, that the problems in the budget and the pension have not been finally solved and that we have to talk about the new role of the state for a long time in globalisation, especially in terms of what is happening in the monetary markets today. Leave In these circumstances, I would like to say: I am willing to deal with everyone and everyone in order to demonstrate that in the last 50 years, in no year, if they were not working in a protected sector, Austrian companies have had comparable favourable conditions. We have inflation of 1 percent, de facto deflation. We have the lowest corporate taxation since the Second World War. We have the lowest interest rates for over 100 years for those who need to finance foreign capital. [[Abg. Aumayr: And most of the unemployed!]] For the first time since the end of the First World War, we have free market access to all neighbouring markets and, thanks to the WTO agreement, free market access in industry to many other countries in the world. Thanks to the agreement of the social partners over the last few weeks, we have also made reasonable flexibilization arrangements, and last but not least, we have managed to have, in order to return to Mr Prinzhorn's report, reduced wage-piece costs for three years, which distinguishes us from all other EU countries, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If there are efforts on the one hand, plus efforts by the social partners on the other hand, and the many efforts on the business side to benefit from the new opportunities, then we should not be afraid of the next data on Austrian economic policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10753	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Second word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10796	Mr President. Federal Minister! You'll be right with your Streissler quote. And with Streissler many believe, above all I believe, that the Austrian economy endures all kinds of things, so it is dynamic. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Even this government!]] One or two years ago I also said that the Austrian economy must indeed be healthy in order to endure this kind of policy. If you read to colleagues Streissler what he says about Austrian economic policy in recent years, you would find quotations that can hardly be exceeded in their sarcasm. Federal Minister! I am pleased that you have addressed my concerns about the technology offensive and the research promotion offensive in Austria in your last speech. I also thank you for the suggested possibility of a "bilateral" exchange of views on this point, but you have not yet convinced me. I am still convinced that with this kind of budgetary policy of the Austrian technology offensive, you are not doing any service, especially no good service. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberals.]] I think it is not right for you to put your neck over your head now and obviously without having voted with the FFF, the FFF budgetaryly at zero. That is the case, Minister. They fully agree that the new funding procedure, i.e. a mere change in the funding procedure, will bring as much as in 1997, 1996, 1995 and so on. Otherwise, you can't make any sense about what you're planning. We don't think that's right. The Greens therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! This amendment restores the state of the 1998 federal proposal, as it appeared in the press in September, as it appeared throughout October, as it did until the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 31 December. ==References== That is, the Federal Estimate will be restored as it looked until 14 days ago. Only the rebooking you made 14 days ago at the expense of the FFF will be reversed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10990	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Günter Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11018	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The problem of Semmering-basistunnel is one that belongs to the Committee on Transport and, on the other hand, the economic component of this question simply cannot be separated. We already know from history that wherever there was an economy, a powerful railway was needed. There are now forces who have written on their flags to prevent the construction of the Semmering base tunnel. It is not my way of dealing with the coalition partner in plenary, but I would like to point out here – but not towards ÖVP, not towards ÖVP-Niederösterreich, but only towards the head of state who is more or less leading the campaign against the tunnel –: The industrial and economic locations along the southern railway line should be quite different for this man. I do not trust him in solidarity with the steirers and Carinthians anyway. But what does he think when he divides the tunnels into a good one – the road tunnel – and a bad one – the railway tunnel? Does he believe that you will be driving on the line Vienna – Semmering and from Semmering to Tarvis 170 km of time and then over 50 km of the mountain? This route certainly doesn't take human beings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kampichler.]] My colleague, I only have 3 minutes. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is interesting and significant to me: This contract dates back to the time when the current Mr. Landes Captain was still a deputy and he signed it all. Mr President, he himself has signed it, and you cannot discuss it away. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the "Frankfurter Allgemeine" it says: A braker's going around. That is the same situation. If you understand something from rail transversals in the north and south of the continent, then you will know that we need a connection, not over Hungary, but a powerful railway in Austria. You have to take note of that. [[Abg. May. Posch: The Khol doesn't control its intellectuals!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you that the main country woman of Styria – a very good woman – knows exactly what it is all about – is absolutely not in agreement with her colleague in Lower Austria. That is why I believe that there should be a lot to be done. I believe that this railway is important for the Lower Austrian economy, for all those who live along the South Railway, in the cities, in the villages. The factories, the plants will not understand this attitude, I guarantee you. They need this train, and that's why we're for this train. I represent the Lower Austrian economy, for I am the chairman of the Free Economic Association. I am in favour of this railway and I believe that we must take a clear position in this regard. I would like to appeal to all those who are positive about this project to take a clear and clear position for a Semmering base tunnel, for a powerful railway, for a connection from north to south. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11069	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. - Please. I have indicated a three-minute voluntary limit on speaking time for all subsequent speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11094	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now I want to deal with the construction area again. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Perhaps Mrs. Klasnic has read two Karl May books, namely not only the "shatz im Silbersee", but also "Der Schut". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I don't understand the joke! Or am I too stupid? What does "The Shot" have to do with the Semmering Tunnel?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The ratio of investment road – rail is 1 : 4. I think that's very balanced. About ASFINAG It's already been talked about. The BIG is positive on track. All in all, if you look at the problem of vignettes, you can say it's a good budget, and everything's okay in the building area too. I would like to focus on a point which I have already discussed with you in committee. Federal Minister! I assume that one of the three projects will come – I would like to say this now: first stronach ball, second business park, third Dujsik leisure project. That means 15 000 passenger cars in addition to the South motorway. The Mega-Staus are already programmed: There are corresponding headlines weekly, Mr. Federal Minister, again this week. There's nothing going on the South motorway! I do not want to quote the transport statistics here, but I would just like to tell you two figures: In 1971, traffic on the southern motorway was 20,580 cars, now 87,000 cars. In the summer the construction site chaos is added, and it is not as you, Mr Federal Minister, have told me that only outside the "normal" traffic, that is only in the Rush-hour, this traffic will be produced. I've been talking to the ÖAMTC and other car drivers' organizations today. We have about – and this is very interesting, ladies and gentlemen – traffic congestion costs of 20 million schilling per hour. On the South motorway it is 100 hours a year. This means: 2 billion Schilling economic loss a year on the South motorway! Ladies and gentlemen! I ask for understanding, Minister of State, that we now continue to do these projects for the donor in the south. The faces of the pendlers, who are stuck for an hour and cannot fulfill their job, say everything. We need to consider the damage that is caused. The ARBÖ has created a 10-point program. The Director-General of Porr AG says that without an investment boost, building record unemployment is threatened. The daily congestion is programmed for lack of investment. . I know, Minister of State, you don't have it easy. However, I would like to ask you to make appropriate plans in the near future, perhaps in the form that at least the South motorway to Baden is four-tracked and perhaps, so that you do not appear selfish when you come from the south, also the West motorway to St. Pölten three-track. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11136	Mr Riepl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the The same voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11158	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I think you are right when I say that, for a large number of employers in our country, it is natural to comply with the minimum provisions on business law and collective agreements and to pay the taxes required by law. I think that is what the vast majority of our employers are doing, the large majority of those who are economic operators. At the same time, however, there is a group for which this is not an issue that does not hold back those who do not comply with industrial law, minimum provisions, and do not provide taxes when they should. Many of these are affected by workers, foreign workers, who are often exploited by illegal employers, by black entrepreneurs. This does not prevent our State, our budget, from paying taxes and taxes, and I believe that this should also be taken into account in a budget debate. As a result of undeclared work, often through organized black work, a distortion of competition in some sectors, which ultimately poses a threat to companies, as it reduces the number of jobs and reduces the number of jobs. Labour inspectorates shall be called upon to carry out the control of holdings. It is very interesting to see what the review statistics of this year look like. In the first three quarters, from January to September, a total of 11 499 companies were controlled by the labour inspection throughout Austria. It was found that there are a total of 3 039 foreign workers who are not correctly reported for which no taxes and no taxes are paid. If you count it high all year round, we can assume that it will become about 4,000 in this year. It is to be said that we are the action of the Federal Government of the 4th century. In November 1997, it was expressly welcomed. There is a government decision to launch a "clean job" action. This is coordinated through the Ministry of Social Affairs and the aim is to improve employers' reporting and employment morals, to propose an improvement in the legislation and to strengthen the organisation and control of the public authorities. I believe that we should follow with interest what proposals the Federal Government will make in this area. A report is planned in the first quarter of next year, and I am inviting the ladies and gentlemen of the House and the clubs to examine and implement these proposals properly. I believe that we should all go to fight against illegal employment wherever it occurs and, as far as possible, to throw it back. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 17.1 1
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11202	The next speaker is Mrs Doris Bures. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11226	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can connect seamlessly: The focus of the 1997/98 budget debate is, of course, employment policy. Therefore, since it is closely related to this, I would like to focus briefly on the area of housing development, which has very high not only social policy but also employment policy effects. If we know today that the construction of an apartment causes costs of around 23 000 s per square meter, this means that a new building apartment without housing aid costs about 2 million schillings. This corresponds, as we know, around six times the annual Austrian household income. Therefore, it is necessary not only to maintain housing development in the form, but, if the budgetary situation improves, to expand it. Nevertheless, there is, of course, always the discussion about how socially sound this housing promotion is, or whether these funds are especially useful to those whom they actually need. Eight years ago, 1989, we changed the allocation of housing aid, because we wanted to address the different situations in the individual Länder, and therefore the responsibility lies in whether the funds are used in such a way as to actually benefit those who need them most from the federal states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I wanted to introduce one aspect, namely the question: What results if the funding is no longer available? In our neighbouring country Germany, the housing funds were completely deleted. We know that there is no longer any supported housing there, and we also know that supply and demand have an impact on the price and therefore there is an extreme explosion of rental costs. Federal Minister! There are also financial resources in their area of housing research, and I think it would be appropriate to ensure that accompanying studies, which are of course involved, are much more involved in the parliamentary discussion. And if I am already in the habitability of apartments, there is also one point to this: the law on non-profit accommodation, which is also in your field, Mr Farnleitner, Federal Minister. Historically, housing cooperatives were those who had the task of creating Community ownership, community institutions. Unfortunately, in the past these have been removed in many areas, and I think it would be highly appropriate to also enforce a change in the housing law in such a way that, after repayment of all loans and annuities, the tenants pay only more of the contribution necessary for the maintenance of the house, but no more than annuities and loans that are no longer available. That is why I would ask you, Minister of State, to take initiatives in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11279	Mr Karl Gerfried Müller has the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11303	Mr President. Minister for Economic Affairs! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The focus of the Austrian budget policy is on a budget estimate, which takes into account the maintenance of the employment situation and the attractiveness of the Austrian economic location. Through the not always popular savings measures, we can expand our fiscal policy scope, so that we have much more and new design possibilities in the future. In doing so, we are absolutely at the forefront of social democrats in terms of efficiency, distribution justice and balance. The horror scenarios, which are painted by the opposition, of course by the liberals, with verbal exits such as "ruin-like numerical works", "economic fairy tales", "irreal assumptions", "tax vandalism" and so on, have not occurred in 1996, nor will the 1997 budget cause such unqualified statements to be taken seriously, and not at all to the 1998 budget. There is no reason at all for such scandalization. On the contrary: This uncertainty in the population disturbs social peace, and if there are additional groups to play against each other, this shows many opposition politicians that a policy of matters is apparently not always in demand. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The building chapter has experienced serious changes through the breakdown of ASFINAG. In comparison with the 1997 budget figures, where 27.6 billion schillings of expenditure and 8 billion shillings of revenue were planned, in 1998 there were as many as 18.3 billion shillings of expenditure and 2.9 billion shillings of revenue. As the toll revenue is also reserved for the ASFINAG, this is, of course, the impact of the 1998 budget. However, it is essential that the revenue is used for the maintenance and further expansion of our infrastructure. The financing of the road infrastructure will still have to deal with us very intensively in the future. Of the currently 3.1 billion Schilling Vignette revenue from 1997, not even 10 percent are in the truck traffic. It is clear, therefore, that passenger transport is financed by the road network in a much more difficult way. We will soon have to make a fair balance.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11346	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11368	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard from the previous speaker that the budget section of buildings for the coming year is about 9 billion shillings less. The reason for this is the transfer of the extension and maintenance of the A- and S-roads to the ASFINAG. This is intended to achieve the financing by the Vignette revenue. I believe that conservation and expansion will not be eligible for funding. Nevertheless, I believe that it is also our task to establish fast connections, to provide safe roads, and to ensure a 50 per cent cost coverage due to European recognition. We have just heard of the division of vignette revenue. This means that there is a strong disproportionate relationship between the car and the passenger car in the ratio of three to one. If we take into account the forecast for the next two decades, this means that freight traffic will be about doubled and passenger transport will increase by about 40 percent. This means that, if we do not counter it, further cross-subsidisation will be necessary to a greater extent, i.e. that the border of land use is open to road, and that also means that freight traffic on the rail will be pushed into an insignificant scale. It follows that a reasonable extension of the transport routes must be made very quickly – and of course this taking into account the cost-effectiveness. This also means road pricing for trucks. Apart from the fact that we have already provided this by law for 1998, the European transport ministers also announced this in October. Like your predecessors, Mr Federal Minister, you have now put this road pricing back to the year 2001, with arguments that, as I believe, are not really relevant, but rather serve to compensate road pricing for trucks with the current tax burden as neutral as possible. That, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Federal Minister, is not a cause for cause, so it must not happen in this form either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, the international similarity is not an argument, nor is it, since all European countries are already lifting or preparing tolls. Nor can the technical argument apply. The European Standard, which is in line with the World Standard ISO, prevents, when it is taken into account, an island solution at least in Europe, it also enables competitive systems and ensures communication between systems. The preliminary work on road pricing in Austria is essentially completed. I believe that Austria knows what it wants, and that is why, in the opinion of the Austrian industry and Austrian experts, it is also possible to implement it quickly within a maximum of two years. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No human needs that!]] If this is not possible by the year 2000, then the reason can probably only be in non-will. Federal Minister! I see that you have problems with the fishermen, but I am looking for you to make a quick decision in the interests of permanent budget consolidation.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11411	As the last speaker in this debate, I give Mr Magistrate. Kaufmann the word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11433	Mr President. Minister! High house! I am only talking about this because it seems quite strange to me that there are applications for the creation of apprenticeships in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and that they are delayed, but I hope they will not be finally prevented. What's this about? – The BFI-Niederösterreich has prepared an offer to create a number of training facilities, namely a training facility in Sigmundsherberg and a training facility in Wiener Neustadt, which could create 30 apprenticeships for apprentices, and a training facility in Gänserndorf, through which 20 training places could have been created. Now I know that the problem of Gänserndorf is done by the OMV because the OMV will accommodate 20 additional apprentices. It is especially thanks to the company OMV, especially the works councils who have been working for it. But, Minister, the problem of Wiener Neustadt and Sigmundsherberg remains open. The condition for the self-employed training institution according to § 30 Vocational training law is to ensure the quality of such training, the maintenance over a certain period of time and, above all, the need. Inconsistencies should be expressed in all the opinions that the quality of training and assurance has been given over a longer period of time, but it is obvious that the need is doubted. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Wiener Neustadt there are 65 job seekers, in the Waldviertel a total of 100, in the entire Lower Austria there are 1 050. It also ensures the financing of these training facilities. Minister! High house! Mr Drinkl said that training should be dealt with as unbiasedly as possible. I believe that is also true, and it should therefore be dealt with unbiasedly, that apprentices outside a firm should be trained in special training facilities. I would therefore ask you, Mr Minister, to look at such a training facility as it is necessary in Wiener Neustadt and in Sigmundsherberg, and not to delay it any longer, but to allow it to be finally. The financing is ensured by: There is a need, and I can also tell you that there has been talks with the Chamber of Labour of Lower Austria and with the trade union metal, mining, energy and that such an institution is also planned for Waidhofen at the Ybbs within the framework of the Böhler-Uddeholm teaching workshop. I would like to ask you now to see and support this training facility in a positive way. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11481	My announcement is that Mr Magistrate may. Kaufmann, the last speaker in this debate, was a little hasty. It has now become Mr. Farnleitner to speak again. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11502	I know it is not popular to delay, but I really want to reply to the last speaker. I would seriously ask the Chamber of Labour to make it to the public only if I have their requests in the house. First point. Second point: If the applications are in the vocational training council, which means that I must wait for the joint opinion of employers and employees to continue to be suffocated, then the next "lust" effect is. Third point: I've made it clear from the very beginning: I am in favour of attempts to outsource the teaching workshops from industrial firms and then to score with a large cash flow. That is why I have caused OMV to respond accordingly. These are two things I ask to take note of. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fourth point: Wiener Neustadt and Sigmundsherberg. At the moment, as regards applications 7 and 12, which concern apprentices, the country's commitment is not yet there. We have said in both cases that we look at this, then we make the decision. My House will not delay, but it is not a matter of making decisions before the request is on the table with me. I'm asking for understanding. That's just unfair! To Mr Marizzi I would like to say once again: There are also drivers standing and thank you for the fourth track on the south motorway in the mixing area, which has failed until last on all resistances. But we have to do something – that's why I take the floor again –: We are considering with the association Curatorium for Traffic Safety whether we are not doing car-pool solutions at least in peak times on the fourth or third tracks we now have, because otherwise we have additional traffic jams. On the South motorway, it is obvious that 90 percent of cars are sitting well packed and driving for a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11552	There is actually no more word message for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur, Mr Special, does not wish to conclude. We now come to the votes and I ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the Advisory Group IX of the Federal Estimate for 1998. This includes Chapters 63 and 64 of the Federal Proposal, together with the part of the economic compensatory estimate in Chapter 64, in 841 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 910 of the Supplements. Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. First of all, I will vote on the financial approaches affected by the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the IX advisory group of the Federal Government proposal for 1998. Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the proposals 1/63156 and 1/63176. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. I am now voting on these parts of the financial approach of the Federal proposal for 1998 in the version of the Special Report in 910 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. These parts have been accepted by the majority in the version of the Special Report in 910 of the Supplements. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of Chapters 63 and 64, which are not yet agreed, together with the part of the economic compensatory estimate in Chapter 64, in 841 of the Supplements to the Special Report in 910 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. These parts have been accepted by the majority. In line with the previous practice of this budget discussion, I would suggest that the vote on the motions for resolutions submitted to the Advisory Group IX be taken now. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. That is why we can proceed in this way. First of all, I should like to vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on the rapid implementation of toll relief measures for the use of road sections close to the border. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann and comrades on misdevelopments in the reorganisation of the e-business and misdevelopment of the Austrian electricity market. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Now we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann and comrades on energy promotions. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Doppelmüller is accidentally placed between the rows.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Thank you, Doppelmüller! - Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Doppelmüller calls "Oh!" And take a seat right away.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We have therefore voted on all the motions for resolutions tabled. Advisory Group IV Chapter 11: Internal (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11644	We shall now proceed to the debate on the IV Consultative Group: Internal Affairs. The Special Rapporteur shall refrain from oral reporting. We start immediately with the call of the word messages. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11675	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The internal security budget has increased this year by around 2 billion schilling. That's the one side, the happy side of this budget. On the other hand, the internal security budget has already increased annually, but this increase in the budget has not actually been reflected in greater security in Austria, but we still have a very high crime rate. The number of criminal offences is about 500 000 a year, which means no less than 1,400 criminal offences per day. This is a lot, and if the Minister of the Interior says from time to time that crime is falling, because statistics show by 1 or 2 per cent less, then I must say that this is due to statistics, because, Mr Minister, this is what I have to blame for. There are, for example, the decree of the Minister of the Interior, which states that the number of known criminal offences must not exceed that of the suspects under the drug law. Even in the case of serial break-ins, which are practiced by one and the same intruders, only one act can be spoken of in the crime statistics. That is to say, we try to reduce the rate of crime by all possible means, for example by freezing statistics properly. It is therefore not an argument if the Minister says: Statistics show a fall in crime anyway, it is reported by 1 percent less. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] We're now at the number of crimes. You must not confuse the investigation rate and the number of offences, Mr Schwamlein. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have not now spoken of the Enlightenment Rate, but I have spoken about the level of crime. . But you know, I have only a limited speaking time, so I have to go on in my remarks, because I have a lot to blame the Minister, for example, addiction crime. Minister! According to your own report, addiction crime has increased enormously. In the individual Länder, the increase in the number of crimes is between 3.4 per cent and 95 per cent! Minister! You also beautify this area by saying: It is being worked very intensively, which will now reveal more. – This argument, too, is horrendous, for if, for example, one would say: We do not know at all, we do not cover up any more at all, nor can we say that we no longer have addiction crime or drug abuse. – All these arguments are really just excuses that are proposed to enhance bad statistics in some way. Minister! In today's issue of a newspaper – I think it was the "Kurier" – one can read that the police themselves appreciate that there are about 10,000 heroin addicts in Vienna. Every day, heroin is implemented worth 5 million schilling, equivalent to an annual turnover of 1.8 billion schilling. Experienced criminals say, however, that this estimate is far too low, you actually have to start from the double. And just as high as the heroin rate is also the cocaine turnover. I have to tell you, Minister, I really have the impression that you have escaped the matter, precisely as far as drug crime is concerned. There is no longer any fight against drug crime at all, but more or less has been found and is content to say: We're gonna open up more now. But there are no longer any officials who reveal, there are no new methods and no new strategies at all, how to master drug crime. And that is the most dangerous thing about your security policy, Mr. Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Organized crime has firmly established itself in Austria. Only recently did organized crime in Vienna set a really dangerous sign by depositing a bomb at a restaurant. It is also seen that these criminals are not afraid of anything. The experts say that this bomb would have destroyed everything there would have been within 15 meters. That's how dangerous and aggressive these perpetrators are. – All of this has continued to strengthen in Austria, although the budget has been increased over and over again. Minister! That we are no longer tremoring in front of the letter bomb terrorism, you have only one chance to do so, because for years your ministry – not under your leadership, but in your ministry – has been determined in the wrong direction. And only by chance has the suspected perpetrator been found. What happened in the Ministry of the Interior at that time is something that you can't just come to the table. This ministry, this apparatus has only determined in the right direction and as a result it has not been illuminating by important groups of perpetrators at all. [[Abg. That's not true!]] But, of course, this is true, Mr Schwemmlein. 300 million schillings have been issued for the warrant after the letter bomb culprit. I know – and I told you personally – that it is extremely difficult to reveal letter bomb attacks. But the fault of your predecessor, Mr Minister, was that in his ideological building he simply could not allow the perpetrator to get out of the right area. It was impossible for him to think that the culprit could come from the left. If he had approved the presumption that the culprit was coming from the left, he would have first published the perpetrator's profile before – no, he suppressed the perpetrator's profile! – and, second, he would have been found in a different direction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scatter]] He would have insisted that the perpetrator should also be sought and found in the socialist area. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There it was found too! It was a sozi!]] [[Further calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Of course! You have been found in the left and not in the right area. Of course, in the socialist field! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Mertel and Schwemlein.]] You know very well that the suspected bomber comes from a socialist family. But just as little as you want to do today, the then Minister of the Interior wanted it to be true. Ladies and gentlemen! How much the Minister of the Interior, who has always preached tolerance, has exerted pressure in his ministry in the pursuit of the letterbombant, has made it quite clear to Mr. Director-General Sika. He said: I have been put under psychological pressure so that I do not do any investigation work in the right direction. – This right direction would also have been the left direction, while for the Minister of the Interior One only counted the right direction, everything else was not imaginable for him. And that must be blamed on you! But this minister, who has made such a decision, has now been appointed by the Socialists to a ministerial office. And that is what is very worrying about us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At any rate, 300 million schillings have been wasted by these false investigations, for example in the case of mad house searches. For 90-year-olds who had a straw in the house by chance, or for widows whose husband was once referents of the magazine "Aula", house searches have been carried out because one has believed that there will be the big bombers to find. That's why I emphasize: It does nothing if you have more resources and even more resources available if you do not use them properly. And I claim that some of these funds have not been used properly in the interior area. Minister! If this 300 million schilling is still at your disposal, you would not have to save 83 police officers. I'm really asking you: How do you get to cut the number of cops? How do you make savings in the executive? – It is precisely the high rate of crime that speaks of extending the executive, but not of making restrictions. Instead of providing you with better equipment of the executive, as it would be urgently necessary, you still save. It is even said that you want to save 159 executive planning posts in Vienna. I ask you to answer why you are making such reductions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! You said in the committee that we need at least the infrastructure of the executives who have criminals. I'll give you absolutely the right to do that. But in recent years, everything has only been in favor of the criminals. For example, the perpetrator has always been at the heart of the crime, the victim has always come second. Security policy has moved away from the citizen and towards the perpetrators. Thousands of executive officials have been saved instead of increasing their numbers as it would be in line with their duties. So, Minister, you can't continue to pursue security policy, because you will never be able to fight crime properly. I have already told you that you should take an example of how to deal with crime in New York. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] I don't think you should make fun of that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Tell him where New York is!]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: Maybe in Vorarlberg?- Oh, my God!]] What comes to us from the east is alarming! That's really no nonsense. If you talk to experts about what is happening to us from the East, you will see how necessary it is for us to take really effective measures against crime in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11883	I call Mr Leikam. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11919	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just one sentence to my predecessor, to the colleague, Partik-Pablé: It has made the same point today as it did a few weeks ago, when we discussed here in great detail the report by the Minister for the Interior on the letter bombs. [[Abg. Son of a bitch: That's why this happened to me so well-known!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Word equal!]] I would therefore not like to go back to all the arguments that we heard at the time during this debate and which, as I believe, have shed a very significant light on the right side of this House. I don't want to go into it. It has probably also given the same speech as it did a few months ago in the debate on the 1995 security report. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The problems have not changed!]] There was nothing new about it today, even though I may well be saying this as a compliment and as a recognition of the fact that there has been some progress in the interior area. For I also remember those speeches by you, Mrs Partik-Pablé, in which you were much sharper at the speaker's desk. You have, in the security report and in the internal security budget, repeatedly made massive accusations to the Minister that nothing went on that there is too little money that the equipment no longer agrees that the accommodation is bad and much more. You have not been doing this for some time now, and I am quite sure that this is a recognition of a good policy of the Minister of the Interior of the Social Democratics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Khol, at my call, when I went to the speaker's desk, meant: the special, right, the famous Leikam. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The famous one!]] He might be right to do so, because today I have to deal with you, Mr Klubobmann Khol, and with your group in part of my remarks. I have to do that. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. If that is the case, then Mr Farnleitner is right. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now comes the club law! I hope that's what I'd like to hear!]] That's it! Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Please explain to me and to this House and thus to the public why you and your representatives across the federal territory – in a federal country a little less – have chosen exactly this procedure. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The ÖVP is in opposition, so they do it! The ÖVP is an old opposition party!]] Although there is not even a basis for discussion in the Ministry of the Interior and no draft law for a new association right at all, the ÖVP draws up and down land and calls on the public to become active in this area against the Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why then discuss the house on 20 October? November about it?- Oh, my God!]] For something that doesn't exist! This is a procedure which your Minister, Mr Farnleitner, has rightly called into question to a SPÖ delegate. Dr. Khol! What is available is the publication of a legal work in the Manz publishing house – you know exactly what is on the table – was published in March 1997, i.e. eight months ago. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Already read!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Who is it from? Who are the authors?- Oh, my God!]] First, I asked myself: Why is ÖVP doing that? But then I realized why she was doing this, because I found a newspaper article about your current club meeting, which says that the supposedly successful Upper Austrian head of state – the loss of several percent of the electorate will still be sold by you as a success – has said that the Federal Party can only be advised to accept certain issues in good time and to keep them in public. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What about the high-mair?- Oh, my God!]] This is how you can be successful at elections. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank you for the propaganda!]] – This could be an explanation for the fact that without any basis, without the presence of such a request, you have started this campaign all over Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Toni Leikam is looking through us today to the bones!]] The Carinthians are apparently particularly diligent. There is an advertisement of the Carinthian Clubman Ferdinand Sablatnig, in which it is said – I quote –: "With combined power for Carinthia's clubs. The Minister of the Interior wants to make it difficult for Kärnten's associations to live by unnecessarily strict regulation, by means of a rigidly enhanced supervisory law and by an accounting obligation under commercial law. We give the Minister of the Interior a lot of small thoughts." - Quote. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But there he did the bill without the host!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Please read on!]] And these notes, these lists will be sent to the Carinthian clubs. The Carinthian media write about a press conference of the ÖVP: "Kärntner Vereine in the fight against this impossible Minister of the Interior." Ladies and gentlemen! Although the Ministry of the Interior has stated twice that there is no basis for such an action by the ÖVP, that there is no such draft law, and also in the Committee on Budgets, Member of the Friend of the Minister of the Interior, who has asked for personal information from the Minister, when the campaign against the associations will be stopped, he has also heard from the mouth of the Minister that only the heads of the ÖVP have launched such a campaign, not the Minister of the Interior. However, it seems that this has not been enough for Mr Freund and the ÖVP, and the action has been strengthened. There are even posters in Carinthia, Mr Khol, in Carinthia. [[The speaker unfolds a poster.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I keep it on the other side!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[The speaker holds the poster with the help of the Abg. May. Stadler is well visible in height.]] I have never asked Mr Stadler to cooperate, but now I am very grateful to him. So this is the poster of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Khol! You can keep it so you know what your party friends in Carinthia are doing. This is your party line. [[Abg. Dr. Khol goes to the speaker's desk and takes the poster.]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Do you still complain about that?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Thanks for the advertising!]] This sheds a significant light on the coalition partner, who travels through the country with a lie propaganda and insecures the people and the clubs. So that's your answer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] You write here: We give the Minister of the Interior a lot of little thought. But the associations of this country do not deserve to be abused for a party policy action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] They don't want to distribute thought papers. The voters will give you a monument, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Toni, this is the best speech you've given in this house!]] – Unfortunately, I have to say that, but the actions that the Austrian People's Party has taken throughout the country cannot be offered and liked. In Lower Austria, the ÖVP Landesleitung sends letters to the mayor. A pre-printed resolution is already in place. It is likely that the mayors are not even able to write such resolutions, so it is settled. The mayors are invited to decide on this in the localities and send the Minister of the Interior as a thoughtful document – to something he does not intend to do at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I tell you that it will be necessary at some point to discuss a new association law, because it is over 100 years old. We will have to talk about it because there is a need for reform in this area. But it will be an association law that will not be against the associations, but we will create a new, modern association law together with the associations, with experts and by means of a corresponding consultation procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! You can work there, but we will of course draw your attention to the fact that we will inform the people about what you are doing in the country and what you have done to dissatisfaction, about the campaign that is not true from the beginning to the end, on every occasion. Ladies and gentlemen! I've only got 10 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of my group will still have a very detailed opinion on this budget. All I can say is: I am very grateful to the Minister for the Interior and also to the Minister for Finance, because although this budgetary consolidation course, which has been under way by the Federal Government for a number of years, has also been valid for the 1998 budget, this Minister of the Interior has succeeded in achieving a significant increase in the budget for the chapter of the Internal Affairs. We will continue to ensure this high level of security policy, which exists in Austria. Mrs Partik-Pablé! They also know that the values, the figures that we are recording in Austria, are the top in Europe, even worldwide. With the increase in this budget, a further step will be taken to maintain this level. I am very grateful to this Minister of the Interior and to his staff, the more than 32 000 executive officials in the country, that they are doing such good work in this country, that the crime figures are gone, and that the reconnaissance rates are rising – for the first time, more than 50 percent. They do good work. You deserve our thanks and our recognition!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12230	Mr Dr. Khol referred to an actual correction. – Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12254	Mr Toni Leikam has said that there are no plans by the Minister of Justice for the reform of association law. [[Abg. Leikam: I said draft law! That's wrong! I didn't say that! This is the untruth! I didn't say that! They're writing "Citizens"! Read your own poster!]] I'm allowed to hold on to this: There is an invitation to the "Reform of Association Law" meeting on 21 January. November in the Parliament, budget room local VI, and there the opening office Mag. Karl Schlögl– Look, look! –, Federal Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12293	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12325	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Leikam Klubobmann Khol has read the Levites properly, we can return to the debate on the budget. Mr Khol! As a clubman, you should already know that the invitation to an inquiry or the fact that the Minister is giving an opening speech does not yet mean that there is a draft law or that the law is amended in this direction. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] Mr Khol! One thing you really shouldn't do: You should not insure these associations, which do a very important job for our society, namely for leisure and also for the public and for the Community, by such a campaign. This must be said with all clarity and clarity. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the budget of the Chapter of the Interior. In fact, we can see an increase in the 1998 budget compared with 1997. I think that is really very remarkable. Obviously, the Minister of the Interior succeeded in the budgetary negotiations to enforce the Minister of Finance. After all, the executive for 1998 now has 22.6 billion schilling available, and the share of gross domestic product has also increased. This is a positive observation. Mr Khol now withdraws, but if you compare this with the area of defence, then you can see how little success [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't withdraw!]] Your Minister of Defense was Fassleven, then you can see who in the Federal Government is properly representing the interests of his area of responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that with this budget the tasks for the executive have been fulfilled, that it will now be possible to equip the executive with modern equipment. At this point, Mr. Federal Minister, my first appeal is to you: It will now be up to you to speed up the modernisation of the Austrian executive. Mrs Partik-Pablé also referred to the safety report and criminal statistics. One must maintain with all objectivity that it is simply not true that we have an increasing rate of crime. We have a crime rate falling in the trend, even though – I admit – 500 000 and more crimes are a very high number. But in the international comparison we are good. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I did not say that she was rising, but that she was high!]] She's high, that's right! But we have in the trend – and I believe that this is the right scale to be set; the crime rate is not to be seen punctually, but as it has developed in recent years – a falling crime rate, we have an increasing education rate, and this is positive and reflects the work of the executive. That is why we should not be here in the House to thank the executive. Ladies and gentlemen! If you compare our security situation with that of other countries, you can say without a doubt that Austria is a very safe country. Let's see, for example, the killers in the international comparison: There are 4.3 offences in 100 000 inhabitants in the Federal Republic of Germany, 2.8 in Switzerland and 2.2 in Austria. That's a very positive fact. Or in the area of theft: In Germany there are 4 500, in Switzerland 4 800 and in Austria 2 800. This is a positive development. This should be noted and maintained, since it is not fair on such a question to panic. Federal Minister! I expect you to set clear priorities with the sufficient budget resources available in the use of the executive, but also in the fight against crime, where the current challenge has been met. And this current challenge exists, for example, in the area of drug crime and in the field of international crime. This will be the focus, and I expect you to make these priorities apparent and clear. [[Abg. The next arms stores!]] Federal Minister! It is necessary that you not only announce reforms, but also actually implement and implement them. Federal Minister! I call for a long-standing structural reform of the Austrian security executive and a clear separation between security executives on the one hand and security management on the other. It makes sense to transfer the tasks of security management to civil authorities. For example, they would have potential for savings and rationalization if in Vienna these tasks, as in the federal states, the district's chief teams, were to take over the magistrates. I also believe that we need to reform within the security executive by bringing together the various executive bodies. I know that you still have another view in this regard, another access, because you do not see yourself able to actually implement this necessary reform. Federal Minister! There is a need for reform in the state police. There is a need for reform in the field of executive training. As a representative at home in Traiskirchen, I am very happy that we are finally receiving the Security Academy. It is very important for the executive, because joint officer training is necessary and a command of the hour. It will also be necessary to give this officer training, i.e. this Academy a corresponding priority, namely the status of a technical college. Federal Minister! I'm expecting this from you. Put in place the necessary preparatory measures to ensure that the relevant training programmes are tailored to the requirements of the University of Applied Sciences Law. If you want to, take a bond at the military academy, which is thanks to God, according to the decision of the University Council, has now defined this training as a technical education course. I believe that the military academy on Wiener Neustadt can be regarded as an example, and these study documents could also be adapted and used accordingly for the executive. What seems particularly important to me in connection with the Security Academy is the depoliticization of the field of training. I would like to say in advance that I will be very strongly opposed to the establishment of the various advisory committees to be set up here. Federal Minister! You have enough qualified police officers, enough qualified lawyers in your ministry, who can advise you in the exercise of the service supervision vis-à-vis the Security Academy. I assume that when you occupy this very important function, you will take the best officers and lawyers at your disposal. It is therefore not necessary to provide the head of this "security academy" with an advisory board composed of the heads of the ministry. That, I think, is a wrong approach. Instead, it will be necessary to define very clear responsibilities and to ensure that the supervision of the service is made effective accordingly. Federal Minister! Let me address one point in this debate today, namely the issue of the establishment of the border army. First of all, it is very important to note that Austria will be a full member of the Schengen Agreement from December this year onwards, that this Schengen Agreement will now be put into force and that we will not have EU internal borders. This will enable us to achieve a very essential freedom and a very essential principle of the European Union, namely free movement of persons. Of course, because of this, a certain pressure is being exerted by the European Union and a expectation is expressed, namely that we are effectively safeguarding the EU's external borders. This safeguarding of our external borders would have long been due, Mr Minister, at the latest with the fall of the Iron Curtain, at the latest with the political upheavals in our eastern neighbours. This is indeed a failure of your predecessors, and I expect you to address at least more fortitudes as no effective and efficient border army has yet been established. [[Abg. Swimmling: Take a look at the future!]] That is where you need action, Minister of State, there is a need for action. In this context, I would like to express my firm opposition to the fact that the assistance of the Federal Army may be extended for another ten years, as you wish. Federal Minister! This is then no longer an assistance mission, so that border security by the German army, which is carried out together with the executive, will be transformed into a core task of the federal army, and that does not correspond to our constitution. Put all the measures in line with your responsibility for the security police surveillance of our state borders! Realize all these measures quickly! Finally, in your responsibility as a member of the Federal Government with a constitutionally worrying use of the German army at the state border! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12425	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12446	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I followed Mr Leikam's accusation with interest to the address of Mr Partik-Pablé, who said that she had given a speech which we had heard before. [[Abg. Leikam: Excuse me for this action!]] [[Abg. Swimming: Twice!]] - Good, twice. At least in her speech, which I would like to acknowledge, she has dealt with those issues that a security speaker here in the House has to deal with, namely, the fundamental issues of internal security. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But that's very nice!]] Mr Leikam! Nine tenths of the speech by the SPÖ Security Spokesman – I say so once – have acted on the law of the association. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Kiss! I'm cheering you today!]] I was quite surprised at that. In addition, it was a verbal amok run for me, as I don't know it from the SPÖ's security spokesperson. I think we have other concerns and other problems in this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To the address of the SPÖ Security Officer: The inner security doesn't deserve to be so slicked off to be so bullied. [[Abg. Leikam: This is a propaganda!]] [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] Also addressed to the SPÖ address I say: The ÖVP stands for the clubs in this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP says Austria needs its clubs. [[Abg. Gaál: We say that too!]] We say Austria is richer by the clubs. They want Austria to get poorer. We won't let that happen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: This is a party-political abuse!]] Our form of interpreting citizens' solidarity is where we say: Where people are there for others, where people are willing to give more, there they have us on their side. That's what the ÖVP stands for! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: That's inappropriate! Indecent is what you do!]] If you have a splitter in your own eye, don't shake at the beam in the eye of another. Mr Leikam! Panel, how You currently have them, you deserve a sharp contrast. [[Abg. Leikam: This is party-political abuse!]] [[Abg. Gaál: Stay back!]] No, that's not party politics, it's nothing polemic, it's a bit factual. That's reality. Our clubs deserve this, and tens of thousands of people – women and men – deserve it in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: This is a party-political abuse! That's an inappropriate action! This is party-political abuse!]] I have not yet said a single word about the Minister for the Interior, but I have given only a weighting, a appreciation of the SPÖ security spokesman, Mr Leikam. [[Abg. Leikam: This is an untruth! They abuse party politics!]] I now come to what my job and my inner conviction is: internal security. [[Further call of the Abg. Leikam.]] I am in favour of what is being presented with this budget. We have more money for internal security in the 1998 budget, only the field of education has more in this budget. We have more posts, and this more can be seen with a 7.9 percent increase compared with 1997. The relationship between personnel expenditure and effort shows that we are going the right way, Minister of State. We have never had a lower staffing effort in an estimate – it's 69 percent – and we've never had a higher amount of work – it's 31 percent! For this line you have the support of the ÖVP! That's the budget that we're carrying! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In his speech, Mr Moser said something that we do not identify with – I have already mentioned it. Of course, the Minister of the Interior has us on his side when he raises a long-standing demand that the ÖVP promotes to his demand when it comes to extending the German army's assistance. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: This is a sluggish change of the federal constitution!]] It is the most reasonable human being, the most cost-saving variant, and the Burgenlanders, who come into the enjoyment of this assistance, know that it is worth having the soldiers at our border. That is why I say no to the considerations of the Liberal Forum! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] A small correction, Mr Moser – I don't want to express myself in any way –: We know that only with 1. In December, airport control in Schwechat enters into force and we tap the Schengen Information System computer. Only with 1. In April of next year we realized the internal borders, the border controls in the human area between Germany and Austria, between Italy and Austria, but not with 1. December. And with regard to Schengen, with regard to the issue of EU external border security, I have some questions to the Minister for the Interior, questions that are obvious, issues that are very serious about Austrian internal security. Federal Minister! What about the establishment of the border service: human resources and equipment? Are we on the plan? Is it true that all that the Schengen standards have in place is actually being implemented? Federal Minister! How does it look with the precautions for the veiling? Are we on the plan, are everything going the right way? Another question: Have you, Mr. Federal Minister, taken precautions to protect the "blue" border? – We believe that our "blue" border is still bleak as the so-called Swiss Emmentaler. What about the long promised creation of drawers, Mr. Interior Minister? There is still a lot to be done. I take the opportunity to point out something which must also be said in the context of this special debate on the internal security chapter. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you know that you have ratified an agreement with Hungary, with your colleague Gábor Kuncze. The Austrian National Council has not yet seen this agreement. We have not had it in the Committee on the Interior and therefore, of course, not yet in plenary. The amazing thing about this situation, which I am now briefly sketching, is an unmistakable volt of the mayor Stix of Burgenland. [[Abg. Swimmling: Stand on the agenda of the next meeting!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] He says that Hungary is to blame for not having ratified this agreement, which of course was willingly confirmed by the SPÖ Klubobmann of Burgenland, who immediately, if Stix says something, competes with the incense boiler. [[Abg. Swimmling: What is completely strange to you!]] It was assisted in the direction that he gave the population of the Burgenland completely false information that contradicted the facts. It is true that, until now, this suspension agreement has not been entered into the National Council that this suspension agreement has not yet been dealt with in the Committee on the Interior, that this suspension agreement has not yet been forwarded to the plenary session, since no discussion and no decision has been taken in the Committee on the Interior. I made a observation that I could hardly grasp, but it's true: Federal Minister! A member of your Ministry of the Interior has critical questions on the part of reporters – for example: Why has this suspension agreement not yet been dealt with in Parliament? – an unscrupulous answer by itself, which cannot, of course, be allowed to stand. [[Abg. Leikam: For God's sake!]] One of the officials of the Ministry of the Interior said that Parliament had more to do than ratify a push agreement. – Minister of State! It is not for an official of the Ministry of the Interior to make unqualified statements in this way. [[Abg. Leikam: The pillow has "style": official blasphemy!]] Secondly, he is not allowed to do so because he is committing the guilt of Hungarian friends, who can't prove to be able to do so. – The Hungarian Parliament has already ratified. Thirdly, I should like to say this as a Member of Parliament; I think I am also saying it on behalf of my colleagues: I won't be qualified by an official of the Ministry of the Interior who then thinks I know what's better. We treat carefully those materials that are brought in accordingly, and we examine and decide according to best knowledge and conscience! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude: What is the ÖVP for? – I have often said it enough, I repeat it here again. [[Abg. That's what we're asking ourselves! That is a difficult question!]] The ÖVP stands for a strong state. We stand for the strong state because we know that only the strong state guarantees the right, order and security of the citizens to whom our citizens have a right, in the long term and, as I believe, in an exemplary way. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Right and order! Untruths spread in this state!]] We stand for the strong state, even if the SPÖ does not want to hear it, because we are an engine of the government to identify what the Federal Government has taken in decisions on the chapter Internal Security. We are for hardness and consequence against criminals, against criminals, we are for full understanding and for help to the victims. – That is why I say that so that it cannot be argued the way it has become modern in this country. [[Abg. Swift: Retirers, widows and orphans!]] Security for Austria, security for our citizens – this is the line we represent, we fight for it, we make policy for it!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12832	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12862	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dobar ve#er, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. What are the greens for? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Good question!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Prevent businesses, prevent jobs!]] [[Violent calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The Greens are in favour of a strong rule of law, the Greens are in favour of respect for citizens and human rights in this country, and the Greens are in favour of Austria not being isolated internationally because of its policies, but of Austria being given a place internationally which respects the observance of these principles, namely, a strong rule of law. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Peace! For peace you stand!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Which greens do you think: the choir Lord Greens, the Wabl Greens, the Van der Bellen Greens, the Anschober Greens or the Oillinger Greens?]] Austria – and the Greens are primarily in favour of this and call for it – to be observed that the European Convention on Human Rights is simply and simply observed the Austrian Constitution, in which principles such as these are laid down, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Every green person is a political group!]] The Greens are in favour of safeguarding the tradition in Austria, which is a good tradition that has brought us an international reputation, of which we still benefit internationally, if we travel – if this is also done by mandates of the ÖVP – mainly due to the clever and differentiated foreign policy of a Bruno Kreisky, but also due to an asylum practice in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You have to ask every green person what he stands for! Every green person stands for something else! One stands for freedom of violence, the other for peace!]] We have learned from history, partly from the history of our own past during the Nazi era. And this is not insignificantly connected with political personalities, such as Bruno Kreisky, who himself had to endure a refugee fate. For this, ladies and gentlemen, Austria stands for a strong rule of law. And the rule of law should be at the heart of a debate on security and internal security. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a safe country! Austria is a country I like to live in, not just like, but very much. There is no place in the world I would prefer to live in rather than in Austria. There is no big city in the world in which I prefer to move rather than in Vienna. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] There is no comparable big city – Vienna is the only big city in Austria – in which you can move as a woman at night and in which the danger of being killed or injured by a drunk driver is much greater to become a victim of a crime. That is why I would like to live here, and therefore I strongly condemn that Austrian politicians who are totally unaccountable in this respect are insecure by panic – which is primarily due to the right political margin in Austria. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] When we talk about security, we should first and foremost talk about what security means. Federal Minister! I do not want to repeat today in the budget debate what I said only a few weeks ago in the debate on the 1995 security report. They listened to me at the time, and also again and again – as far as I saw that from the point of view – they concurred when it came to this subjective sense of security; and that is an essential part. I am convinced – I do not mean it only – that political parties have the obligation to act positively and calmly on the population when it comes to security and not to do the opposite! Panic mache and hetze is what we do not need in such a safe country as Austria! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that in Austria – this is not a praise to the Federal Minister Schlögl, but these are facts that I am taking away from the safety report, especially the new security report that has been presented – crime, considered overall, is falling and the education rate is increasing. In a country where the crime rate is going back and the levels of education are rising, it is my obligation – I mean, I have them – to say that the Austrian police have worked well and worked well and that I thank all Austrian police officers and all those who contribute to it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I do not want to vote in the choir of those who – we have seen it with a first speaker in this debate today – always act with the same records and the same accusations. This is taking advantage of, but what to do, every Member has the right to repeat something 27 times and to insure the population in an absolutely unacceptable way. Minister! I do not want to go ahead of what I am going to say to the 1996 Security Report – it will be debated in the National Council even before Christmas – but one thing I would like to say, especially my esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the EIA: Do you know that last year 1 027 people in Austria fell victim to a security problem, the biggest security problem we have in Austria? – The biggest security problem in Austria is road traffic! The biggest "arm", which can have a man and sometimes a woman in hand in Austria, is an automobile. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're talking about Anschober!]] That, ladies and gentlemen, really scares me. I am afraid that in the case of 7.3 per cent of the traffic accidents involving fatal alcohol and in the vast majority of major road accidents, especially fatal accidents, excessive speed was the cause of the death of people, and there were 49 673 road accidents in Austria last year. This must be kept in mind once: Nearly 50,000 people fall victim to the "arms" automobile! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why don't you talk about drug crime?]] Federal Minister! There I actually place to say politically "new-language" need action. I really need action when it comes to solving the biggest security problem in Austria. I'm looking for you and ask you: Do something to stop endangering human life and to save human lives! A contribution could be that we finally introduce the 0.5-promille limit. [[Congratulations with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's not the solution alone, but that could be a contribution to saving human lives. – This does not, of course, fit into the populist shaft of the security problem and crime, but is, in fact, a major problem. This is what I am prepared to do in a debate on budget breaks. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not only a lawyer and a minority speaker, but also a migration spokesperson of the Greens. The Federal Minister is not only responsible for road transport, information and border protection, but also for the integration and migration policy in Austria. Federal Minister Schlögl! The fact that what you are planning in connection with the new quota regulation does not find my approval will not surprise you. I think this is simple and simply a wrong approach. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's very uncertain!]] We have already had a lot of discussions about this, here too. I do not wish to put my remarks to an unnecessary length, because there will still be many occasions to hold this discussion. But, Mr Federal Minister, on the quota regulation does not decide the plenary session of the National Council, on which only the main committee decides – that is only a small part. Your draft quota will soon be passed on to the main committee. And just as the behaviour has been in recent years, Parliament has not yet shown courage to make substantial changes. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs Deputies! We've always shown Courage!]] That is why I can only address my appeal to you to take seriously those concerns raised in the review – concerns not by the Greens, but by the organizations and institutions which are confronted with this problem every day, namely, the problem of lack of integration opportunities and steps, the problem of sometimes occurring misbehaviors of authorities. Now I am referring to the current occasions of the last week, and I am particularly concerned because I found a statement from the Austrian Bishops' Conference on the Vulnerabilities in Austrian Foreign Law in the APA these days. I was not particularly surprised that the Austrian Bishops' Conference expressed its views on this; it has done so more often in the past. But what surprised me was the clear and precise words found by the Austrian Bishops' Conference, namely Bishop Weber as their spokesman. The occasion was the situation of Indian refugees at Schwechat Airport, as it was presented in the media. The Austrian Bishops' Conference literally speaks of a "eclatant deficit in human dealing with refugees". [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Should we all record...?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to add: There is not only a blatant deficit in dealing with refugees in Austria, but there is above all an blatant deficit on a legal basis for human dealings with refugees. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why are you insecure, Mrs. Stoisits? Why are you insecure?]] This police director from Schwechat – I heard the interview in the "time in the picture" – said – I express it in my words: I don't understand the excitement. That's always the way it is. Why is it a matter of allowing people to perish in the transit area – in the truest sense of the word – over weeks?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Because they were illegal!]] All of this is completely covered by law! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What moved Bishop Weber and the Episcopal Conference to take a position is not just the human drama reported as a singular event at the airport. It's not a singular event, it's more common, but it's been reported singularly. The media have reported on this group, many others have not yet been mentioned in the media. The bishops say: In the light of the recent reports, their concerns about the new right of asylum appear to be a new urgency. – Minister of State! I would ask you to pay attention to this. As a "small" green Member, although I sit here and have a vote, I have usually been voted down on these questions, please take the words of the "great" speaker of the Austrian Bishops' Conference Weber seriously. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But you're very un-assured!]] He asks you to consider, in particular, three points, what we have to do with 1. January 1998 expected. What's been happening in Schwechat now will be ours from 1st. January 1998 at every Austrian state border bloom, at the so-called EU external borders – in Nickelsdorf, in Klingenbach, in German Kreutz, to name only three that are in my federal state now. [[Abg. Wabl: Game field!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Thörl-Maglers]] Spielfeld, Eibiswald-Radlpass. Ladies and gentlemen! It's going to be 1. January 1998 does not give walking refugees in a transit area of the airport, but then people in the truest sense of the word will camp in the free field of the no-man's country – which means camping, they cannot camp at all, they can stay outdoors – because the Austrian, from 1. There are no other ways in which asylum law will enter into force in 1998. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What would you suggest?]] Federal Minister! I hope that you can think of what has been reported in the last few days in connection with the Schwechat airport and that you are prepared for this situation. I have warned you - not only I, but also the colleagues of my group and others - here in Parliament about the decision-making process, and I feel confirmed not only by the intervention of Bishop Weber, but again asked to do so. Mr. Federal Minister! It is indeed a serious problem, as we deal with refugees, how we deal with people who seek help from us, because it is not only an internal-Austrian problem, but a test stone for how the outside view of us is. The standard for democracy is always – in every democratic society – the treatment of minorities, the treatment of people who are weaker. We cannot shut down these standards. Federal Minister! I hope you're for the first time. ==References====External links== I am in that I will try to make my contribution when it comes to reducing human suffering at the border. But you could, as it were, keep me from this situation that is also personally precarious to me, by now setting up actions to protect us all from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13167	It has Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl in word. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13188	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Thank you very much for the previous statements; they have been very different and very controversial. I agree to address these questions, opinions and criticisms very openly and to answer them from my point of view. The first thing I would like to thank for is that all the speakers have made it clear that the 1998 budget is one that brings significant improvements to the past in the field of internal security, in the interior area. We have almost 1.6 billion schillings available next year than last year, and in the 1999 budget forecast, around 500 million more shillings are planned, and this is a very positive signal, a very positive sign. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to address the criticism that Mrs Partik-Pablé has made, in particular, that we will be making savings next year. To a lesser extent, this criticism is true; on the other hand, we will have a significant increase in staff in different areas. I could now argue, ladies and gentlemen, that we should look at the 1988 figures. At that time we had a total of 29,798 planning posts, at the end of 1998 we will have almost 34 000 planning posts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] If I argue that way, I'm sure I'm right. On the other hand, of course I must also agree that the years 1996 and 1997 have been painful for the Austrian executives, because in both years we had to save 500 plantations each. I was in a situation where, as a new Minister of the Interior, I had to execute these savings in part in 1997. That is why I am glad that the savings for 1998 will be extremely low and will be made by increasing the border area, but also by increasing in other areas at least from the number from which quantity is made. Mrs Partik-Pablé has criticised the fact that, in my opinion, in part, the crime rate is not satisfactory in international comparison. I believe that, in international comparison, we can undoubtedly see ourselves in relation to the crime rate that we can be very proud. We are the only country in Europe that has had a steadily falling crime rate in recent years and an ever-increasing education rate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: These are statistics!]] . Although you think that the statistics are, it is very clear that we are making clear progress in this area. I am glad that I am not a Minister of the Interior of another European State, such as France, Spain or Germany, where there are far greater security problems than we do. The comparison with New York is only partly correct, Mrs. Deputies. Of course, it is true that... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I already gave you the article last time! Have you read it yet?]] – You have already given it to me, and of course I have also read it. All that I get from you, I study very thoroughly, because it would be wrong to regard all that comes from Mrs Partik-Pablé as incorrect, because some things are also very serious. It is also true that there is a clear improvement in the security situation in New York. But, as Mr Schwemmlein has already said, we must keep in mind the level at which these crime rates and the number of murders have fallen, and in part the methods used, Mrs Deputies. I hope that, as Minister of the Interior, I will never be able to justify police attacks to the extent that I have to do with what the New York police officers had to do in recent months. I don't think we all want to. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But this is not really proof that it is! No, no, no!]] The reports of the police attacks that sometimes take place in New York must also be taken seriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But the strategies...!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can explain my strategy to you, as I believe, how to deal with crime, crime. I think you should have three main columns. First: The task of every security executive, every political person responsible, is to deal with all the hardships, with all the rigours against crime. The second pillar, the second task, is also to fight the roots of crime with all the hardness. If it fails to deal with the roots of crime, namely social insecurity, economic disaster, unemployment and similar phenomena in society, then crime will be promoted and crime will be cultivated and, on the other hand, there must be clear evidence! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not by chance that there are major security problems in France, especially around the large agglomerations in France. The reason for this is that there has been a lot of immigration there, a high level of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, which is well over 50 percent. This is still the feeding ground of crime. On the other hand, we must proceed. Thirdly, What is equally important to me, in order to address the suggestions made by Mrs Stoisits, is: The Austrian executive also has the task of doing everything in order to prevent, to prevent, to suffocate crime at its roots. We have great successes in some areas, and in some areas we need to get even better than we have before. Mrs Partik-Pablé said: It may be that the crime rate remains the same or may fall slightly, but at least in some areas we have concerns and problems that are all too often ignored or that we do not attach the relevant importance to. Member of the European Parliament! I believe that in three areas we have great problems, that we must have concerns about the future in three areas of crime in Austria, and I believe that it will be necessary to deal with it together. The first area you have just mentioned is organized crime. What is in front of us in the second district... – I believe that even with "my" people, if I may say so, there is a great awareness of the problem in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But your people don't believe that yet!]] What happened in the second district is only a sign of what may happen to us in the next few months, in the next few years. That is why it is so necessary and important that we try to deal with international, organised crime with the best methods of investigation, with the best international cooperation, but also with the best technical equipment and with the best personal and human resources. Austria is still a "Ruheland", a "rest" of organized crime in many areas. However, to an ever-increasing extent, we are a country that is besieged by organised crime coming from Eastern Europe, and we have the task of taking very vehement action against it. We are only at the beginning of an effective strategy against organised crime. And drug crime. You're right: This is a problem area that we simply don't have under control. I admit very openly here that the area of drug crime is very difficult for the Austrian executive. But let's not make the mistake of downloading it exclusively to the Austrian executive! The Austrian executive cannot solve this alone! This is a global social challenge in which all areas of our society are required! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To give you just one example: Two thirds of all female teenage drug addicts are girls who have been sexually abused in their childhood or youth. These figures alone prove the close connection and show that this cannot be a task for the Austrian executive alone, but that very many steps must be taken. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Socialist Education Policy!]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] That would be too simplified if it were to be reduced, Mrs Deputies. I can give you enough examples of how many drug addicts there are who in no way have anything to do with socialist families. I hope for everyone that we personally do not get into such a situation. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Shame!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You might be right if that were only an Austrian problem. But look around: Drug crime, drug dependence is not an Austrian problem, it is an international one and it is also happening in those countries in which there have been conservative governments for many years and decades. That's why it would be wrong to reduce it to that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, the Austrian executive has achieved significant success in recent years. The figures speak for this. The higher the number of ads, the more this is evidence that the Austrian executive is active. Only: We have not solved the problem with the advertising, arresting and condemning of a drug addict and a drug criminal; we must be aware of this. We must combat social and social causes and roots, and the executive can only be a small part. The third area that concerns me is the area of violence in the family and the sexual exploitation of unmistakables, minors, children and young people. In this area we have an enormously high number of dark ones. There are studies from Germany, which I believe are transferable to Austria, which say that every fourth girl and every tenth boy has been sexually abused in his childhood or in his youth in one form or another. These are numbers that just have to encourage us to think. We must jointly take all measures to combat the sexual abuse of children and young people. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The 1997 police criminal statistics, the three-quarters annual report, that is, January to September 1997, show that we have a huge increase in the number of known cases regarding considency and indifference with unmistakables according to §§ 206 and 207. If we still had 498 from January to September 1995, it was already 673 from January to September 1996 and 1 039 from January to September 1997. This means almost tripled within two years alone the number of known cases, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Sweamlein: But this is positive because people trust themselves!]] On the one hand, this is positive because the dark figure is getting a little smaller, but yet we must be aware that this is also a sign that there is still a huge number of dark figures. So much for me as for the family, and so much so I believe that in many cases the family is a place of the idyllic, the refuge and the contemplation, but too often the family is a place of violence, brutality and conflict. In this respect, we must act together. I am very happy that the Austrian executive has been serving since 1. In May, there was a legal opportunity to take action against violent offenders in the family and to have the right of way. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] Another issue on which I would like to comment very briefly is association law. Ladies and gentlemen! We shouldn't make the mistake and shoot guns. Everyone knows – I want to say this clearly – that: There is no wild socialist interior minister who goes against the clubs! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is in no way the case, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the contrary: I am like you, someone who has been working in politics for many years. Anyone who is active in politics is also active in many associations, is thus also a so-called "Vereinsmeier" and knows how necessary and important clubs are. We have in Austria to the hundreds of thousands of clubs, and it would be wrong to do something against the clubs. I should therefore like to assure you once again very clearly and clearly: There is no draft of the Austrian Ministry of Interior or the Austrian Interior Minister for the Reform of Association Law! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not even intend to reform Austrian association law, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen! - You're wrong with me. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But you said the same about arms law! It's just you didn't keep it!]] I have always said that I am in favour of reforming the right of arms. I was always one of those who confirmed this. I was slowed down by our coalition partner because he had a different opinion on this. But I have always made a clear and clear statement on the reform of the right of arms and I have said that in some areas I would like to have a strengthening of the right of arms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order to return to association law: I believe that if there is a reform of the right of association which can be sought without a doubt, because the right of association, which we currently have, is a little antiquated in order to formulate it in this way – it comes from 1951, but essentially it has the roots of 1867; I think it makes sense to discuss it – then this reform can only take place in broad political consensus. It can only be the goal of the association law becoming more practical that Austrian association law is disbursed and that the many tens of thousands of clubs in Austria have a simpler life than they do at present. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I stand for such a reform of association law, and I ask my coalition partner to support myself in this way. I'm going, dear Clubobmann Khol, even at the poll on 21st. In this sense, I hope that I will also receive the approval of the EIA. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We'll be there!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: With critical solidarity!]] – Solidarity is always good, honourable Member. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the border army and to the personnel equipment: The staff will be completed by the end of 1998. If, on Friday, the National Council adopts the amendment at second reading, it will be the case that the last 250 frontier workers, contract staff, with 1. to be included on September 1998 and the full staff has been provided. We will have completed and completed the technical completion during the next year. The veil flag is currently being discussed in close cooperation with Germany and Italy. We will have about 300 to 350 gendarmes in use for this. The question of the "blue" border is of great concern to me. We cooperate very closely with Germany in this regard and try to control better than has been the case so far. I'd like to tell you: It won't be that easy to control ships. Controlling a ship is much, much more difficult and much more personal intensive than some believe. But I have a great awareness of the problem! On the issue of the Signatory Agreement: I hope that it will be decided in Parliament this year. I would like to point out that the push agreement between the Hungarian Minister of the Interior and me on 17 November was signed. We have already signed April this year and we have agreed by hand that the content of this suspension agreement has already been unwritten between our two countries, most of which have been respected by Hungary. The fact that there have been delays to deposit in the National Council is correct. But this is not just the fault of the Ministry of the Interior, but at least the same as the debt of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – I would like to say this clearly here – because it was presented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Council of Ministers. But I recognize that perhaps we should have exerted more pressure than that. I hope it will be decided this year because it is very, very important. The question of moving spaces is important. My goal is to create 300 to 400 additional pushways throughout Austria by the end of 1999. This is not only to have additional space, Mrs Stoisits, but also because I believe that it is important and necessary for a separation between migrant workers and administrative detainees to be carried out. The Council of Europe has called for this, and I am also of this view. On the question of integration policy and the new quotas: I believe that, because of the great migration that has taken place in Austria, particularly in the last decade, the number of foreign citizens in Austria has almost doubled since 1985, it makes sense to keep immigration very, very low in the next few years and to substantially limit it to family integration. This is also due to the new immigration rate. In this sense, I believe that we are making a very clear and wise policy; a policy with which we do not adapt to the currents of time, but we are trying to adapt to the economic and social conditions of our country, but also to the awareness of the Austrian population. We could discuss the issue of asylum at the national border for a very long time. On the one hand, I am accused that the duration of the procedure is too long and that it sometimes takes weeks for someone to get a reply, on the other hand, it is criticized that asylum is being handled at the national border within five days. It is very difficult to find a middle path. I believe that the decision on a short-term legal system, i.e. the creation of clear legal authorities, was correct. This has happened in the new foreign law and in the new asylum law with 1. ==References== I believe that this is essentially a very good law. However, I would like to say straight away that I have always stressed that this law must not be the final conclusion of wisdom and that I would like to be prepared to present a report or an experience on this new law to Parliament after a year and to make adjustments in the field of efficiency, effectiveness and also humanity in one direction or another. I would like to present such a report, and I would also like to ask you to cooperate here.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13457	Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Gaál has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13481	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the budget chapter of internal affairs and not Carinthia. [[Abg. Kiss: From Carinthia comes Leikam!]] The Federal Minister has already pointed out this, but allow me a sentence on it, dear colleague Paul KissThe way, the style of the Carinthian actions you defend here and which you have spoken, will certainly not bring any votes, but rather cost votes. [[Call to the liberals: Who?]] [[Abg. Kiss: That's not the theme!]] The question you asked: Where is the ÖVP?, one will soon have to say: In the political offside! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You will have trouble defending the third place you take with clear distance today! – I really don't like that personally, but it will be. That's why I'm saying: You should get away from each other and find more together. [[Abg. Kiss: Your word in Leikam's ear!]] You should consider that in the future. As far as style and content is concerned, this action is certainly not suitable to speak the word to a meaningful one that leads to a successful policy in Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen! The present 1998 budget – which has already been confirmed by my previous speakers – is a forward-looking, forward-looking budget. It's a suggestion with a lot of ideas – even if it's claimed otherwise. The figures and facts give a much more positive picture. That is why I do not understand you, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, if you here claim that the statistics would be freezed, and you remain guilty of any evidence for this flat-rate suspicion, dear Mrs. Doctor. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Minister has already given me the right!]] They only claim something and remain guilty of any proof of it here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I was right about the Minister!]] They have said that the statistics are being freezed. This is almost equivalent to an abuse of office. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (keeping a paper in height) That's why he has the decree...!]] This is where righteous officials work, and I can confirm: No statistics will be freezed! – Your claims remain pure claims, you have not proved them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The decree from the Minister is coming!]] You, as a judge, will nevertheless prove that this was a somewhat unfair procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'm here as a politician!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Minister's release is there how to count these things!]] We know that despite the increasing crime, you can also read this from these statistics, Austria is one of the safest countries in the world and Vienna, one of the safest cities. I am also ready to talk about advantages and disadvantages of statistics. You can discuss this, I'll give you the right thing. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Minister has issued a decree! Why don't you listen to me when I say that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé) Because he's talking, not you!]] Only: To assume that statistics are "freed up", this is a very, very unfair procedure, especially with regard to the officials of this department. And that is why I have to reject this, Mrs. Partik-Pablé. Ladies and gentlemen! That Vienna is one of the safest cities and Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, proves that the existing budget resources have been properly used and that cooperation between the Minister of the Interior and Parliament, in particular the members of the Committee on the Interior and the dedicated officials of the Centre, works well, for which I would also like to thank the officials. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a reason why we have achieved great success in the recent past. In order to be really efficient, we have the legal requirements and optimal working conditions to create together for our executives. We have done so in the past, and we will do so in the future. We have taken restructuring measures to ensure that more police are on the street. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: At 83 it is less!]] And more police on the street means more safety. In addition, we were able to increase efficiency through organisational changes. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] We will continue to do everything we can, ladies and gentlemen, to improve security in our country and in our cities wherever possible. We are not only concerned with the protection and security of the population, but also with the protection and security of officials. This also proves the acquisitions in relation to equipment: Protective helmets, protective clothing and the like. We will also continue to try to increase the education rate in the overall crime rate, which is more than 50 per cent. This draft budget ensures a meaningful and effective distribution of available resources through profound changes in the organisational structure. That is why we will vote in favour of this draft budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13718	Mr Lammer has been reported to speak. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13739	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to refer to the comments made by the colleague of this House by the Greens. It has listed what the Greens stand for. She just forgot one sentence: The Greens are in favour of disarming the executives and their work of social workers. That was once again a statement by the Greens. – So "serious" one can take their statements! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Gaál! You mentioned the statistics earlier. The Minister of the Interior has already given my colleague, Partik-Pablé. These statistics have been manipulated by changing certain criteria in these statistics. For example, my colleague, Partik-Pablé, has quoted this as a criminal offence from the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs' decree. This has also happened with other offences. Therefore, it is assumed that there is a so-called manipulation of statistics, which has proved to have pushed down the number of crimes. In fact, this means that the number has not fallen but increased. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Minister! We are pleased that you also admit mistakes and admit that our criticism is something. That's what's drawing. She's a very compact interior minister. But we would also be pleased if you would also implement our concerns. You could thus show that you also consider our work to be so good. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! To the budget. That's what I'd say: There is a crying and smiling eye. A laughing eye, therefore, because the budget has increased in its total, and a crying eye is therefore being used because it is in those areas that concern the Gendarmerie and the police that there is less financial resources. One reason for this is that the money is very much involved in the border service of the Austrian Federal Army and also in other areas of the Ministry of the Interior. This is precisely what Mr Platter has already said in the Committee, which is why we suspect that there is a risk of internal security, i.e. that we are experiencing a deficit in the gender army and in the police due to the reduction of planning sites. I don't think that's the right way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One should also support the service of the Gendarmerie and the police in so far as the laws are increasing, the activity is becoming more intense and complicated and, in contrast, the necessary planning points are missing. But I would like to return to the accompanying laws adopted last week. Behind the good work of the executive, which was emphasized both by the socialist security spokesman and by the security spokesman of the ÖVP, are the liberals a hundred percent behind the good work of our executive officials. It is also said that it is important that the motivation and the use of officials is true. What does "Motivation of Officials" mean? Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Last week, the accompanying laws amended the pension system of public servants, including executive officials. First, pensions will be reduced with a cover and then from the year 2000. Let me give you an example, Mr Schwamlein: A 37-year-old official would be assigned to work for 40 years in accordance with today's salary table 26 829 S gross. According to the current pension scheme, he loses 8 806 p. [[Abg. Sweamlein: There are special regulations for executives!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction of Abg. You don't understand anything about it!]] Now explain to me how this should increase the motivation of an executive official! Mr Schwamlein, listen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. That's not true!]] You don't know what you're talking about. Or, second, discount payment. Does it have a positive effect on the motivation of executives if they have to expect a discount of between 0.8 and 4.2 percent? – No, that’s a blow against the motivation! Third – also agreed in the accompanying laws last week –: the additional fee values. A 32-year-old official suffers a loss of 25 percent of the additional fees. An official who can save and acquire additional fees from 2001 will lose up to 40 percent. [[Abg. Leikam: What do you lose?]] Does this increase the motivation of executives? - No, I don't think so. The same applies to the anniversary expenses, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Before 57. He doesn't get anything from the age of 57. ==References====External links== Age of 2.5 months and from 59. Three months of age. One no longer takes into account the length of his term of service in the executive. Should this increase the motivation? – No, that’s a blow against the motivation of the executives! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I would recommend that you: Keep yourself politically out of the safety field as far as possible! The mistake you are taking is not motivating the motivation, but hindering the work and increasing the problems of security enormously.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13863	Next word: Mr Platter. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13884	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to the SPÖ security spokesman Toni Leikam, I would like to deal mainly with internal security. But still allow me a footnote to the planned reform of the association law. I am mayor of a middle town, a municipality with 3 300 inhabitants. We have 31 clubs in our community. [[Unrest and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] - Please, listen to me! – As a result, the entire population is fully integrated into the clubs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it is totally unthinkable that interventions are made in the associations. [[Abg. Leikam: Who wants that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What reform are you talking about?]] I understand you, dear Toni Leikam, that you might want to have a nationalization of the associations because of your ideology. [[Abg. Leikam: This is unheard of!]] But I have to say: We can't let that happen. We're a hundred percent to the clubs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Gaál! The ÖVP is not on the political side, as you said. I believe that the ÖVP must prevent the implementation of certain considerations of the coalition partner, such as in the Waffengesetz and the Association Act. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should be a club speaker and not a security speaker!]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to inner security, which is of particular importance to me. The balance sheet in the field of internal security is, in principle, satisfactory. This report is satisfactory because security officials are undoubtedly doing excellent work and Austria is one of the safest countries in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This high standard of safety is primarily important for our citizens, but also for the tourism country Austria; a meaning that cannot be assessed high enough. However, this basically satisfactory balance sheet in the field of internal security must also be questioned critically. We have major deficits in the fight against crime, particularly in the area of organised crime and drug trafficking. Despite the excellent work done by security officials, more than two thirds of the crimes in Austria are not resolved. In addition, in the field of gang crime, we have a 20 percent increase, an increase of 7.3 percent in the area of drug trafficking. But there is also an increase of 32 percent in the use of addiction. This development is of course worrying for us. What can we do about this development? – Of course, international cooperation is needed in the area of organised crime and drug trafficking. However, in addition to the necessary international cooperation, I would also like to address our homework, which we need to do in order to improve the levels of education. – The answer to this is: Staff, training and, above all, greater priority for criminal service. First on the topic of personnel. I am pleased that in 1998 500 border arms will be added and 66 will be transferred from customs guards to the Ministry of the Interior. Border security is of enormous importance, but border protection alone is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The internal security in our country will only be satisfactory if, in addition to an efficient border service, high importance is attached to the security service within the country. But if I hear that 400 executive officials are to be saved in the coming years, I must say out of conviction: This, Mr Minister, is unbearable to our country's security policy. This partly means a hunger of the Gendarmerie and Police departments. I do not agree with these planned savings measures because I know what this means for the security of our country. Minister! I ask you: Don't allow these savings! Get involved with your Minister of Finance and with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany! With us, the ÖVP, have You're a good partner here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: more priority for the criminal service. I have made this request several times to your predecessor and would like to repeat it today. Traffic monitoring is extremely important, but be aware of the importance of combating crime! I know countries where traffic monitoring is almost exclusively carried out and where the collection of organ mandates is of particular priority, but the criminal service is partially neglected. Minister! I know what I am talking about – and the low level of information on the crimes confirms me in my opinion. The third point: Training. We have a training deficit at the executive in Austria. We, the ÖVP, have been calling for the implementation of the Security Academy for many years. If you, Mr Minister, have now said in the Committee on Budgets that you are expecting the construction of the Security Academy in autumn 1998, the cost of which will be between 260 and 280 million schilling, and that the operation of the Security Academy should be started in 2001, I am delighted and I am confident that you will do so. Only I ask for understanding for my skeptical attitude: For years now, there has been talk about land, buildings, office facilities, even the door signs, but nothing has happened so far. The ÖVP, on the other hand, has a well-designed concept, which has been developed with the help of outstanding professionals at so many working sessions. The ÖVP presentation is in line with today's demands of continuous, high-quality training, which includes objective criteria for managers and in which each official receives the appropriate training. Minister! I therefore urge you to give higher priority to the fight against crime in Austria through the following three points: Training, personnel and greater priority for the criminal service.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14009	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Kier. 9 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14030	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate has already highlighted a few aspects that I would like to address in the first place. In particular, I should like to make a point of what Mr Kiss has said regarding Mr Moser's assistance to the German army. I would like to make it clear: The border use of the German army as a normal instrument of border security in times of peace – that is the problem and not the fact that the border on and on itself is a zone that needs security monitoring. The fact that the German army is becoming a rule instrument is a problem. Assistance use means temporary assistance, and we make a permanent use of it. This has been criticized by my colleague, and I would like to join in with this criticism. I therefore reject Mr Kiss's criticism. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Col. Kier! What is the alternative?]] With regard to the club debate here: I am certainly a follower of a most liberal association law. It has already been mentioned here that the current situation dates back to 1867. It is one of the classic liberal laws of this era of the beginning constitutional state with coalition freedom and freedom of association. But it would be a mistake, as it is now, to explain as a sacrosanct, because it is certainly a flawless law, and it is certainly further developmentable. That's why I'm saying: If a survey on this issue is announced and the Federal Minister has explicitly said that there is no draft of his house, then there is no reason to panic, but that is perhaps a reason to think about it: What is the lack of association law? I mean, for example, a proper club register with modern standards would be a fine thing – without burdening the clubs with bureaucracy. This would create legal certainty for all: for the clubs and for those who have to deal with clubs because they can make sure in a regular register whether someone represents a right-wing association or not. We're doing this the same way with the companies. That is why, I believe, this excitement and the immediate call for a strong state and for law and order in this context is really inappropriate. If I may recall those who haven't heard it before, perhaps a pillow quote: Mr Kiss said that the ÖVP was the "motor of this government" – probably meant in security matters. I'd say, rather the auxiliary engine with slide coupling. I'll tell you what I mean. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum.]] They conjure up the strong state, but they don't define it. I'm worried about what you could mean by that. We are of course also for a strong state, but for a strong rule of law. That's where I deliberately quote one of my previous speakers. For a state is only strong if it also adheres to its own rules and if it manages to achieve this right – and if it uses them with care and does not practice, for example, the noise attack at a time when it had not yet been decided. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is not a strong state, but it is a presumptuous state. And that is bad and, above all, not really democratically legitimate. But the slippery, Mr Kiss, that's arms law. They are calling for the strong state, but if the law of arms is to be introduced into a new order, then the state could show its strength. But there you say at once: No, not with us! You seem to prefer it to be the same as in America, where anyone who wants to buy a gun can buy it, and if he is only satisfied that he at least has it at home. And then what happens to it, we know that. For so many things that happen to violence in the family are also more dramatic by the fact that we may have a somewhat negligent right of arms. And whoever stands for the strong state, but at the same time when the law of arms is tightened, apparently gets the tremor, is an auxiliary engine with slide coupling! I'll tell you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Kiss: After two years of intensive consultation, we have one of the most modern arms laws in Europe!]] In addition to this, Mr Kiss has dealt exclusively with safety issues concerning the safety concept. Now I'm telling you from this point of view: Of course, a state that uses the monopoly of violence – and therefore also advocates strict arms law – needs a rule of law and good security executive. That's perfectly clear. But it is the instrument you use if you no longer have any other possibilities. It is the Ultima ratio, the permanent threat, the deterrence. But a sense of security must be more comprehensive, it must also contain preventive crisis management, and it must also look at whether a society is designed in such a way that the crisis situation, where perhaps someone is also taking action, is prevented as far as possible and not only needs to be corrected in the rear with the use of the monopoly of violence. In one example, I would like to point out how we deal with this overwhelming trend, namely in the field of pushyness. We regularly take people into custody who know that they cannot be postponed at all, because the situation is such that this is not possible because of international and human rights. So I ask you: What are you doing? In addition, we know that a day of thrust costs the covenant between 650 S and 700 S, while a day of federal care would be about 200 s. So if you already want to "carry on" these people, then care for them, but not in the form of chastity, because this is a form of care that does not correspond to human dignity and, moreover, is not entirely in the sense of purpose. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Federal Minister said that he saw three variants to help reduce the lack of thrusts, perhaps to build something in Schwechat – against which the costs seem to be because the architects think that the cost is 130 million schilling, and he thinks he can spend only 80 for it – as variant two to build a barracks and as variant three the review of the expansion of the current institutions. That's why I wonder why he forgot the fourth possibility. The fourth way to eliminate the push-on dilemma would be to take fewer people into custody. Then he wouldn't have this dilemma either. It can only be a ultima ratio if someone is actually in the dramatic suspicion of doing legal abuse here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I hold this so firmly, and I mean, Minister of State, who does not consider this fourth possibility makes a mistake. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] On the other hand, I would also like to make a praise at this point. The praise refers to the still extended residence permit for Bosnians. A comment on the quota question: Mr Federal Minister, I am not happy that you have dealt with the quota issue in this way and have neglected one of the essential tasks, namely the harmonisation of the right of residence and employment. That would be security policy with prophylactic effect, something we repeatedly demand from you, although we know that you are not directly responsible for it, but are not heard at all. Your voice in the Council of Ministers does not fade either. If you talk to your colleague Hostasch a little more often, maybe something can be moved here. As a memo at the end: Federal Minister! In a ministry like yours, where accord decisions – you know what I mean – could be proved in a certain department of your home, in the responsibility of a very specific section head, in such a ministry, I do not think the security in a rule of law is well lifted. Perhaps in a state of cutback from Mr Kiss, but not in a liberal rule of law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14126	Mr Schwemmlein, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14147	High house! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I intend to deal essentially with questions from the Security Academy, but allow me to make one point: Mr Lammer spoke of motivation. I am quite on his side when he says that motivation for every employee is a very decisive and important thing. But I am also convinced that conscious misinformation and misinformation is depressing, as was the case with the example that Mr Lammer has brought. And if someone demands motivation, then he should not be de-motivated at the same time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I allow myself to emphasize this with an example. Mr Lafer spoke about "average officials" under quotation marks. I suppose he's talking about the district inspector, who's not a member of a very high income. He said it would lose 8,000 s by the pension reform. This can be read in the minutes. – The fact is that this is not possible because of the decisions we have taken. The amount he loses through this act of solidarity, which we all want to carry in here, is about 2 000 s. You all know, we've made a cover that will be valid until 2020. That is why I say again: Whoever speaks of motivation must not be discouraged! To the Security Academy, ladies and gentlemen. It is a matter of course – and we learn the day after day – that change is a more constant one. Many technical, social and social conditions change. I think it is also essential to prepare safety executive staff carefully for these constantly new requirements. It is therefore important to get away from the traditional, traditional training facilities in order to achieve a higher level of professionalization. I think we can achieve this with the planned Security Academy. The Security Academy is expected to meet personnel expectations. This means that it should increase the personal, social, technical competence of graduates. The aim is to promote the personal further development of the students, provide training incentives, increase professionalism and career opportunities. It is therefore of great importance that we also consider what this Security Academy should do in the end and achieve in the final outcome. It is essential that the entire training spectrum of the safety executive be coordinated. It is essential that it serves as a police research centre and location for managerial training and imparts action-oriented knowledge. Above all, I believe that we should not shut down this and that it is a hub for national and international knowledge transfer. I am therefore convinced that it is important, because of all these many requirements which the Security Academy will meet and will meet, that we grant it the status of a technical college, especially because the quality of the knowledge to be imparted in the future warrants this. That is why I believe – and I ask you all to support this idea – that the Security Academy represents a quantum leap in the training and training of our security officials. Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl goes the way to the realization of the Security Academy consistently and goal-oriented. We will all support him as much as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14202	The next speech is by Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14223	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few points about the interior area. Previously on Mrs Stoisits, perhaps: They criticised Members of the Partik-Pablé because they pointed out the high crime rate and called for measures in this regard. I do not think that this is a panic and that it is the right response to it when you say that it is more likely to be harmed in the event of a traffic accident than to be the victim of any crime. I think that apples should be compared to apples and pears here. Of course, one should do more for road safety, but one should fight – and hopefully there is – more massive than before – I already know that this may not be such a problem in the Burgenland or in other areas not so densely populated – in the big city against an existing or still threatening crime, especially as regards gangs and organised crime. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should take action before it is really too late. We have seen this on the foreign question. If, in time, the unbridled migration in the late 1980s had been suggested by a bar, as we demanded, then we would have saved ourselves many problems, which we are facing today in the agglomerations of Austria. Federal Minister! A problem area, namely border control, has already been addressed several times today. We see that there is no warning here but, quite the contrary, that the number of seized illegals is rising. More than 5,000 illegals were seized from January to October 1997. It can be assumed that the dark figures will be correspondingly higher, especially if it is true what I am hearing, that much of the problem areas of the border still cannot be controlled, or that there are silent agreements, for example, what certain areas of forestry can happen, that one does not control there, because otherwise one could disturb the game and hunting pleasure of some hunting tenants. I hope these rumors are not true. In any case, however, we know that much of the problem of border areas is still not adequately secured. [[Abg. You are not proposing that the hunters make border controls!]] – Mr Schwamlein, you too should take a little more seriously. They are always asking for substance, and I believe that the issue of the problem of eastern borders is very important, and we should therefore try to address this problem with appropriate substance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Above all, Minister of the Interior, if it is so, as you have said recently, that the German army should remain at this border for another ten years. Interestingly, you assume that the enlargement of the EU has already been completed in ten years and that we are no longer the eastern border of the European Union. I hope that this will not be the case, because otherwise the Austrians will have to deal with the next economic problems, budget deficits and high unemployment again, because we will have to pay for enlargement after accession to the EU, after the introduction of the euro. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Federal Minister, you yourself said that ten years the German army should stay at the border. But then we hope that this assistance will finally be put on a professional basis. For I too think it is a problem to have an assistance mission, which should be temporary, which should be a support of the German army for another place in a limited time frame, cut out and expand endlessly. That must not be because it represents a provisional. And in many areas, we see that it is still a commission, which is the accommodation, what the catering, what the personnel assignment is about, what the material is going to do – there are still complaints in this respect – and above all, that is the most important point as regards the budgetary security of this assistance. I already know that you or your place of business save a lot of money from the fact that the Austrian Federal Army is safeguarding the border with land defence servants. I believe that in the area of national defence, where we have one savings budget to choose from here, the next savings budget in the field of national defence will be decided tomorrow... – Parliament, colleague! [[Abg. Donabauer: You didn't decide!]] Thank God we are not co-responsible for these savings budgets, which would not, in any case, mean a chance of survival for our basic defenses. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Donabauer.]] You should consider what you have to do with this, Mr President. It'd be better than blaring down any calls here. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Minister of the Interior! You should come to the Federal Government to transfer at least some of the money you save in your place of business to the area of national defence. Half a billion schilling costs the Austrian federal army of this assistance. In the present budgetary situation of the army, I do not think that such a takeover of tasks, which should actually be carried out by your place of business, is possible. Second point, Minister of the Interior, and that relates to: Measures against illegal foreigners in Austria. We lack the concepts of how you will solve this problem, which is still up-to-date, especially in the constituencies and, above all, in Vienna, Mr Schwamlein. [[Abg. Swimmlein: What's your concept?]] We have been representing this concept for many years, Mr Schwamlein, namely that, first of all, in targeted actions – although we were the first, but not last, who required it – we are dealing with the problem areas, for example through plan square actions, illegal foreigners, and then we are really delegating them consistently. But it is not a matter of paying them a ticket, just as it is still practical, and saying: Dear friends, please leave this country, hoping that they will do the same. Or we have called for the possibility that illegal foreigners who are insubordination may be released by hunger strikes, which will then be released and diverted into illegality. These would be measures, Mr Schwemmlein, which once... [[Abg. Swimmling: How many are these?]] These are very many, and they are exemplary. Ask Mrs Partik-Pablé, who has to do with this in practice. [[Abg. I don't believe it all!]] Mr Schwamlein, I invite you to go to the problem districts of Vienna, and look at this! If we are really committed to the integration of foreigners and to solving these problems, we must work primarily towards resolving the abuses in this area, and that is what we have to do in the first place in the area of illegality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One last point, Minister of State: I do not think that it is now possible, with a law of its own, to make it possible for the former Bosnian war refugees to remain in Austria. I'm telling you, too, why: There are currently 730 000 legal foreigners in Vienna. You yourself have recognized thank God that further immigration is not possible at the moment, and yet you are now enabling some tens of thousands of Bosnian refugees to remain in Austria. In my opinion, this is dangerous insofar as these refugees have come to Austria under completely different conditions. We were all – and I think there was a consensus in Austria – for granting admission to these persecuted people in Austria. But we all assumed that, when the war activities have ended, these refugees will return to their homes and try, with our help, to build up a new existence. This was also the confidence that the people have put in their actions. Now it seems not so, now these refugees can stay with us and don't have to go back. And, Minister of State, what will be the case for future refugee actions? Then there will no longer be any understanding among the population of the population that we are in favour of a temporary reception because everyone can assume that, like the Bosnian refugees, there is a hidden immigration. You should consider this if you also wear such measures in legal form.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14364	Next word: Mr Dr Maitz. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14385	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to my immediate subject, I would like to give my colleague Scheibner an answer to his criticism of the German army's commitment to assistance at the border of Burgenland. This use is flexible and cost-effective. That is why it is true that the German army is making this border guard against illegal immigration. I am quite right, however, if he demands that we enter into negotiations on the part of the Ministry of State Defense and the Ministry of the Interior in order to talk about a cost sharing. Although it is equal to the citizen from which the sack is paid as long as it is handled cost-effectively and flexibly, it is not understandable for the army members who have to save so much and improvise so much that this measure is exclusively at the expense of the federal army. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We spoke yesterday in the chapter on Justice on the harmonisation of substantive and formal criminal rights, and we believe that this is an important condition for a better fight against organised crime. Today at the Chapter I would like to draw attention to other important conditions in the fight against organised crime. It is about the length or the reduction of police cooperation required by us. I would like to illustrate this in a concrete example, from the practice of our criminal department in the Landesgendarmeriekommando Graz. A foreign drug courier was arrested in Graz, who had written down a wealth of telephone numbers and addresses in his notebook. In order to determine greater links, the Graz office via Interpol has tried to identify the connection participants and to explore their possible criminal pre-life. That's what it looks like in concrete terms: The Graz department shall send the request to the Security Directorate. This goes on to pass on the written phrase to the Interpol Central Centre in Vienna. This request is extended to the target country's interpol centre. This is sufficient for the Regional Security Authority and finally for the local police department, which is doing the actual work there. This long way back over five stations and over five stations is so time-consuming that it becomes completely inefficient for the criminal tactic work. That is, in the meantime – which takes several weeks – the perpetrators have long removed the evidence, and we are unfortunately the second if we want to clarify. In addition, in some countries a public prosecutor's or judicial authorization is necessary for the questioning of secret numbers by telephone operators. This very often hinders the reconnaissance. I would like to point out another lack of technical means to combat organised crime. It's about phone monitoring of mobile phones. It is clear that in today's development, criminals use almost exclusively mobile phones for their agreements. And our criminal officials, unfortunately, cannot do this monitoring of mobile phones because there are no technical facilities on the part of the network operators. In August of this year, in the Telekom Act, we decided on an obligation for operators to produce the so-called technical interfaces for such monitoring. Now I am told that these mobile network operators, including the large Austrian PTA and the private, will challenge this law at the European Court of Justice. That would throw us back. Federal Minister! I would ask you to take advantage of your opportunities to dispel these societies. Finally, I would like to make a mistake and ask you all to counter this, namely to believe that rigorous controls at borders, which must be very necessary and very efficient, could prevent organized crime from coming from Austria. I stay with the example of addiction: A truck load of heroin seized at the border and the arrest of the driver are a great success. But a genuine, efficient and sustainable fight against organised crime lies in the comprehensive recognition and destruction of the human, financial and industrial structure of these criminal gangs. And this work, as we all know, is doing the criminal departments in the interior of the country. Therefore, there must also be a clear yes for the increase at the border, but not at the expense of the departments inside the country. This must be our aim, in both areas, to create the best possible fight against organised crime. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14442	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. The remaining speaking time of the entire liberal club is 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14464	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the short remaining time, I will confine myself to the issues of addiction crime and drug problems. If you have said in your remarks, Mr Federal Minister, that the problem of drugs is unfortunately not under control in Austria, I must give you the right, although I am of course aware that it is not to be reduced to zero. But I would particularly like to point out one thing, namely that, especially among young people, the problem of addiction is constantly increasing. There are 13-year-old drug deaths. Ecstasy is on the rise, a "modedroge", as I mean, impoverishingly called "modedroge", a designer drug that we know already have types of Ecstasy pills that can already have fatal consequences with their delaying effect and with a intake of about three pieces. We know that nerve damage has already been scientifically proven due to the intake of Ecstasy. Mr Federal Minister, I am particularly concerned to note that we are not taking Switzerland as a model in this regard, as did the Vienna drug coordinator Hacker. He compares this with a calming position I think it should not take place. With regard to a pilot experiment to be carried out in Vorarlberg in connection with a similar state heroin levy, Mrs Motter regretted that this was far too slow. I would just like to point out the failures in the methadone programme. I note that the Liberals have obviously not learned anything from it and have no consequences. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! When I think about the statistics for 1998, which will be published in 1999, I believe that it is the danger given that on 18 June 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in its opinion on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes, and on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I would point out that in commercial tablets, about a quarter of t to half a gram of weight and only part of it is active. And this limit-set regulation, which is to be adopted, allows you, for example, to have a 50 percent active substance content and 40 grams of authorised amount of active substance...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14493	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14508	Finally, Mr President. – This limit-set regulation allows 160 half-gram tablets or 320 one-quarter-gram tablets, so to speak, as party delivery, saying that unfortunately God does not provide a summary clause. I would ask you, in conjunction with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, to work to ensure that drug crime and drug addiction are not sought and found alibi solutions, but that this crime is effectively opposed and effectively combated. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14542	Mrs Perfuss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14563	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In December, Austria will be a full member of Schengen and will therefore also assume responsibility for Europe's security if, from April 1998 on, EU-internal borders will fall. It is gratifying to note that Austria is very well prepared. I recall the border control law, the arms law and the visa provision, regulations which will enter into force at the beginning of next year with the other Schengen relevant provisions. As a result, Austria has better standards in this area than the rest of the EU. Since July 1997, 5 500 people have been employed in border control services. It is a good side effect – I am living at the border – that the rate of crime is already falling in the area of border districts. I was recently able to convince myself of the efficiency of border control, and I can report that border officials are not only very motivated but also well equipped. The officials have a very difficult service there, and I therefore believe that we must do everything we can from policy to support it. [[Abg. Swimmlein: (Applause) We do that too!]] Mr Scheibner has, as always, painted black and white and has led the increased intrusion of illegals to the fact that there are more illegal border crossings. Mr Scheibner. It is a fact that the good technical equipment and the motivated officials are the reason for the increased intrusions at the border. The balance sheet in the Styria can be seen: In 1996, 139 illegals and 20 tugs were seized since the Federal Army worked in the border service. In 1997, 244 illegals and 31 tugs could already be picked up. Mr. Federal Minister! Please allow me a very personal comment in this regard: Our Austrian border guards are certainly exposed to dangers and difficulties that we, I believe, must face more in the future. It is precisely them that are in the great field of tension to guarantee border security on the one hand and to respect the human dignity of the refugees on the other. We must strive to make it possible for officials, in addition to regular qualifications, to have psychological training so that they can overcome this tension. During my visit to the border surveillance post in Soboth, officials encouraged a full training of all border officials. I support that. I would like to take one step further and allow myself to ask that this full training should also be carried out by a human world view, so that aggression is guaranteed to be eliminated as much as possible. Finally, I would like to say that contacts between officials and the population are working well, and I would like to thank you from this point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14609	The next speaker is Mr Sauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14630	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! An old proverb says: The world lives on the people who do more than their duty. I mean the people who work in clubs. It has already been pointed out several times today to the clubs. The Federal Minister has stated that from his ministry there will be no "attack" – I would say – on the clubs. I hope I can rely on a minister's word! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: Why not? That is of course!]] Because that would of course also be a certain security factor for those people who work in clubs. I think we're... [[Abg. Sweamlein: Why do you act with distrust? Don't act with distrust! The Federal Minister has acted, and that's it!]] I'm not acting with distrust! I only hope that the Federal Minister will also deliver his word. I can remind him in a different context of what he said about the arms law. I'm actually on that subject that I've done. The Weapons Act is hardly in force for three months. However, it has already been said of a renewal when it was not yet in force, ladies and gentlemen, because there has been an occasion – unfortunately God's a very tragic one. However, when I look at the newspapers of recent times, I have to say that there have been some violent crimes with a deadly outcome, which have always been in play. The headlines, for example: "Bauer in dispute with Messer astounding", "With cut throat dead in the marriage bed", "Youth in front of disco with knife" and so on and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the case of Mr Kier's report, we must also prohibit the knives. I think it would not be very useful if a cook had to make a psycho test before cutting onion to use its "arms" knives. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. He doesn't need a knife! He can take the cyliss back!]] Possible! [[Abg. May. Posch: Above all, the ÖVP men are afraid of knives!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] Yes, these are knives, but there are others too, Mr Kier! I believe that we do not necessarily need to act to present a new bill. At least I accepted this until I read yesterday in the 'Salzburger Nachrichten': "Schlögl shoots sharp." [[Abg. May. Posch: Should the lock ban the knives?]] In this connection, I would like to remind you, Mr Minister, of the floor you gave in committee, where you said that the exceptions to the arms law for hunters, sportsmen and clubs will continue in the future. At the request of the honourable Member, Mr Platter, you have given this word a second time in the House. Federal Minister! I trust your word. But one thing is to be clarified: The Austrian Weapons Act has only been in force for three months. Let's give this law a chance! If it's good, we don't need any changes if it's bad, we'll change it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14739	Mr Achs has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14760	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few clarifications on Mr Kiss's comments. As far as the ratification of the Schub Agreement with Hungary is concerned, Mr Kiss said that the Minister of the Interior and the Head of State of the State would be responsible for the delay. – Some clarifications: Pauli Kiss knows very well that the Foreign Minister's office is responsible for this and that the whole matter has been postponed there. ==References====External links==* Official website April 1997 – several times in vain asked for appropriate drafts. After the repeated request has not been taken into account, the explanatory observations and reservations have been submitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is therefore by no means a failure of the Minister of the Interior, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for delaying ratification. Ladies and gentlemen! On the draft budget, I would like to say the following: Through the 1998 budget, we can continue our solid security policy course and path. It is ensured that Austria remains one of the safest countries in the world. This high level of safety does not come from about: It is the result of a policy with far-sightedness, a policy that has recognised and mastered the new security challenges of recent years. The security of the EU's external borders became a central issue of security in our country as a result of Schengen's accession. With the implementation of the Schengen approach – more freedom to the inside and more security to the outside – wide-ranging structural and human resources measures have been launched. Today it can be said that these measures have now widened, both in technical and human terms. A further 250 border arms will be included in the next year. Not later than 1. This figure will be doubled in January 1999. The development of recent years shows that there is an increased need for protection in border regions. Every day, the population faces problems of illegal immigration. The number of cross-border offences has increased in these regions. Nevertheless, the population can feel secure through the dedicated work of the executive and the assistance of the federal army. The increase in the education rate is a clear sign of the quality of our executive. But the German army is hardly any more to be thought away in border security today. The nearly 2 000 soldiers at the long EU border of the Burgenland give the population the sense of security through their constant presence. They are an essential part of a security policy approach. Therefore, the extension of assistance beyond the turn of the millennium in Burgenland has come to great agreement. It is also a question of further expansion of the professional border service. By increasing staff and increasing safety standards, the network against tractors and other criminals is becoming increasingly tighter and denser. In addition, the extension of border security also increases security in the hinterland. That is why the Gendarmerie together with the Federal Army and the Customs Guard ensure that all people in our country can feel safe and comfortable. I don't want to thank these people for their great work. The new challenges must be met with modern means. Let us give the executive the means it needs to continue to guarantee our security! [[Abg. Kampichler: Super!]] The budget for the coming year will meet this requirement, Mr Commissioner. More personnel and more expenditure of 1.6 billion schilling are a clear signal for even more security in our country. This is not generosity, ladies and gentlemen: It is in our greatest interest, rather, that Austria remains a leader in the field of security in Europe and in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14798	Mr Auer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14819	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is probably indisputable that, in addition to a flourishing economy, in addition to social security, in addition to the workplace situation and employment security, it is an essential task of the State to protect citizens and give them the sense of security. Ladies and gentlemen! This task is carried out by the Federal Minister. The budget will also meet these requirements. I would like to thank the fact that the new challenges relating to the Schengen Agreement have been adopted and have been responded to, because, in return to the open borders, police cooperation at international level is essential. This, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, could be driven a little faster. We all know that Schengen brings not only less waiting time for individual citizens, but also greater security and that serious crimes such as organised crime cannot be hindered by passport checks. Because if it were so simple, it would be easy. Despite the Schengen Agreement, despite the planned establishment of Europol's European Police Office, it is also important for me to know how it is for the individual local, local and district Gendarmerie post. How and under what conditions can officials responsible for the smallest area, the area of the communities, take care of our safety? I spoke yesterday with an official who has such a task on the ground, because I am interested in the practice and not so much in what the opposition is trying to give us. I am interested in what someone says, who works on the ground, namely a gendarmerie official, who is politically not part of the "color" of the Federal Minister. My questions to him were as follows: What's missing on the spot? Where are there any problems? What's the equipment? How are the protective devices? What is the payment? I've been interviewing these officials in recent years. This time he told me that if he is honest, he is very satisfied with what has happened in recent years and in particular under Federal Minister Schlögl. – That should be recognized once too! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This staff representative would still have a wish: Perhaps it would be possible – and this would be particularly true of the Federal Minister – to proceed with the occupation of planning posts after an objective procedure, which is clearly defined. Another point is bureaucracy. Thankfully, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to address here – and you, very quickly, have given us an appointment for a discussion – the election cost replacement and the leadership of the electorate evidence; a problem that the local authorities have addressed very often. In fact, it is incomprehensible that there is a need for multi-faceted rulings for such charges. I have here a notice from my community concerning the leadership of the electorate for the year 1995. I don't have that message until 12. September 1997 – two and a half years for a four-sided notice! The same applies to election costs, which must be mentioned exactly how many hours, how many overtime hours, how much electricity, how much office costs and so on have been spent. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I'd like a flat-rate bill. Thankfully, you sent me a written answer. I am not entirely of this opinion, I assume that one of your officials has written this letter – I quote –: "Such a list would be unfair, but those communities who now carefully pass on their requests for costs to the competent office of the state government would be punished as well, on the other hand, those communities which have so far not taken care of the remuneration of the election costs." Federal Minister! It is probably true that those communities that have not yet tried to replace costs have ultimately contributed to the conservation of the budget. It should also be noted that at the 1992 Federal Presidential election of the Federal Republic of Germany, 771 municipalities, in the 1994 National Council election of 629 municipalities, did not apply for an EU vote of 715 municipalities and 1 475 municipalities with almost 2 million electorates did not apply for the leadership of electorate in 1994. Why do you think? – Because the bureaucracy is too complex and too cumbersome for them. I would think that if it were possible in Upper Austria to grant a flat-rate election fee in the election of the Landtags, that would have to be possible at the federal level. All in all, I would like to congratulate you, Mr Federal Minister, on your position in office. We are happy to vote in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14886	Mr Dietachmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14908	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1994 budget figures speak a clear language compared to 1998. They are proof that the SPÖ and thus its Minister of the Interior Franz Lösnak, Caspar One and Karl Schlögl, in cooperation with the respective finance ministers Lacina, Klima and Edlinger of Internal Security, have always given a particularly high priority. The internal budget approach has continued to increase both in terms of actual expenditure and in terms of staff expenditure; the figures have already been mentioned. I would particularly like to say a few words about the expenditure on matters. There is the concept of objective and subjective security in the population. Subjective security means that you feel secure when you meet a security officer on the street or elsewhere. But you have to say objectively: The number of officials in the strip service is not only important, but also the number of those who facilitate their work and make it much more efficient. As a result, figures have increased dramatically in recent years, particularly in the field of physical expenditure. I would just like to point out, as an example, that the computer budget increased from 378 million schilling in 1994 to 576 million schilling in 1998 alone, which means an increase of about 200 million schilling. Austria is thus in a position to fully meet the requirements of the Schengen Agreement – one is thinking only of the Schengen Information System and of Europol obligations. In 1998, about 11 600 on-screen jobs will be available to the members of the entire safety executive. In comparison, the 1994 figures: There it was only 3 553. The figures for the 300 border readers in 1998 are still not included. I believe that this is also a very essential factor in ensuring that, if necessary, passports can be controlled accordingly. The EDV sector is particularly important. In the brochure, which I believe is very informative about the Ministry of the Interior, it is mentioned in the section on the "Principle of Education": In the field of security management, the use of EDV is essentially for the purposes of search, information and communication. - Quote. Since 1994, the Bundesgendarmerie has also been able to make substantial efforts to exchange radio equipment and telephone systems alone, to purchase mobile phones and emergency transmission facilities and, above all, to improve the radio network, the establishment of so-called state control centres in the state army command. Now, each army department in Austria has at least one copy machine, which was not taken for granted a few years ago. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the Federal Army also places improvements in its official buildings. Working conditions should be improved for our gendarmen, who do not always provide a pleasant service, so that they can find at least better accommodation. I am particularly pleased at the 1998 budget that the adaptation of the premises of the Vienna police's alarm department in the Roßauer Kaserne can be carried out quickly. In this way a long-term wish of the alarm department, namely from the current location of Liechtenwerderplatz, can be met to return to the Roßauer Kaserne. That is why, even though you, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, and I am particularly referring to the liberals and Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, who are always making the efforts of the Minister of the Interior worse, can be spoken of as a very good budget. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Once again you didn't pay attention or you didn't understand! The Minister himself has given me the right!]] I believe that the executive officials have good working conditions because the huge investments of recent years in the equipment and equipment sectors are now fully usable.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14946	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. 5 minutes of time limit. - Please. [[Abg. Großruck: How much is the total time left by the ÖVP?]] 13 minutes Total residence time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14976	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Without going into suspicion of wanting to scatter roses or being "schlöglphil" to you, Minister of State, I must congratulate you. [[Abg. Swimmling: Trust yourself calmly!]] Federal Minister! They have succeeded in curtailing the distrust that the executive had toward your predecessor, in restoring confidence in the executive, and in restoring the work of the individual officials. So in the literal sense, they have provided a huge climate improvement in the executive. The same applies to equipment with which officials are satisfied, equipment and weapons. With regard to arms, I would like to say a small thing. It seems that the weapons are still supplied with plastic halves, about which the executive officers complain, because if they need the weapon, they cannot pull it because it does not go out of the middle. Therefore, they buy better leather halves at their own expense. It would be a small thing to fix that. Federal Minister! As a former mayor, you have the necessary sensitivity and antenna for the needs of those for whom you are responsible. I think it is pleasant if we feel that the Federal Minister has the ear with the people and is acting reasonablely and realistically with those for whom he is responsible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, Mr. Federal Minister, roses are also known to have thorns. It's not all gold that shines, and not all of it. There are a number of criticism points and suggestions for improvement – that is logical, because absolute satisfaction cannot exist. I've been looking at the service plan that's right from the number. But statistics are also very patient. If I say he's right statistically, you also have to go into the depths. It will be noted that some authorities, especially central authorities, are being upgraded a little more and there, where it would be much more necessary, namely in rural areas, are being saved. I address the systematisation. Especially in Upper Austria, there are a number of executive officials not enough, and I am asking you to fix this manko accordingly. Today, the association law that you supposedly want to change has been cited. [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] I trust your statements, Mr Federal Minister, and hope that what you have assured us here will come true. But only the discussion which is to take place here in Parliament is of course entitled to be attentive, according to the motto: Be the beginnings! or, as the Berliners say: Nightingale, I hear you treading! Or the Upper Austrians: The devil is not asleep! We should be careful that the associations do not come to the fore because of this discussion. I understand that, Minister of State, trade unions are also associations. Perhaps even one or another, when he read the founding paper of the FGÖ, thought that he wanted to put one bar in front of him. It is a dangerous threat when I read here what Mr Gaugg writes to the entrepreneurs – please listen and let yourself be broken in the ear and on the tongue –: "The FGÖ represents all 'working people', so of course you and your interests, for which we – also in Parliament – always have great understanding". And he also writes: "I would also be particularly grateful in the name of many workers if you could also provide us with financial support by means of a cover copy. We want not only to remain politically, but also financially independent (...). Perhaps you too are something worth an independent representation of interest." Federal Minister! I would even understand that if the occasion were to be a more stringent control of the association law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But because of such stupidities that are sent out and with which the entrepreneurs and the people are really to be sold for stupid, one should not put such an important law to the discussion. I come to the conclusion. Federal Minister! It's been addressed by the Weapons Act. There are a number of changes. My time is not allowed to go into it in detail. I may give you a brief record of the talks I have had with interested people or with experts. There have been reasonable proposals, including the abolition of the monopoly of the Transport Safety Board. There are also other institutions. Federal Minister! I can therefore ask you to correct the weaknesses in the implementation of the arms law, not to aggravate it, but to make the arms law acceptable and enforceable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15039	A further speech was made by Mr Kiermaier. Similarly, 5 minutes of voluntary limitation of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15060	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the internal budget chapter, I was very pleasantly surprised when Minister Schlögl told me that the full equipment of all the Gendarmerie and Police services can be expected by the end of 1998. Ladies and gentlemen! When I think back, in the seven years that I am in this house – always as a member of the Committee on the Interior – there has been a lot of things going on. I would therefore like to express my full respect to my Minister of the Interior, but also to his predecessor, the Federal Minister, a. D. Franz Lösnak, thank you very much for the important changes. It was really depressing when visiting Gendarmerieposten twice-occupied furniture, museum sanitary equipment and heating facilities and so on. Writing paper had to be clamped with blue paper and flawed with eraser rubber and tip-ex strips improved. That was a relic from the last century. I am glad that this has changed, because a good executive needs a good tool if he is to do a good job. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Mock.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make one sentence on the results of Schengen. They are excellent, and I think we will very soon be beneficiaries of these achievements. I would like to stress briefly and, finally, take up only one of my favorite topics, namely the municipal guards. In this respect I also received a very constructive information; it was together for the parish guards Easter, Pentecost and everything at once: The Federal Minister referred to them as an important and fully-fledged guard, which cannot be forgotten. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since it is not known to some, I would like to add that these municipal guards are fully trained federal politicians or gendarmen. I have my reservations about all private guards – I would like to say that in a specific way. In many of these private security bodies, I strongly emphasise my concerns. I would rather be cared for by an official security body than by any private guard. I would like to say this clearly and clearly here. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That’s what I’m saying!]] Federal Minister! I would like to thank you very much for this record of success that I have drawn here. However, I would also like to say a thank you to all the staff of the ministry who always – I have to come out very clearly – are friendly and helpful to us. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is a friendly business!]] Working in the Committee on the Interior is really a pleasure, and it is a pleasure to be active in this area. So I wish all concerned – the Federal Minister, the members of the Ministry, all the national army commanders, the district commanders and all the general army posts and police commissioners – good luck in their work. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15139	The honourable Member's friend has been reported to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15161	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since my previous speakers have already discussed the subject of the Ministry of the Interior in detail and have been able to hear positive opinions and thanks to my colleagues, I would also like to make a positive comment on your position, Mr Federal Minister, but I would like to add two topics that make me feel light. The first is the planned civil service cost replacement and the intention to demand these costs, including the so-called blue light facilities. There is already a government template to deal with at the next meeting. This is a cost compensation for the Red Cross and for the workers-Samariter-Bund. I note that although the rates for these institutions have been reduced, they still face a difficult financial situation. The fact that 12 million Schillings will be necessary in Upper Austria alone in order to make these costs is clearly at the expense of our communities, for this means that the extra burden on the individual parish citizen is added by the rescue shilling of about 5 s per person. . It is very difficult for me to give the government's proposal on this point the approval. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I would like to ask you today to ensure that, in the event that there are difficulties and bottlenecks, one can correct them, because the voluntary assistance services must not be put at risk. The association law has already been pointed out in detail, and I am pleased that my response to this problem at the Bugdet Committee meeting has led to Mr Leikam becoming a bit nervous. Maybe I just met you on the left foot. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was a chicken hog!]] However, I would also like to make a clear comment here again, because the Minister for the Interior stated at this meeting that there was very likely a working group set up by the then Minister for the Interior, Mr Löschnak, which has drawn up a concept which is also present. This work would have been completely in vain if it did not lead to a change of law. I believe that we have now reached by the People's Party, which we are to the clubs, that there is no change at all. But if there is a change, then we are doing so together, in such a way that the small associations too can speak and are clearly expressed on their concerns. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We don't need the bureaucracy and harassment of our associations, but we need to promote the associations and our club officials, because they are the most important link in our society. Especially those who always make themselves available as association officials must not be dismissed by us as "communities" but their achievements must be recognized. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I myself am a member of many associations, and the Minister of the Interior was, as I believe, certainly with many associations as mayor. We know what these people do for our society. [[Abg. Leikam: I've been an Obmann in a club for 35 years! You don't have to tell me!]] In Upper Austria we have even introduced a "year of volunteers", the volunteer. From this point of view, I would like to make the suggestion, even at the federal level, to introduce a year of volunteering, a year of voluntaryity or even a year of club life, in order to point to the importance of our associations and the volunteers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15237	Mr Zweytick is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The remaining time of your club is 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15258	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Improvements such as changed structures of our executives, such as trained staff, which can meet the new challenges through appropriate training, and above all the security academy and the IT equipment et cetera have long been required. These demands, which the Austrian People's Party has been making for many years, are taken into account by increasing the budget. There are over 800 million schilling more for staff, the general increase is 8 percent. With 1. In January 1998, a further 250 officials could join the border service. In addition, in the course of 1998, there were 250 more, plus the 66 officials in charge of the customs guard. They will all be active at our external border and thus ensure security at the external borders of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The first thing for safety is staff! Neither car nor device, but essentially the people on site! This staff also achieves optimal efficiency. I live only 300 metres away from this external border – my vineyards go to Slovenia – and I find that we can partially face the organized crime with civil officials and civil vehicles even more efficiently. This request is a concern to me. It would be very helpful to us to act more efficiently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As an example, I would like to cite the Gamlitz-Eckberg crossing. In the few months of his existence, 77 illegals and 15 additional tugs were picked up. That is the essential thing, because it is precisely against the inhumane tow beings that must be carried out restrictively. It was over 11,000 people throughout Germany who suffered suffering and damage from criminal organizations. A more efficient commitment to the protection of human rights should also be in the sense of the Greens. The Greens should actually welcome this fully. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't have that much time, but there's so much more to say! At the border crossings there are of course also reinforced and longer traffic jams due to the truck controls. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Hannes, the micro!]] The staff equipment is not so generous in this case, and in order to avoid congestion at the borders, it might be reasonable to carry out reinforced controls of the trucks with probes in the downstream area – about 15 kilometres behind the border – and to add to that where we know that many illegal groups that cannot be caught on the border will enter the trucks after about 10 kilometres and often continue to travel to Germany. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Hannes, you have to talk into the micro! Think of the stenographs!]] I believe that this could prevent traffic jams at borders, increase the efficiency of personnel and also increase the effectiveness of illegal immigration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say that the security report confirms that, in order to meet the Schengen criteria, our border - I quote - must develop into a serious obstacle to the illegal transfers of tow crime, drug trafficking and arms trafficking, the shift in cars and other cross-border offences. – This is what the Security Report says. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From this point on, however, I can also point out the good successes and thank you for the very good work of our border army, but also – not to mention – the customs guard at the border crossings. Finally, I would like to say that it is anything but the EIA's intention to introduce a new tax burden after a long-term work on security by means of a tax on arms. [[Abg. Leikam: Hannes, the light flashes!]] It is not in the sense of the population either. We'd rather...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15349	I call for the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15365	We want more education initiatives than new taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15403	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure. To this end, I ask the honourable Members to take up their place, and I also ask the staff to leave the courses between the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Advisory Group IV of the Federal Proposal for 1998. This includes Chapter 11 of the Federal Estimate, together with the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate in 841 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15444	I would also like to point out that at today's sitting there were questions 3302/J to 3308/J. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 13th. In November 1997, 9 a.m., with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (841 and 841 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for 1998, including investments (910 of the Supplements). For advice: Advisory Group X: Science and transport, Advisory Group VI: Education and cultural affairs, Advisory Group XII: Military Affairs. There is no Question Time at this part-session. The sitting is closed.
