ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e1611	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you to take the places. Even if the presence is still on the increase, I may have the 96. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. The official protocols of 94. Meeting of 6. ==References====External links== Meeting of 7. In November 1997, the Parliament's Directorate remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies. They are therefore considered approved. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. König, Ing. Maderthaner, Murauer, Dr. Schwimmer, Dr. Haider and Mag. Chief. Apologies for taking part in the debate of the Advisory Group I Chapter 06: The Court of Auditors is the President of the Court of Auditors, who is serving abroad, which has been made known in writing to the political groups of the National Council a few days ago. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e1651	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e1724	I would also like to say that the tenth report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (841 and 841 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for 1998, including investments (910 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e1749	Let's go into the agenda. The subject-matter is the Federal Finance Act for the year 1998, together with investments. Does the rapporteur-general wish to speak? - That's not the case. Before we come to the debate, I would like to warmly welcome the President of the European Parliament, Mr José Maria Gil-Robles, who is taking part in this meeting from the speech. [[General condolences.]] High house! We will lead the debate, in accordance with our practice, in such a way that general budgetary policy issues related to the Advisory Group II can be discussed. The planned breakdown of the debate and the vote within the meaning of § 73 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure can be found in the written work plan issued. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. Then it's so approved. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e1793	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the discussions as follows: Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed for today's session, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group or the Secretary of State, which exceeds 20 minutes, will be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with these proposals to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously approved. Advisory Group I Chapter 01: Presidential Chancellery Chapter 02: Federal legislation Chapter 03: Constitutional Court Chapter 04: Administrative Court Chapter 05: Public Prosecutor's Office Chapter 06: Court of Auditors Advisory Group II Chapter 10: Federal Chancellery with services Chapter 13: Art (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 71: Bundestheater
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e1891	We are now entering the joint debate on the advisory groups I and II of the 1998 Federal Proposal. Does the Special Rapporteur wish to speak on this matter? - That's not the case. We are entering the discussion. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. The speaking time is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e1918	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! The Chapter on the Top Institutions gives us the opportunity to debate the budget in general, including the questions: What do you want to do with this budget? What is the budget supposed to bring to people? Are the savings measures introduced in connection with the double budget 1996/97 unique? Is it supposed to go up again after that? Should people be voted positively? Or will the budget rate of the savings or the load wave continue? We all know that the budget is the government programme of the Federal Government cast into figures. Only: This budget cannot be drawn from a government programme, but at best from declarations of intent; Declarations of intent in the form that Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima on 27 March. 1. in the framework of his Government Declaration, the main theme of the fight against unemployment was that he said: The fight against unemployment is undoubtedly the central question of the future. We know that there are no patent recipes for this. Despite best efforts, we cannot in any case prevent the loss of a farm or a job. What we can do, however, is to contribute, with a large number of coordinated measures, to the fact that lost jobs are being created and unemployment is reduced. – Federal Chancellor climate as part of his government statement. In the meantime, we know what facts we are confronted with: We are faced with the fact that, for the first time, we have top unemployment rates in the field of construction, tourism and so-called seasonal peaks. We are confronted with an unemployment rate of 219 383 for October. However, we are also faced with the fact that the percentage of unemployed over 50 years of age has already increased to 17.2%, from October 1996 to October 1997. And we also know quite well that the measures taken by the Federal Chancellor climate to give tens of thousands of job seekers a teaching place have failed. We are faced with this fact. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this situation, some sort of checkout is tried, in the form of early pensions, such as the OMV. There, 1 000 people are sent in early retirement, but on the other hand, the Executive Board will be enlarged so that political secretaries can be accommodated there. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is the scandal!]] I remember the post office where 8 000 people are selected, which is not a natural retirement leave. The current Federal Chancellor and then Minister of Finance has said in a television interview that the post will go alone with the natural outcome – he has said this to save himself from the elections, as his predecessor Vrannitzky has already tried by sending the so-called pensionist letter. Only: The facts look different! Let's remember what climate said in front of running cameras: In the next three years, 7,000 jobs will be reduced by the natural process. Of course, that's what it's all about. The Postlers are great people, good people, the Postlers are at my heart, which I don't like. – Mr Bundeskanzler! At the time, you deliberately kept these posters to shame, because you knew very well that in 1995 the post office was much less than 55-60 years old than you did in the television discussion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Former State Secretary Ditz, who together with the Minister of Finance removed the high profits from the phone fees so that budget holes could be stopped, has created a post with a debt mountain of 114 billion schilling, and now he simply lets out the poster: [[Abg. Haigermoser: John the Falses!]] Dear Postler, you must stop offering some sacrifices; that is with us. On the one hand, these posters are sent in early karenz and on the other hand, the Directorate-General has a different management. The Directorate-General has increased the number of departments from 21 to 47 over the last ten years, and an additional department has been set up in the last week. The workforce in the Directorate-General was increased by 50 percent. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is huge!]] What's a poster supposed to think? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] By this one sees how "believable" your policy is: The little ones let you hang, but for the big ones you create positions so that they are provided. Where is the five-point programme of the Federal Chancellor Klima zur Depolitierung? – I can mention the five points: 1. Point: Post-chacher at CA – Director-General a Red, Vice a Black. 2. Point: Post chess at the ÖBB – Stindl: ÖVP, Hoser: SPÖ. 3rd. Point: OeNB: Tumpel-Gugerell: SPÖ, Duchatczek: ÖVP. 4. Point: OeKB: Rudolf Scholten, Minister: SPÖ, breaths: ÖVP. 5. Point: P.S.K.: Kothbauer, former Vrnitzky Secretary: SPÖ, stop: ÖVP. This is your post policy! They're just trying to create jobs for your people or make sure. For the little ones you have no ear, you just want to see that you accommodate the great political officials! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also happening in the run-up to upcoming privatisations. They say: We need to see that we first house our people and then we can privatize them, because then there will be nothing more change in these management positions. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You did that in Carinthia!]] When our people sit there, they can be privatized – nothing will change at all! Let us return once again to the announcement of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Vrannitzky, namely that unemployment is his main topic. If I really want to fight unemployment, I must first question the causes of this unemployment. One of the reasons is that the state has greatly reduced public investment. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Do you think of Vranitzky or climate? You said, "Vranitzky!" Did you really mean him, or did you promise?]] Climate. Mr. Schieder, I promised. Thank you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He is also to blame, he has done the preliminary work! Chaos at Vrnitzky!]] He was, of course, the predecessor, and you are right, Mr Haigermoser! Although the government makes new debt every year, the share of public investment in gross domestic product has fallen from 5.4 percent to 3.1 percent in recent years. That means: In Austria, public investment is offset, leading to additional unemployment. This is also said by the IHS, Mr Christian Helmenstein: Austria needs to make more money available for public investment again because the private sector is unable to organize or collect these things itself. Think of Switzerland, which is a lot more blasphemous – because it's not in the EU –: In Switzerland, 5.4 percent of the gross domestic product has been made available for future investment in recent years. In Austria we are 3.1 percent. – These are the most recent load packs. The latest load packages have increased the tax rate to around 44 percent. A tax rate of 44 percent is well above the European average. And, of course, an increase in the tax rate leads to a fall in mass purchasing power and to an acceleration of the increase in the number of unemployed. I should like to remind you very briefly of the changes in taxes from 1995 to 1998: The income tax has increased from 30 billion to 41 billion, the wage tax from 150 billion to 188 billion, the turnover tax from 180 billion to 223 billion. Overall, gross income increased from 1995 to 1998 from 521 billion to 666 billion. After all, this is an increase of 30 percent. Another cause for unemployment in Austria is bureaucracy. Austria's companies are confronted with about 15 000 authorisation procedures per year: Plant authorisation, business authorisation and other authorisation procedures. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Being!]] In Germany there are 6 000, in the UK 3,000. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the former Economic Party! All of this is complicated, expensive and frustrating to young people in the intention to become entrepreneurship active. And that's what it's all about! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The procedures are 80 percent less! You have fallen asleep in the business regulations, Mr Trattner! 80 percent less!]] With us a process on average lasts 18 months, in Germany it takes an average of 7 months, and already in Germany one moans about it. This kind of bureaucracy also contributes more and more to the fact that businesses wish to settle abroad and have no interest in setting up a business location in Austria. Why, for example, does BMW go to England with a engine plant, although we have a good business location in Steyr? – Because of these regulations. Why does Siemens go with a new generation in the field of microelectronics to England and does not stay in Austria, although there are the same promotion offers as in England? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What does the bio-chemy in Tyrol do?]] – Because there is simply a lower regulatory density, the bureaucratic madness does not celebrate as cheerful originals as we do in Austria. Another cause for unemployment is the high level of EU contributions. In this respect, it has simply been misnegotiated. We pay too high EU contributions, which has now been confirmed by the Minister of Finance. Every schilling, which is not invested in Austria, but goes to the bureaucracy in Brussels, goes down to the Austrian economy or to job security. Let's look at the per capita number, let's see how much Austria pays and how many others pay: We are in the third place in this comparison. Germany pays 2 100 S per capita, the Dutch pay 1 500 S, and then Austria comes with 1 500 S. The French pay 339 S, the Italians 211 S – they have negotiated a special status at all – and these 211 S remain guilty of EU sanctions. That is why the demand of the liberals: These contributions are to be reduced, it is necessary to renegotiate these contributions, just as the English government chief Margaret Thatcher did at the time and as the Germans intend. Germany is no longer ready to pay such high EU contributions to the bureaucracy in Brussels. The Austrian Federal Government is also invited to do this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's called: After EU accession, there is more employment. The employment balance since EU accession is alarming. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since EU accession, some 165,000 jobs have been lost in Austria, according to the report in the 'Salzburger Nachrichten'. Professor Breuss said: Only 100 jobs can be created per 1 000 lost jobs, or can only be compensated for by 100 jobs. The policy you pursue by not taking into account the economic location, the labour market situation has led to the following situation – this is found in today's "Kurier" headline: A million Austrians are threatened by poverty! – 1 144 000 Austrians, according to OECD definition, are already living below the poverty line. This is the result of your government policy, your load wave in 1996/97 in a scale of well over 100 billion due to tax increases. And now, for 1998, you deliver a package in the order of far over 25 billion schilling once again. You made promises back then. They have said that these measures, namely those of the 1996/97 budgets, are one-time measures and will no longer be necessary in 1998. Now, however, the clearance decisions are still being sisified. The 5% supplement on income and corporation tax must continue to be paid. There is a 50 percent increase in fees. Tax credits are recorded as revenue. The allocation of ASFINAG brings another 9 billion. And that is why this budget deficit, which is stated on the paper with 67 billion shillings, can be estimated with a real scale of well over 110 billion shillings. These are the facts! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One has to go the way here – instead of spending new tax packages – to finally reduce taxes. We want the liberals to go the opposite way, because of the fact that 165,000 jobs have been lost since EU accession, that every 1 000 jobs lost can only be compensated for 100 jobs and that you have also very miscredited the reputation of Austria's economic location. I would just like to give you two examples. First: Entrepreneurs' confidence in Austria's economic location is very low, because they cannot estimate when the government or the legislator will again intervene in existing contracts, such as the loss talks, also because of the fact that legislation is, in any case, partially or completely repealed by the Constitutional Court. I am thinking here only of the minimum corporation tax or of the contract regulations. Instead of constantly presenting tax packages to the public, a government policy must finally take place, which puts a tax policy in the area that can encourage people again. We are primarily thinking here of the tax exemption of the unabsorbed profit. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This idea could cause businesses to leave the money they earn in the enterprises to form equity and to use it later on for investment. In this way, 50 000 jobs can be created in the small and medium-sized economy within four to five years. I do not understand the Members of the People's Party at all when their financial officer from Upper Austria writes to Mr Bundeskanzler a letter with the following wording: Dear Viktor! This idea of exempting the unabsorbed profits would be a bomb idea that would create thousands of jobs. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Who wrote this?]] That means: The Austrian People's Party makes advertising for free-lance ideas. Turn it over! Many are convinced that these measures are correct. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you only write confession letters and say something else at your events, which is diametrically opposed to your behaviour here in the House, where you simply reject the requests of the liberals to eliminate the unabsorbed profit. Another important measure is the reduction of wage tax. Wage tax reduction is not only an important measure because there has been no compensation for cold progression for eight years, but also because it will be necessary in a more flexible, globalised economy to make working hours more flexible. The flexibility of working hours or the labour market is, of course, at the expense of mass incomes. Here too, the State must make its contribution to countering this problem. I'm just thinking about the last round of metalworking wages. There has been a flexibilization of working time. They said, "No, no, no, no, All right, we'll split the working time. We work longer, we work Saturday and Sunday, with no wage compensation. That makes us more competitive. – But then the state must be prepared to reduce the income losses of mass income so that, despite lower incomes, people have money to increase mass purchasing power, so that the most important pillar of economic activity, namely domestic demand – and this is really the most important pillar – is strengthened and maintained. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you only speculate that a pillar of economic activity can be the only export economy, then I must say that you have already caught up with reality. A few weeks ago, when the dollar price rose, you cheered and said: Our growth is the export economy. Now the dollar's going down. What's now? – Now the whole thing has become deceptive again. That is to say, we must not only hold back expectations of growth effects if they are only in export, but we must work towards maintaining domestic demand as an important economic pillar of the Austrian economy. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Now you need to change therup brochure!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are still convinced that, you can speak later, Mr Novotny, a tax reform can be financed from the reserves of the central bank. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's a very simple question!]] Yeah, well, that can't be a problem. The Minister of Finance is now planning a special profit distribution of the central bank in the order of 3.1 billion schilling. That's all right. The difference with the policy of the liberals, however, is that the liberals with higher profit distributions of the central bank or the dissolution of the silent reserves want to undergo a tax reform for the benefit of the Austrian population and not to stop budget holes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We also demand that part of the proceeds of privatisation be used for research and for the conversion of our vocational schools to modern vocational schools. We want to eliminate the compensation of apprentices from the municipal tax, and we want to deregulation of the entire authorisation procedure, which is so discouraging for young entrepreneurs in Austria. It is especially expensive and keeps many from becoming self-employed. Let's look at the comparisons. In Austria there are 240 000 entrepreneurs, in much smaller Switzerland 440 000. These are the facts. We also want a shift in the introduction of the euro. The EU itself has broken the euro with its principles. The EU has claimed that the euro will not come until there is a single European market. The European Single Market should have been completed since 1992. That hasn't succeeded until today. There is neither tax harmonisation nor labour or social harmonisation. After seeing that all this is no longer going on, it has been decided to cut the horse from behind and simply introduce the euro. The whole thing's going to work somehow.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2171	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2192	We have got a first taste through the increase in interest rates, which is not inflation-related. [[Call the SPÖ:Final!]] The increase in interest rates was carried out only in order to balance and harmonise the interest rates of the weak currency and hard currency countries. We cannot go along with such a policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2221	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2236	It is therefore really sad that an opposition party must call on a government to enforce basic constitutional principles, namely to ask the people whether they agree with the changed framework conditions for the introduction of the euro. [[Abg. Leikam: the final sentence!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2275	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. The voluntary speaking time was set at 10 minutes. Is that right? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Yes, Mr President!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2308	Mr President. High government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has given another speech to the chapter on the Supreme Institutions, as is actually the custom at first reading. This is, of course, permitted. It's not up to me to forbid or prohibit him. It's only interesting why he's doing that. A chapter in which a lot has always been brought in to the individual areas in the past gives a further speech from the general debate. The reason can only be that you yourself have recognized that what you brought on arguments in the first reading – that is, in the general debate – was so little convincing that you would like to take the chance of a second renunciation, to a second attempt. [[Abg. Böhacker: It was right!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The truth cannot be said often enough!]] That didn't work again the second time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr President, I should like to thank It is true, however, that there is a point I should like to thank for. I want to do the same. You have spoken so unlovingly against the euro that this is actually a change of attitude in your group; and if that is the case, we are all very pleased. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What would you like to look like?]] In the chapter Upper Organs, it is not appropriate to talk about lust.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2392	Mr. Schieder! Which chapter would you like to use?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2414	Mr President. If you allow me, I'd like to come back to it with four eyes. [[General hustle and bustle.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At any rate, the Chapter Top Institutions will still discuss various areas of the work of the Federal Chancellery and the People's Procuratorate – areas such as those of women et cetera. A motion for a resolution will be tabled which is an important contribution to the fight against racism in Austria. I would like to deal with our own work in Parliament, and would like to point out that it would be appropriate in this debate to look at what these Rules of Procedure, which were a little more than a year ago - i.e. on 15 May. Last September – it was decided, really brought to our work, how its impact is on whether the objectives have been achieved. Of course, opposition and government parties will never entirely agree on such issues, but it is interesting to see whether the objectives – that is, more manageable work in Parliament without limiting the rights of the minority – have been achieved this year. We have held very many meetings in the current and last year, 47 in the number. These are, without having to decide on a budget, as many meetings as they did in the year before. Five meetings were convened at the request of minorities. This is a very important... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr Col. Schieder! This is a report like the fire brigade: how many miles of hose they have designed and how many hours of pumping there has been!]] No, you had the right before! But it is unique in a European Parliament that once a year a small group has the opportunity to demand a special session. Both the Liberals and the Greens have made use of this right. The duration of the meetings has gladly declined. If we still had the longest session in the 1995/96 part-session – as you can remember – which took 47 hours and 44 minutes at the time, the longest session took a little more than 18 hours in the past year. The meetings have thus become more manageable and shorter. I looked at the statistics for our club: However, compared with the previous years, more Members were able to speak in this Parliament year than in the previous year. The aim of this debate is to involve as many Members as possible in the debate as possible, to make the work more manageable and yet to do much – 152 federal laws, 33 of them unanimously, have been adopted; also state agreements et cetera. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now it's going on again! It's under your dignity! Statistical Central Office!]] I'll give you the right. The question for the opposition is not: What has been done statistically by laws, or how many hours has been advised? I also know that all the theories about the functioning of the modern Parliament assume that the point – the central parliamentary question – is the following: What are the opportunities in the competition between the government group and the opposition group? [[Abg. Haigermoser: How does the spontaneity look?]] If we look at this, we see that there has already been a significant improvement. Both in the field of thematicisation and in the presentation, equal opportunities existed for the two main actors, namely representatives of the government groups and opposition groups. The ratio was about 50 to 50, although the standing was about two thirds to one third. In this Parliament, therefore, there has been more opportunities for opposition, a level playing field and a new opportunity for small groups. I mean, this is an essential step that we should clearly mention here. But there have also been improvements in the House itself. I would like to mention the Internet here. The EU templates are stored and are essential to all of us. I would also like to thank the computer department of the Parliamentary Directorate and the President for the fact that a link has been established for the delegation of the Council of Europe so that contacts can be made during the meetings and that we can also get into the network. The last year thus brought better working methods and more rights for the opposition. I mean, this has been an important step in the right direction. This should also be recognised by the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2493	The next item is Mrs Dr Schmidt's speech. The speaking time is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2514	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! We always take care of this budget debate as a general debate. In any case, I would like to make a few basic comments. When I considered this, I liked an issue of the "standard" with a comment from Robert Menasse with the title: Why is Viktor Klima regarded as a creator? . I believe that this question will be corrected even if Robert Menasse is more about the alleged art chancellor climate in this context. I do think that this question can also be considered in the Federal Chancellor's climate. It is only logical that this question should be raised in the light of a budget, because it is a sense of ambiguity that a budget should actually be the government's programme of action cast into figures. On the basis of this critical article by Robert Menasse, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, as can be seen from the magazine "NEWS", intended to write Mr Menasse in the first anger and to point out whether he actually knows that, for example, the "standard" in which this comment was published, exists only because a certain German Chancellor climate is responsible for the fact that press promotion is still boisterous compared to other European countries. – This is a statement that he apparently did not dress in written words for tactical reasons, but it is a significant reaction to criticism. The fact that the Federal Chancellor did not write it may be attributed to his ability to learn, the ability of the Social Democrats to learn. I only recall that in Vienna there were still posters of the Vienna Social Democrats who asked not to ask any stupid questions. The fact that the action followed with this call at the time may have led, as has been said, to the fact that this reaction is not now directly pronounced. But regardless of what – one should only recall here again, how such reactions look and which disciplining instruments are obviously taken into consideration – is the question of whether the Federal Chancellor is a maker, so that it is not answered at all. Because "makers" should understand that someone not only knows what he wants – that is, has a concept – goals that he articulates them, but above all that he makes the decisions afterwards. Here's another comment. Not that I want to quote all the newspapers now, that would be too much of a good thing. I just think it is quite legitimate to call on witnesses who do not belong to a political party or at least not to an opposition party. That is why it is permissible to recall an article – after that so-called reform that has gone over the stage – namely the article by Anton Peliga with the title: "The fear of ruling." – Is this the qualification or quality of a maker if there are people – political scientists, but also others – who qualify the process of the Federal Chancellor as the "anger before governing"? - I don't think so. In addition, I have reminded myself that, at least at that time, Chancellor Vranitzky, I say, threatened Parliament if nothing went on. You may remember: When negotiations with the social partners were under way at the time, Chancellor Vranitzky, whose parliamentary understanding is perhaps still many, said that if nothing goes on, he would just turn to Parliament. It was significant that he meant this as a threat, but at least he had this variant in his field of vision. The current Federal Chancellor doesn't even have that again! He – but not alone, but the entire government – believes that decisions should be taken outside this Parliament. This House should do more than just what is necessary to make the Constitution sufficient, namely to make the formal majority available. When the negotiations in connection with the pension reform have already gone a long way, we have offered you our support so that, if you send the result to Parliament, you do not have to "fear" – under the quotations – that some Member of Parliament – or colleague Nuremberger, for example, or colleague of the ÖVP, but also some MEPs of the ÖVP – adds more weight to the interests than his free mandate and his responsibility as a people's representative. You need to know that liberals have not been easy for us as opposition parties. In order not to be afraid of perhaps having to suffer a defeat with your presentation, we have, although we believe that this reform, even at the time of events, does not go far enough, but at least considers it an approach, said that we are willing to help you in this approach to the jumps or to strengthen your back. We were willing to carry this smoothing position so that something could go on. – That was not at all so undisputed among us, as some have asked why we should support such a thing. Nevertheless, we have decided to do so in the sense of our political understanding, because it should go a little further. However, this has not been a priority for you! But this does not mean that Parliament has any importance for you either! I am saying this again and again because we are rightly accusing the liberals of making it clear that Parliament has no place for them. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a stand by Dr. Schmidt! Bad arguments!]] But we can only say that if we attach a value to Parliament ourselves, for otherwise such a accusation is not... [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a stand!]] This is not a stand, but something to keep in mind. But, of course, the credibility of such an accusation depends on how much those who articulate this accusation take Parliament seriously. You didn't take it seriously! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] We now have a pension reform, which is positive – and I do not want to say that, to underline and respect it and to recognise it as a very important step – that there will finally also be a conversion period for civil servants' pensions. That was and is important! I admit it. But it's a little too little, especially because you had a different option. I wouldn't say anything if, despite the exhaustion of all variants, they wouldn't have been inside at the moment. We could all regret this and say: Let's take a next step! But it would be if You would have taken Parliament seriously, probably more inside. You could, at least as far as the date of entry into force and thus, I say to the EIA, which is always so important to it, have achieved greater responsibility towards your children and young people if you turned to Parliament on this point and not just left your stakeholders to say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] You would have been able to achieve more if you had already been involved in a government programme, namely to change the life-income curve, to take action, or to try to end the curiosum of the biennial jumps – of course only gradually, I agree – to take at least one first step to that. We have already taken an essential step in political relations, and we Liberals have participated because this signal and model effect was important to us. We now have a uniform reference schedule for politicians. Taking at least one first step with this hanger would have been a chance. They missed her! I am no longer referring to the fact that you have not developed any models for alternatives at all, in order to make it easier for people by defining a goal, to accept the departure of pleasant and well-confident habits and indeed privileges. Because in order to achieve your project, of course, one needs acceptance. But you will only get this acceptance if you put all of this in a different context and first of all define the goal clearly and then finally get away from doing everything only at the point of view of the spasm, but also finally articulate the social dimension behind it. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] They should look at the fact that this society cannot continue to be divided into two classes – one of which works in a protected area, while the other in the free market must rise around jobs. You should have brought this social dimension into your negotiations, because you would certainly have made it easier to move forward. But what did you do? – You have used the pension reform to include also those groups of persons in a compulsory insurance scheme that meets the most, namely those who create culture. I also mention this because today the chapter "Bundeskanzleramt" is on the debate, because it is also about the interests of the cultural creators and therefore – I stress this twice – also about the interests of this society. It is not a question of doing something good to any professional group, but of recognizing the benefits of the creative potential of a society, that is, this professional group, and how important it is to provide a basis for cultural creators, not only to allow them to survive, as you still want to allow, but to promote their creativity, by giving them opportunities, not as a policy of interest, but as an actual policy of society, because it is recognized that art and culture are a factor for this society and that is why they should be promoted. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] What did you do? – At the time, they have not only pushed the cultural creators into a corner in connection with the inconsistency of the work contract, but at the time they have just left open a time when this insurance obligation is supposed to fall down on the cultural workers like a damocles sword. You've had a year and a half. Mr. Feurstein! You nod now! I have remembered the press release of Mr Morak – I do not see him – in which he celebrated the fact that the date of entry into force has now been postponed by one year as a success and triumph of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: No!]] I really think that's an insult! Do you think we don't know what happened? Faith Do you really think that the creatives themselves and the parliamentarians in this House have not seen you sleep for a year and a half the same as your coalition partner and have not touched a finger to create a replacement for the cultural creators, for example, a model for the cultural creators – "Künstlerversicherung" we call it now? - Nothing you've done! They have watched when the Social Committee announced that, with 1.1.1998, also those who create culture, entirely independent of whether they already have their own insurance or not, whether they have to pay either two insurances – something that nobody can make in this area – or whether they have to give up the first and thus they have lost everything they have done in their own responsibilities, which you now punish, are included in compulsory insurance. You've been watching it. It is only the organized call of the cultural creators on the one hand and the opposition parties, in this case the Liberals and the Greens, on the other, that the introduction has now been postponed and a working group has been set up. Don't pretend that's your success! The parties themselves, supported by parts of the opposition, have organized themselves! This has led you to do something, so we now see a chance on the horizon. Whether something will really come out is another big question! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Is that the chancellor? Has the "macher chancellor" touched some fingers toward health reform, a problem that constantly affects us, again and again not only for reasons of infinancing, but also because of social policy considerations? If the Maker has climate, has this federal government, have these two coalition partners even touched one finger in the direction of administrative reform? The ÖVP holds an association called "The Battle of the Flood of Law"! This is poured out again and again, as in a sauna, where you make a pour and enjoy it, after that everything is over again. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Very healthy, sauna!]] Even in the Committee on Budgets, it has been discussed that we should make a statement to the flood of law. Mrs. Frieser! They were no longer present in the Committee on Budgets when Mr Wurmitzer's old-fashioned reflection was used. On the basis of a report from the Public Prosecutor's Office, he found that more complaints were being made in a particular area, namely that of neighborhood disputes. He has literally said that the lawyers should say what rules they expect from Parliament in order to reduce the number of complaints. That is also in your ranks of reflection on this problem. You should first do persuasion work in your own ranks, then perhaps you can go beyond that in an association. I'm just saying this so that if you talk to Mr Wurmitzer next time, you have a different starting point. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Frieser and Dr. Lukesch.]] In my opinion, however, it is not only about the number of laws – although, I give you the right, which is also an aspect – but also about their quality! I mean not only sloppyness and inconsistencies, but the regulatory intensity of the laws. I note the following: Although the term "slender state" has been in all mouths for years now – not only with the ÖVP, but even with the SPÖ, with the Liberals anyway and with all other parties, that is not at all a unique feature at all – the question is, however, which content is given to this term. It is interesting now that the demand for a "slender state" when it comes to the cost factor is at least formally the most on its side. But when it comes to the concept of "slender state" in the sense of a foresight, the spirits separate. This is very interesting, because that is also part of the concept of social policy. In my opinion, politics is not just trying to make sure that everything can be paid – for example, as you clearly see your family policy primarily from the cost factor – but it is about attitudes and values, and that is what I am saying – Mr Khol, who always advises that – which social policy concept stands behind it. [[Abg. May. Frieser: That's not true!]] Therefore, the issue of "slender state" must be considered, what the state must regulate, what it is allowed to regulate at all, and, if it regulates something where the maximum free space is for the individual. That should be the criteria laid down in laws! The opposite is the case with the government parties, as I see it. When it comes to your power interests, the "slender state" does not at all interest you – the key to compulsory membership – then you believe you need to regulate security before the skin swims away from it. When it comes to not trusting in the individual and believing that he has to be congratulated, the SPÖ is immediately at hand, which says that you have to take care of this! If a particular social image, i.e. specific forms of life or behaviour, is to be developed, this does not allow the ÖVP. It does not leave that to the free will of the individual. No, no, no, It calls not according to the "slender state", but according to rules that belong precisely to, and be it in the criminal law. We will come back to it in the afternoon in the chapter "Justice" – the word "Sexual Penalty Law" where it is concerned... [[Abg. Grandruck: You want to handle that! You want a discourse...! You want the homosexuals.]] Yeah, right! I am pleased to enter into a discourse with you, because it makes clear what kind of social policy concept you represent. They are your rules of morality, not self-determination and not sexual self-determination at all. We'll come back to it on other things. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] But the actual background of the concept of "slender state" would be to allow more self-determination everywhere, not only where it suits you! That would be an essential point of departure. I think it's about three things. Firstly, we need a rethinking in economic policy, namely deregulation and debureaucratisation! This starts with flexibilization and stops with privatisation. But this also includes a new service and pension right. This made the bridge the second important concept for me, namely "new solidarity". I said earlier that I think it is unolidarian to see that this society divides into two classes – those that have to fight, and those that are in the protected area, such as in the public administration, under a glass crash. We need public administration. The question is only how do we shape them so well that they are also fair to those who are not only able to perform but also capable of doing so. In the context of this new solidarity, we also need a generation balance, but not in the sense of playing young against old, but in the sense of fairness from one to the other. That is one of the reasons why we have developed the model of basic security, which I believe will meet this concept of new solidarity. Above all, however, it is necessary – by the way, the new solidarity also belongs to the enlargement of the EU, which I also want to say – that not egoism, but solidarity is the headline. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We need further ways into an open society. There there must be self-determined people, people who are able to determine themselves. This means a tolerant but also a more democratic society. One democratic society is the verifiability of decisions – the word Constitutional Court. It is, therefore, a clear yes to a different opinion, to this opinion, because it is a fundamental principle of democracy that I can understand and review something. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] On the other hand, this also means that this Parliament is being taken seriously in its control rights. This is why a clear yes to minority law to call for the setting up of committees of inquiry and for decisions to be taken again in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2718	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. The voluntary speaking time is set at 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e2739	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The preparation and discussion of this 1998 budget were in principle different from all the other budgets we have decided in recent years. The main difference is that, although the opposition again criticises the budget today, the experts have made very positive comments on this budget. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Call me horse and rider! For example, who?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I call you Professor Schneider, nominated by Mrs Schmidt, University Professor Dr. Friedrich Schneider of the Institute of Economics at the University of Linz. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Mr. Feurstein! That's not true! You should just tell the truth!]] Here's what it says: Expert of the Liberal Forum. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Not the woman Schmidt nominated him if you allow me! Thank you!]] Then you nominated him. Yes, I do! Thank you. Mr. Hazelsteiner! You nominated him. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: No! The club nominated him!]] Then he was nominated by the Liberal Forum club. Even better! Ladies and gentlemen! In any event, Professor Schneider - and I would like to say this to Mr Haigermoser - has found that the achievement of the Maastricht objective by the Austrian Federal Government with this 1998 budget is a great success. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I hear! Call me horse and rider!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He also said that the Austrian path was to be welcomed in principle. I could also quote the experts of the Green Club, the Free Club and all the other experts who have given a similar positive opinion to the 1998 budget. I would also like to point out that the statements made by Mr Trattner simply contradict the facts. At the beginning of this year, the Federal Government began to secure jobs and improve the labour market situation. It is true that jobs are constantly being lost. But from September 1996 to September 1997, 10 500 jobs were created net. Ten thousand people have got an additional job in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! Not of about say the expert of the Greens, Dr. Pichelmann: As far as Austrian labour market policy is concerned, it does well in international comparison. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we compare unemployment rates from the EU sector, the following can be seen: Austria currently has an adjusted unemployment rate of 4.5 percent, the European Union average of 10.6 percent. We are 4.5 percent, of course, too much. We are trying to create additional jobs for young people in particular and to offer them. The apprenticeship initiative was successful. That's undisputed. We have been able to accommodate many apprentices, thanks to the economy and thanks to the companies that have shown understanding for young people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One of the key points of this budget is undoubtedly the reduction in the budget deficit. In 1998, the deficit was around 67 billion schilling, whereas in 1995 it was still 115 billion schilling. This is a huge reduction in the budget deficit. The second key is debureaucratisation and thus the reduction of the entire bureaucracy. This has the effect of reducing planning sites by real savings in the individual ministries, ladies and gentlemen. The establishment plan shows by 4 600 posts in 1998 less than in 1997. This is a clear degradation. I have determined how high the corresponding number was in the Federal Service Plan in 1938. You know she was pretty much the same size. There were 202,000 posts in 1938. Today, there are 222,000 posts – despite the increase in the population and despite the changes in all areas, ladies and gentlemen. A further cornerstone of the budget and our budget consolidation is: We want to make clear savings through structural measures. There are, however, – you can read this, Mr Haigermoser, it is clearly to be read in the documents – two areas of which we say there must not be saved, those are the areas of security and education. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I fear you will believe that!]] We must not be too expensive for young people – if you can say so. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Headmaster.]] The training of young people needs the necessary financial resources, and the security of our fellow human beings needs a corresponding initiative. There have been very clear accents. Ladies and gentlemen! A state – like any community – needs good employees. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about safety? We haven't heard anything!]] What has been said to the employees in the Federal Offices in recent weeks and months from various sides – in particular from the liberal side – is dangerous and is fundamentally rejected by me. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Headmaster.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What?]] These negative propaganda against federal officials, who repeatedly come from your party officer, ladies and gentlemen, can and must not accept these negative critical remarks. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] I would like to expressly make a clear commitment to the employees who are truly doing great things. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] We need them and we also need to motivate them. We can only motivate them if we recognize their performance. On the other hand, what has been done here – including some of the members of the government bank – has certainly not been motivating and has not encouraged development in this area, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Blünegger: This is nothing but a lip confession!]] Yes, I do! That is why we have tried to reach agreement with the staff, and the measures we decided on last week have not simply gone beyond them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On this point, we are fundamentally different. [[Abg. Scheibner: ÖAAB sees this differently!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I also find it important to make a clear commitment to the highest institutions in our state, to our supreme courts, the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court, as well as to the People's Procuratorate and the Court of Auditors. Some speakers of my group will make even more clear comments on this. In my opinion, what the top organs are presenting as Mahner – sometimes with critical remarks – deserves our attention and should be taken seriously by us. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, I would like to focus briefly on the statement of the Constitutional Court for Family Promotion. Federal Chancellor! It is not enough if you have stated here in the House that the statement of the Constitutional Court for Family Promotion is, of course, respected by the Federal Government. This is not enough for me if you, on the other hand, find out about journalists: "I do not want to be tempted to criticize this decision of the Constitutional Court." – In these words, you have already criticized the Constitutional Court’s decision. This has never been done by a Federal Chancellor of our state, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They had to take note today that you had been corrected by the Supreme Judges in your statements that your statements had to be corrected. President Adamovich, on the one hand, called for minority opinions to be allowed, took a negative view and found that the constitutional judges did not want to do so. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Just as Parliament does not want an investigation committee!]] But he said something: Adamovich also stressed... [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Are we there for the constitutional judges, or is it the other way round?]] I'm just saying, We should respect the opinion of the Constitutional Courts, Mrs. Schmidt! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: I am not concerned with opinions, but with the rules of the game!]] However, Adamovich also stressed that the knowledge was not taken by seven votes to six, as the Federal Chancellor said and claimed. I wonder, How does the Federal Chancellor come to put a claim in the room that is wrong, which he could not verify and which had to be criticized and corrected by the President of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Measure with a scale!]] We should – I say that very consciously once again, even if you call me in, Mrs Schmidt! – take our supreme bodies, our courts, the public prosecutors and the Court of Auditors more seriously than we do at times and as well as you, ladies and gentlemen, who have now done in this particular case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] I come to the conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen! The liberal expert – and not for example a member of the ÖDP – in the Committee on Budgets said: The decline in net debt is a significant success of stability and a high performance of this federal government, but the debt could now be reduced from 5 percent in the mid-1990s to 3 percent – a remarkable act of strength and stabilisation success, an acknowledged performance. [[Abg. Auer: Nothing to add to it!]] That is not what we are saying, that does not say a representative of the ÖVP, but that says an independent expert who has been invited to assess our budget, which we now have to discuss and decide on Friday. If this is so said by all the experts, we can also give this budget our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3057	The next item is Mrs Dr Petrovic's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3078	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Two comments to my previous speaker in advance. [[Members Koppler and Dr. Haselsteiner speak in the direction of Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] [[Abg. Koppler: I would have liked to clap with you!]] On the one hand, the green budget speaker Van der Bellen has often told you and strongly said that in the budgetary deliberations, experts were present and invited, who, in a totally unreasonable way, assigned you to party-politically and which you obviously seek to make a differentiated debate also of opposition speakers, namely those who admit that not everything is black and white, but that there are some positive aspects, but also a lot of criticism, increasingly impossible. They thus promote an opposition style that works according to the motto "Grobe Klötze auf grobe Keile". Whether to play a sound file. You and this House can have an interest in it, I doubt in every form. Secondly, the High Song of the Constitution. I shall come back to it again at the end of my remarks. Now I would like to remind the ÖVP of how the Constitutional Court spoke of sayings and judicates in the past, when it came, for example, to the incitement of the owners of taxi concessions, and how the constitutional changes were dealt with at the time. I do not think that any statement by the Constitutional Court can spare us a political debate in this House. We have this debate to hold, and nothing is useful to polemic undertones. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] The budget: the government policy cast in figures – a widespread word. If you look at this numbering, I am not saying that it certainly contains elements that we have a positive opinion from the Greens. If, from our point of view, a certain appreciation in the field of school and education is finally recognised in the present number work – but still too sparse, as a matter of fact, in our view – we think it is in principle right – with all the criticism in detail. However, I would now like to try to put this budget and the verbal statements on this budget in a wider context. The budget should not be self-evident, nor should it be an instrument of satisfying the interests of the political parties, but should the budget show that the concerns of the population are being taken seriously. If I speak of the concerns of the population, you might object that the political parties are also representatives of certain groups of voters and represent interests. However, if we look at the internal policy landscape sensitively, I believe that, in particular if the relevant groups of the population feel that they are being heard too little, or if the parties who are in favour of these interests are too little pervaded with the concerns in Parliament, they should actually be the measure of unfulfilled concern. In my opinion, if you use this degree knife, there are some concerns which have been very clearly articulated, but which I wonder where they can be found in the present numbering. I am thinking in particular of popular desires – very successful popular desires! – on the rights of women, environmental protection and genetic engineering and animal welfare. However, in the case of unfulfilled and unheard-of citizens, I am also thinking of the findings of the Public Prosecutor's Office, from whose reports we can see very clearly, where there is a accumulation of complaints and where there is apparently something wrong in the area of law and in the field of execution. And finally, I am thinking of the great protests and demonstrations that have occurred in recent times. If I value these areas – popular desires, reports of the public prosecutor's office and demonstrations – as a measure of dissatisfaction and unfulfilled concerns, I note that these concerns are also not weighty in this budget. I would like to start with the social groups who feel that their concerns are no longer properly and adequately appreciated. There were large protests of students; nevertheless, even if the budget in this field does not fall, the number of students has increased absolutely and relatively much, much more than the resources available to universities. I am thinking of the attacks and the het against cultural creators, the surrender of these rights and even the defamation of government members. Tag "Stickery of the City Arms". This was a conscious evasion of a work of art – for that is it – instead of a critical discussion with state symbols, which I think would be very important. It is not a party taking place for the cultural creators, but, as a whole, it is still largely a defence fight in this area. What about prizes and scholarships? What about the social position of artists and cultural creators in the cultural state, in the cultural nation of Austria? But what is the main concern of the large group, the majority of the population, about women? – My previous speaker said that Austria was praised in terms of relatively low unemployment in the international comparison. I claim, without being able to quantify it precisely, that unemployment in Austria does not differ from the international average: on the one hand, due to the different real retirement age, which is low in international comparison, and on the other hand, due to the extremely low participation of women in the international comparison, especially in comparison with Scandinavia, but also with other European countries. This is not the case because the women did not want it, but because they cannot. We know from the labour market administration that tens of thousands of women – documented for at least 50 000 – cannot take part in working life, although they want to do so and have a right to it because the appropriate childcare facilities and the corresponding transport links of public transport are not available. I ask you: Where are the women's concerns? Where is there what women have called for in popular desire: a link between economic promotions and compliance with all the rules on equality? - Nothing of all! What about the women's rights in the pension? – The average female pension is only half of the average male pension! This is such an injustice, and I ask myself: Where is this numbering work taking into account the legitimate concern of women who need to work more, who are subject to double and triple burdens? For example, with a longer calculation, which is likely to have a major impact on women, especially women with care responsibilities? Where's that in her numbering work? – These concerns of women’s popular desire have been forgotten and betrayed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Or: the large area of environmental measures, as it was exemplified in the genetic engineering people's desire. These are very important demands: no patent for life, technology impact assessment. I ask you: Where's all this? Where can I find this in the explanations on the budget? Is this the goal of your government policy, which has been put into figures here? Or is it not at European level, in particular the European Conservatives, that we are doing quite differently? Nor does this concern appear in the numbers and in your words. Here too, you simply ignore a desire of the population supported by a million people. Ladies and gentlemen! What about the consideration of the opposition's concepts? Environmental protection today is much, much more than a sub-protection site of nature in certain reserve areas. The creation of nature parks, of protected zones, that can and should be, too, but I really ask you: What about the market economy? How does it look like a reward for those companies that are actually Austria's hanging out sign, namely the organic farms? Should not these also have a good advantage in the context of an eco-tax reform that relieves labour? Where's that? I do not see any structural aspects on the revenue side of this budget. Shortly before elections say She always says: Yeah, that's important, that's what we want! But then it says: Unfortunately, this budget has not been implemented again. Here, too, you have come to the attention of the protagonists of the environmental idea, and you do so again and again, because your green veins become visible only shortly before election struggles and are otherwise visible in the work of this House, especially in economic policy work, not noticeable and not visible. Third area: Animal welfare. I do not need to say much to you after the current media debate. There you could and should save, namely for the export subsidies for live cattle, for slaughter. This is a European cultural shame. Here, however, the millions are not saved, here the EIA is obviously not on the part of the citizens, but on the side of an industrial agrar lobby, which has nothing to do with farmers in the country, because these farmers, who, especially as regards small farms, are still threatened in their existence, receive nothing from these fundings at all. Here, a wrong, crazy and also bestial system with billions of taxpayers is maintained. And I'm asking you why you don't finally sit here with the red pen. The concerns of the population, as expressed in the protests, as expressed in popular desires, are not found in the account. And I think that even the lawyers and the public prosecutors can confirm that we have a great deal of complaints about foreign law, as regards discrimination, that we have a great deal of complaints in the environmental field, as regards the rights of residents, and that we have a great deal of complaints in the social field, of groups of people who are not socially insured, such as caregivers, women in households, women with interrupted careers. In these areas, we really have large frequencies of complaints, and I ask you: What happened? If nothing has happened in the field of numbers, you at least ensure that the legal order is harmonised, make sure that the laws become legible again! Social laws, which are no longer legible to the vulnerable population, cannot fulfil their purpose of protection. If the ASVG, if the rental law, if all these laws are formulated in such a way that even experts can no longer read them, I ask you: Who protects these laws? [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] Apparently only the lawyers who have their interests, of course, but who are subject to a fee, because the social norms have been removed from those concerned. But I ask you what happened instead, and that is actually the most important thing in my remarks. I have the impression that the state of our democracy is really serious, and I also want to document it. Instead of taking seriously the concerns of those who are not heard, who have already cried out, and are finally getting into the house, for example by upgrading the petitions, for example by attracting the proponents of popular desires in important debates, in pension debates – as the women would have heard the students – the anyway modest state of democracy is further restricted. On the one hand, this is the case at European level. We are not approaching Austria with huge steps to support the efforts of the European Parliament, but instead to support the executive forces – the Schengen tag, the Europol keyword, the citizens' interests. There is a rapid development towards the Metternich State, the appreciation of the classical state functions, the repressive state functions, instead of the cultural state, the university state and the equality state being finally properly weighted. The second is the area of violence. The fact that the Constitutional Court has now often been informed has happened, I would say almost against the background of an inaction of the government, a non-co-operational capacity of the various ideologies of the governmental parties and in a vacuum. Yes, we need a political debate about families, about children, about young people. There seem to be huge ideological differences about this, but if this debate is not conducted, then the Constitutional Court becomes the legislator in no way voluntary – contrary to the principle of the division of powers. And that's wrong! The answer from the Greens' point of view is clear: We want above all an appreciation of the children, the young people, the educational opportunities and not a awarding of parents from the title of a nebulous family promotion! Third point: Indirect democracy has been restricted. The proceedings concerning the debate on pensions, the exclusion of the opposition to the pension reform, the non-change of the Rules of Procedure, as regards the right of minorities to set up committees of inquiry, which is in itself the standard of a developed democracy, have clearly and clearly demonstrated this. Nothing has happened in this area. One last point – and here I come again to the field of advertising promotion, to the diversity of opinions, because there the interests of different groups in the population can articulate themselves: I think it is a breach of the Constitution, I think it is an immeasurable thing if, in connection with a similar minimum item of the budget, a real attack on freedom of expression is being made again on women's articulation rights. And if, with the tolerance of the SPÖ, a law accompanying the budget states that the eligibility of periodic prints depends, among other things, on whether they respect the law of the military, then I really ask you: Where did this Republic come from? [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Does the Wehrrecht have a position other than other federal laws? We can talk about whether media that violates the laws – for example, in terms of equality between women and the dignity of women; all these laws – should no longer be promoted in the future. But something else happened here: There has been an ideological appreciation of a particular sub-area, and I think that this is an attack on democracy and the constitution in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3157	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3178	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Members of the People's Procuratorate! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I would like to refer to the area of work of the Federal Minister, especially the part relating to women. We will have a lot of work in the Committee on Equal Opportunities over the next few months. We have undertaken to discuss very closely the concerns of the women's people's desire, which has already been raised here, and to discuss a whole series of burning problems which are the subject of women's desire and of which we all know from our daily practice that their solution is of great importance. The main problems seem to me to be women's unemployment, the high wage differences between men and women – the wage differences have, unfortunately, increased slightly again – and the incompatibility of work and family. These are problems which are not, as is sometimes claimed, only interested in women's politicians, but these are problems that really concern women in their lives and whose solution is women's concern. I would like to present this with a survey of young women up to 30. 95 percent of women surveyed believe, among other things, that child and profession must be compatible. Only 5 percent are not of this opinion. They feel that they are particularly serious about the double burden on work by the household and that they have too little time for their children and for themselves. They also refer to the uneven payment of men and women and also to the disadvantage of job search if they are asked whether they are pregnant or pregnant. Around 70 percent of women see this as a very crucial problem in the labour market. To the question "Would you give up your profession if the man deserved more?" Only 7 per cent of academics say yes, 9 per cent of women with a different vocational training and 18 per cent of women without vocational training, the others, that is, the whole, very large majority, would like to go to work even if the man deserves more. So it is not that it depends on the wages of men whether women want to be employed or not, but they want to be active, they see it as fulfilling their lives to have children, to have family and also to put their wives in the profession. I think this is a very interesting result, which shows us that women are becoming increasingly self-conscious and increasingly independent. However, these surveys also show that there are very serious problems in implementing them into reality. There's no man who says I can't accept this job, I can't pursue this career because I have children. But for women, it is still a problem that they believe that they cannot agree, and that they are actually being beaten in front of their feet. Women feel very much the injustice of wages. That is something you always hear, in every discussion, women feel unfairly treated by employers. Another problem is the double burden on the household and the fact that women feel abandoned by men in this regard. Women rightly expect policy to create framework conditions that will facilitate their situation and help them shape their lives in the way they imagine it to be. There are many important areas in which we need to work. One of these areas is certainly the creation of additional childcare facilities, which also correspond to the changed working hours of women, because it is important that they know that their children are well cared for while working. We must deal intensively with the uneven payment, and this together with the trade unions, because that is something we can only take up together. And it is also important to search through the equal treatment law. In this context, I would like to say that I think it is very positive that the budget at last has the resources for the regionalisation of the equal treatment prosecution. There will be an attorney in Tyrol. I very much welcome this, and I hope that further expansion will be possible in the future. We must also be aware, however, that economic policy and the economy themselves are never gender-neutral. The state's savings measures in the social field tend to be borne by women. We must be very careful not to try to privatise care and care work. This is a trend which I think is very dangerous, because it is particularly important in these areas that qualified and well-trained people work there and that they are also socially insured. I therefore also believe that the reform of the ASVG-Novelle in the areas of care insurance and minor employment is very important and a step in the right direction. Finally, I would also like to say a word on family law reform. The partnership in the family is very important. If women alone have to bear the burden of family work, they have great problems in actually being able to work, and very often the work of women remains on the track. It is therefore very welcome that the Ministry of Justice has drawn up a novel on the reform of family law, in which what we always wanted is made clear, namely that housework is not just a matter for women. I think it must be possible to decide on this novel in the foreseeable future. Ladies and gentlemen! A great deal of work is waiting for us in the area of women's affairs, in the area of women's representation of interests, and I hope that in the next few months we will be able to achieve something together for women in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3251	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schreiner. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3272	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Parliament is part of the Chapter on the Supreme Institutions, and Parliament is part of the budget. Let us ask ourselves whether our budgetary law really corresponds to the modern demands of a budget, the budgetary law, which last 1986, i.e. more than ten years ago, has been innovative. We liberals believe, no, it no longer meets modern demands, it no longer meets the demands of handling of 750 billion schilling, it is antiquated. Let me present a few reform considerations from a free point of view, because it would be important, I believe they will be included in the debate on a new budgetary law. We first have the situation at the household, which can be described with "November fever". The November fever is not the fever you have, if you have an increased body temperature of 38, 39 degrees, dear Harald Ofner, if the flu virus surrounds us, it is a November fever that is diametrically opposed to sparingness: In November, all the institutions of the administration, all officials, because the Minister of Finance does not allow larger budget posts to be transferred to another calendar year, try to put their budget in order in such a way that they spend without actually having to spend it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is diametrically opposed to a economical administration. A second point of this reform would be to allow more responsibility for the individual budget positions. I have been thinking of a possibility to animated officials to make savings. What if an official discovered that he could save 500 000 s? Is he doing this or is he not? What incentives can I give him? I make a way to discuss: 500 000 S savings potential; He takes back 250 000 S again to the Minister of Finance, which he does not need – that is, 50 percent – and 40 percent he can present in a new marketing year, and 10 percent is awarded to this official with his department of premium in order to make him economical. In practice, the company is similar to a modern company. It also has a basic relationship for its member of the board and premiums if this stock company has a profitably positive development. There is also an incentive system. The same could be done with an official. – Second proposal. Third proposal: We believe that we must proceed to introduce a debt cover – not with absolute figures, but a debt cover according to the German model, with the re-indebtedness not higher than the investments that are spent this year. This makes sense, because new investments simply create assets, for which you can accept debts. This is also true in a private household, and that is also true in a farm. That can be the case with the state. But if the debt goes far beyond investment, then the negligence is. This is economically negligent in the long term. This should be prohibited in a modern household law, it should simply be made impossible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Fourth area: We currently have the Instrument Budget Committee. The Committee on Budgets has a lot of work in these weeks, but from January to October, it has a rather short-lived existence. There are reports from time to time from the Minister of Finance about what he has done. But we can't influence it anymore, because the executive has already spent the money. We have nothing left to determine. The Minister of Finance reports. We can peel him. We could say that he could have done that. I believe that in a modern budget a budget committee, as we now have it, should be converted into a budgetary committee, which makes a permanent review of the expenditure positions of well over 750 billion schilling. There would be a need for economy, and the honourable Member would have the opportunity to look at the Minister for Finance. That would be modern budget management! That is what we call for as the fourth point. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fifth point would be a more precise assessment of the cost of new legal projects. Then the opposition will put the rod in the window: If you come up with new initiatives, follow the advice procedure of the Minister of Finance, and this request can only be submitted if the Minister of Finance is okay for budgetary reasons. I think that this is a groundless piggy, a freak if the Minister of Finance...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3332	Please have another terminology, Mr Deputies. That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3348	Yes, Mr President. I think that this is an unfrozenness of the Minister for Finance, Mr President, if he says that the opposition, which does not have a staff of lawyers who do not have a Ministry of Finance, has the opposition to calculate the exactest. Let us look at whether he is able to do this by himself! How many laws do we decide here, and after three or four years we say: Yes, we have decided, but unfortunately – dear government parties, hand at heart! – we could not estimate the costs. So the same Minister of Finance, who wants to gnaw the opposition in the way that she does not even make her requests, because he simply does not give the Sanctuary to do so, makes the same mistakes budgetaryly. That is why we cannot implement modern budgetary policies in this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one last point. When I visited border counties in Lower Austria, I noticed that the population there wanted one: It wants to have a fair opportunity for life in these border areas, and a fair opportunity in a disadvantaged region is also a fair tax policy. This would mean rethinking in the direction that we are trying to strengthen these border regions with subsidies - the reverse way - that we are making discharges on direct taxes. I therefore propose that you make a federalisation of the Austrian tax system, such as in Switzerland, where 44 percent income tax is paid in Basel and only 22 percent in Appenzell-Innerrhoden. This would be an opportunity to relieve disadvantaged areas of direct taxation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, our liberal proposal is that the federal government should cut to 30 per cent, transfer tasks to countries – financing the national teachers, housing promotion – and 20 per cent tax revenue as a surcharge tax, while at the same time giving countries the possibility to vary communities. This would be a modern approach to a modern budgetary and tax policy in the time of the computer, the computer. This would be a way of taking the countries into account, too, with a total budget of 750 billion schilling for expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen! These would be a few proposals on financial, budgetary and tax policies, which, in addition to rigorous savings measures, would allow tax packages to make budget and tax policies in such a way that people also accept them.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3405	I call Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3429	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to dedicate myself to the chapter on women, which certainly does not cover the largest share of the budget in the field of the upper institutions. Mrs Hlavac has already pointed out – and at the same time the answer to Mrs Petrovic's question, what happens to the women's desire – that we have a number of dates in the coming weeks and months to deal with this issue. Women's policy is a cross-sectional matter. It is, of course, taking place in a wide range of areas, and the demands of women are, of course, also found in the various areas. There must certainly be a main focus on women's policy in the area of social policy. In this context, I would like to point out that we made two regulations here in this House last week – in fact, there were several, but among them there were two special ones; I am correcting: there are three – which I would like to draw out specifically: The first is an improved billing of child rearing times. Mrs Bundesminister, I am not going to say – I also made an issue on this – that I was very surprised that you were obviously aware of the possibility that the better reckoning of child rearing times would actually be achieved by 1. January 2000 is expected to come, have crossed and this problem has been made the main issue. I asked myself, because I thought I didn't understand that correctly. I would just like to deal with the fact that, if I was properly informed, you would have preferred a general independent protection of women from this scheme, so that all women are as social as possible. These are two different positions. It is certainly possible to think in both directions, but I still believe that the decision was better to teach child training times better. I believe that this would be an essential step. There are other legal measures, such as the inclusion of minor employment in social security, also essential steps, steps that go in the direction you want. The possibility of receiving social security periods for the care of sick people is also a far-reaching and essential step. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we have also decided on a number of ways of self-insurance which women in themselves are very welcome. This is mainly about the protection of old age. There seems to me to be something very important, which I would just like to make on a punctual basis. We have to say again and again – because we are always talking about the poor, about poverty in old age – that often women out of Marriages are far too little and far too low in good financial conditions in old age, because benefits are far too high, which they cannot absorb. Therefore, we will also need to find a care model in the case of divorce so that women do not simply get to social cases after divorce. They didn't deserve that. The men's responsibilities are always to be charged here. But if we as legislators do nothing, this problem will last much longer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The uneven wages have been causing us real problems for years, even decades. We have tabled a request here as an EIA Group, and above all the women, which is still to be negotiated. I was pleased when I read that Madam President Schmidleithner, too, is thinking in this direction or joining in with our proposals on how to evaluate work at all, and that, finally, one should have to evaluate the performance of work in collective agreements on the basis of female criteria, because women can bring in a lot of things, which is particularly important for modern jobs. This makes the shear a little more closed. Nevertheless, there is a need for a variety of problem-solving solutions in terms of uneven payment, even as a result of different life-cycles. If before Christmas, as I have heard, we are going to be discussing a model in the Constitutional Committee which is designed to encourage those farms to take up young people, then, ladies and gentlemen in this House, I must say, this is a step, and of course the same must come for women. I am not in favour of implementing the way in which women's people's desire can be interpreted, but I believe that we – and there are many models abroad too – must do something in this direction for women, but also for older workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Education and training are key words. They are an essential factor in increasing the level of income justice and, of course, better paid jobs. Nevertheless, we have to find out – and this is what everyone who deals with this issue – that the offer for well-trained women is often not necessarily found in their living environment. Especially women in rural areas, when well-trained, often have to either commute, which is linked to mobility problems, if the transport infrastructure is not developed accordingly, but often they also have to change their place of origin, their residence, because there are the corresponding offers only in the agglomerations. We must therefore ensure, of course, that the majority of jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises are improved, especially in border areas, by also setting up businesses that offer better paid jobs there. Let us not forget – and we talk about it very little – that a third of the companies are run by women. We are particularly concerned that it will enable women to make themselves independent. However, we keep telling women that they should not become independent in areas that are only very short-lived, for example, Bachblüten-consultation. In fact, there is probably a need for appropriate know-how here. Women are very well taken up in the areas offered for this in the context of the economy, not in the context of gender, but in areas in which they can take the experience of the others. I don't know if in these special training areas – I liked it very much at first, but I've looked at it a little closer now, so women's business centers et cetera – the success is as great as what's invested in money. Ladies and gentlemen! Women's affairs don't just concern women. Here the whole family environment is affected, so the interest of the whole family is also very great. I believe that we still have a lot to do in this area. There are, of course, a lot of approaches. We are, of course, successful in the field of social affairs and in some other areas, but women's policy is comprehensive. We must therefore also do more in areas which are not particularly women-specific. And there is an urgent need for the so-called partnership of men, which is often stressed, in order to move forward together in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3514	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3535	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen! In the general debate, the majority of the debate has already been held in several rounds on the actual budgetary policy. As a result, the interest is also dampened, I would like to say. Mr Feurstein has, however, prompted me to go back to some basic points of the budget. We can all say – and that with a certain satisfaction, whether we are opposition or government party – that we have achieved a class goal, so to speak, and these are the Maastricht criteria. That's all right, it's recognized, it's never been disputed either. Progress in budget creation has also not been addressed. If you were to stop me many times and quote from me from old speeches that I would have said that the budget would not be held in 1996, but would have kept it, I must say, Mr Feurstein: That is true, but please bear in mind that, for the first time, you have complied with the budget in the deficit presented for the first time in 1996. All years before It clearly fails to achieve this objective, so clearly that we can rightly say that it was not even serious budgetary policy. And you know very well, Mr Feurstein, and ladies and gentlemen, about the government groups. So don't pretend it was different! I join the expert statements. That's a success. But, Mr. Feurstein, the experts said something about it: You said that this Republic has a structural deficit – and the answers are not given. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Feurstein, ladies and gentlemen of the government. We need to be clear about one thing: Budgetary policy is so to speak, but government work is empty. That's our problem! Mr Josef Lackner, who unfortunately no longer belongs to the National Council, has always said as chairman of the Budget Committee: You know, that's the government statement cast into figures. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This is what Mr Petrovic said today!]] This statement was, of course, a fatal mistake, because it was really easy to prove, Mr Feuerstein – and this is also easy for you to prove to this budget – that you are not doing any reasonable government work. You know that, and that's the case, too. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I admit, ladies and gentlemen, that you have become modest, and therefore your expectations are not so great. I'm still immodest and I'm saying, I would like to see it for this country and the Republic that we are actually bringing together reforms – rather than reflections that are so watered down that they can no longer even be titulated as such. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, I would like to address something else, ladies and gentlemen, because the chapter on which we are discussing is that of the Supreme Institutions, and I think it is quite clear what democratic and parliamentary understanding exists among various responsible officials of this Republic if we have to miss the Federal Chancellor in the deliberations on the chapters of the Supreme Institutions and the Federal Chancellor's Office. I do not know, Mr President Fischer, how you feel about it, because the Federal Chancellor belongs to your group. I don't know if you're writing him a letter and expressing your disappointment. – I cannot remember, however, that a German Chancellor has ever remained at this chapter and at the general debate, although, as we know, he is here for a Council of Ministers meeting. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Sensitive Is this the demonstration of a reasonable, or do we say, an encouraging, solid democratic concept, as a recognition of Parliament? I do it every time I stand here, so that I actually say: Yes, please, is it really? Is Parliamentaryism? These empty benches, these bored Members? [[Abg. Böhacker: This may be your speech!]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: You have to look in your own rows!]] Mr. Steindl, is that it? Don't you ever wonder? Yes, yes! [[Abg. May. Steindl: Look in your own rows!]] This is not an accusation, Mr Steindl, but a question. It's a question to you: How do you feel when you stand here and the banks of the Liberals are empty? [[Abg. May. Steindl: You have to start with yourself!]] That's not an accusation. You are always so touched, you have such a bite reflex. Do you not ask yourself back and forth whether we 183 Members could do something about it, and what could it be to improve this situation? Or do you think that this condition is such as we wish and imagine it anyway? Then let's say that too. – My idea of parliamentarianism is not, at least, that. My idea is not to hold a general debate on the budget chapter of the Supreme institutions and the Federal Chancellery, including women without federal chancellors. And that does not mean that I underestimate the Minister. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are sensibilities. Then the individual responsible persons put a sign, but they put it in the wrong direction and in the wrong weight. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Again, back to the statements made by Mr Feuerstein – I am very sorry now, he is not here again – but nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – yes, tell him further, it is really beautiful –: [[Abg. Steibl: If it's a beautiful thing, I'd like to tell him!]] What does that mean? We should have respect for our constitutional judges!Unknown term type: "%s".? I believe that we must respect the knowledge of constitutional judges. But it is strange, of course, if a member of that group tells me, that we, the Liberals, so to speak, respect for the constitutional courts, to the Supreme Courts, who, with their congenial partner, the SPÖ, always flees into a constitutional rule – in disregard of the Constitution of my interpretation – if otherwise it no longer finds itself right. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have to ask yourself this! What if, Mr Feuerstein, you raise all the banal materials in the constitutional order so that you can no longer be criticized by the Constitutional Court? What does it mean, Mr. Feuerstein, when the Constitutional Court says: We are against it, we are majority against such a regulation!Unknown term type: "%s".? What does that mean to us as parliamentarians? – Does that mean we have to say: Aha, the Constitutional Court is against a rule by a majority! Everything's still! What if the Constitutional Court sometime says: We are majority against a change in the Constitution or against any constitutional law!Unknown term type: "%s".? What to do Then you, Lord Feuerstein? [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I hope he never has to say that!]] Then you are no longer in a position to rule. I have to tell you that. And that, Lord Feuerstein, is the great difference in the view: The findings of the highest courts must be respected. The findings of the Supreme Courts have a debate here in this House – or not – which will come to light on a case-by-case basis. This knowledge of the families will trigger a debate, yes, has already triggered a debate in two ways: once from the content, from the subject, because there is a need for action and no consensus – that is one side – and for the second reason that one has to rightly establish – that is not only the liberal Members from opposition division, but also other recognised constitutional experts say that the Constitutional Court has clearly exceeded its competence on this issue, supported by the inactivity of the government coalition. One may still be allowed to discuss this, without being accused, to underestimate or disregard its highest organs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A Distinguished Opinion is such a matter of course in every... [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That you do not want them, I understand, and that you do not want them for good reason, I also understand that it is, however, a democratic, classical right, which belongs to that form in which you are not at home, namely minority protection or consultation of a weak person, because that, ladies and gentlemen, is the essence of dissent opinion: a chance for the inferior, so to speak, to make his position heard. This must be a major concern for democrats, for people who are on balance, Mr. Feuerstein, who place as much emphasis on compensation as you do. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's a judge's sentence!]] In every discussion, it is valuable for the inferior to know why he is inferior. And it is valuable for everyone who wins to know with what strength he has gained with what conviction. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A judgment does not depend on the strength!]] But look, Mrs. Fekter, this has nothing to do with it now, but it's when people deal with each other, just important to hear a dissent opinion too, because otherwise you will become "blind", ladies and gentlemen, you will believe you have 100 percent behind yourself, but in reality only a minority. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: The Liberals too have only one minority behind them!]] Oh, worm...itzer! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: But this is primitive!]] Look S’, Mr Wurmitzer, your answer must be: Arrogance! [[Abg. Wormitzer: Primitiv!]] It's new, but please. Let me come to the last point, Mr Wurmitzer and ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, including the SPÖ. There's the famous "Lex Khol". [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Freemans don't touch you?]] The liberals? – It’s lucky today, because there’s no time pressure. Do you know that? In the debate, there is no time pressure, you are allowed to discuss quietly. I like to be ready for this, but I have the advantage of microphones. That's your bad luck. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You have the advantage of a larger number!]] Perhaps I also have other advantages, gentlemen, but I do not want to claim them now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter, compared to you, of course, I only have disadvantages. That's clear, that's not a question. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Self-knowledge is the first way to improve!]] Oh, Mr President, how nice. Let me, however, explain why, in my view, Mr. Khol – and direct it to him – is so mistaken in the question of promoting printing and, in my view, is so unfairly argued. Paragraph 2 mentions cases which lead to a failure of public support. They are a matter of course, since, if they were set up as a case-law, they disagree with the law in force. It is forbidden in this Republic to spread national socialist ideas, not only in prints, but of course in words, as you know. If, therefore, Mr Khol refers to the fact that, according to the Liberals, everything should be allowed to spread, among other things, national socialist ideas, I must say to him two things: Dear Andreas, first of all, no one will believe this because you will not even succeed in putting the liberals in the National Socialist corner. And second, it's unfair because there's a law anyway. But there is this regulation of the paragraph. 2 Article 3 not yet in which, as it were, the scope is created. Mrs Petrovic therefore said quite correctly: This is a threatening instrument of discipline! What does that mean? – The Wehrgesetz is an interesting example here. If someone expresses himself publicly against the obligation of military service or against other things, is that a call to the breaking of the law? And what if I have to say or print – contrary to my friend and colleague Moser: Let's get rid of the federal army!Unknown term type: "%s".? Is that a violation in this sense? – It is this, ladies and gentlemen, the attempt, first of all, to stop the variety of opinions. But since we know that we need to be more than careful on this point – the next step is taken immediately when it comes to displeasure in the eyes of a majority – we must also "shoot" at it from the beginning, we must put our fingers on it and not stop saying: That's not right; here's a danger! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The fact that you, ladies and gentlemen, are still hiding in a budget law, although the effects are not even measurable, I find this particularly blatant. This has nothing to do with the budget, because the case has not yet occurred. In other words: There is no material and financial impact for this passus. I believe, however, that you have done so with your intention, in the hope that no one will stumble over it anyway – which would not be surprising in view of the impact. Ladies and gentlemen! Last but not least a word on the public prosecutor's office. I believe that we can and can discuss issues of efficiency and cost issues without wishing to question them in principle. I think it is called upon from its side to take those measures which are appropriate not only to strengthen confidence in this institution but also to demonstrate that it is ready and able to respect reasonable forms of organization and other rules. But one principle, ladies and gentlemen, would be to change, and this concerns all of us: How do they come? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate in office? – As we know, on the proposal of the three strongest parliamentary groups. The sense of the People's Procuratorate – like the meaning of other control agencies; and this will probably also apply to the public prosecutor's office that it acts in the sense of a control body – would actually be to grant these rights to minorities. Just as it should be a minority right to use parliamentary investigation committees according to certain rules, the appointment of lawyers should also be a minority right – at least a right that does not exclude minorities. If you want to maintain this – and you obviously do not want to vote in favour of this – then, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to stand up to the accusation – this time also with the FPÖ – that you want to remain under yourself, that you only want to share power circlingly, just as you are forced by the voters to do so. It must be said to us, in the same way, that it must be fuelled or strengthened: We want to change that! And we'll do the same.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3855	The next speaker is Mr Stippel. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3877	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I too, like my previous speaker at the end of his speech, would like to deal with problems, concerns, wishes of the public prosecutor. The Public Prosecutorship is an institution that has now been established for well over 20 years in this country, which should help – and very often has helped – citizens in their past activities, who have not gone along the proper legal path. For this work, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you very much not only in the Committee, but also here in the plenary session, and also ask you to join us in the future – and I am going to talk about it – to come closer to this goal of helping citizens and to continue to give them this help. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] The Austrian People's Procuratorate is an international model. It has provided assistance, in particular, in the construction of public prosecutors in the former reform states. So the Austrian People's Procuratorate is also valid abroad. There are problems everywhere, problems the People's Procuratorate has repeatedly referred to us, to the legislator, and I am also somehow a directly affected person, because in the contacts with the population I always have with a This is particularly important in the area of social affairs. I had to deal personally only a few days ago with a very similar case, as the public prosecutors in their 20th century. Report – that concerns a case from Upper Austria. I would like to talk briefly about this because I believe that the legislator is already required over the next few months. We are talking about the principle of application. In other words, if it is not requested in good time, there can also be no recognition of rightful benefits in the social field. We all know, however, that the legal knowledge depends on different things, especially on social status, that is to say, stratification, on debt formation and also on regional origin, that often those in need of aid do not know what rights they have and what rights they could exploit. I refer to a case you have described on page 32 in your report, according to which someone who could have received a social benefit for 29 years under the Vaccination Act has not received it. And I have heard of such a similar case a few days ago, and I do not yet know how far we can provide assistance in this particular case. I therefore believe that the legislator would be required to decide, with this principle of application, also to grant retroactive benefits, at least until the date of the claim's creation, but at most – of course, one must limit this – for a period of five years from the date of application. - That's a problem. The second problem, which always arises in the social field, is the problem of the social security scheme, i.e. the obligation of social security institutions to provide information and advice in law. For example, if a person who has applied for a pension is rejected, is comforted at a later stage, but in the meantime in the meantime confirms a highly judicial judgment that he was right but did not receive any information, therefore he could not make the request, then he falls through the social network. Although there may be problems on the part of social security institutions, it is about the retroactive production of a legal condition. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Let us get through to the legal creation of a social-law production claim! In the hope of further successful cooperation between the public prosecutors and the House, I would like to end these brief remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3942	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3963	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen. The budget debates are always the most difficult debates because they last for a week and on the first day, given what is ahead of us for discussions and listening, many are obviously tired. - That's the one side. The other side is that for many, especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the large political groups, these debates are the only opportunity and opportunity to comment on all the issues and discuss them all. I think this is very positive. I am therefore accustomed to speaking before half-empty banks – even without the Minister of Women. [[Federal Minister Mag. Prammer left the hall for a few minutes]] That doesn't matter. The topic is nevertheless very important, you can't cut it often enough. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: She was just there!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grabner: (pointing to the empty bank series of the Greens) The Greens are not there!]] This also does not matter, because my colleagues know for a long time what I will say on this subject, share my opinion and support me politically – whether they are there or not – contrary to you. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But you're actually helping me with your calls. Thank you! This makes it at least more lively, everyone wakes up or comes back in because it's so loud. That's wonderful. But now on the subject, on women's people's desire and on the implementation of women's popular desire. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We already know what you say about this!]] You should actually know that. It was not hard to guess, Mrs. Partik-Pablé. If I go to the speaker's desk on this subject, it can only be about women's policy. [[Abg. Oils: That's it! You should remember that, Mrs. Partik-Pablé!]] But now you know it, even if you haven't known it before. I have to tell you that I consider the options and the prospect of successful enforcement of women's popular desire – or even some of the points of women's popular desire – to be very bad. Why? . precisely because of the issue we are discussing today, namely the budget, the financialability or the financing possibilities of the various measures. This is the real problem of women's popular desire. It is not enough for you to support all, or almost all, in the debates on this subject, one or the other, to say: I can imagine that! or: Of course, that is what we have always wanted, and then, when it comes to concrete implementation, it is about financing that there is no money for it. One of the many examples of this is the childcare facilities. Again to the memory: The "Kindergarten Billion" – an old Social Democratic Party election promise to set up a "Kindergarten Billion" in the budget; originally, even one billion a year – has melted to an amount of 600 million schillings, which, according to the government's intention, is to be disbursed only once. We know that, according to the Central Statistical Office, around 140 000 child care centres are needed to meet the needs of the population. Ten thousand seats have now been created. That's no more than a drop on the hot stone! In four-eye discussions, in consultation with the women's people's representatives, some representatives of the government parties admit that this is, of course, not enough. For example, family minister Bartenstein, who even said in a conversation with the women's people's representatives that he could imagine making a commitment to use other funds. He was also responsible for the need-based and comprehensive development of childcare facilities. He goes even further than the Minister for Women, who has duly referred to the Committee on Budgets: That was an initial inflammation of the federal government, and now the countries are on it. – So easy, so easy to do it when it comes to concrete implementation of certain measures! They're just cleaning up. They either say: There's no money there, we're sorry! Or: That was an initial inflammation, but now the countries are to continue! I wonder how you want to solve the problem, even if you want to push the ball to the countries, when you divide the number of places that would be needed, and the number of 10 000 places that have now been created. I then put forward a motion for a resolution on the joint financing of childcare facilities by the Federal Government and the Länder. This is also a call from Mr Bartenstein: The Federal Government and the Länder should jointly finance childcare. We'll pick up this ball. Our request is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Again: If you take your promises, which you like to make at election times and loosely, even half seriously, then it may not be a problem for you to take a step in this direction here. It is not a question of all the other problems. In the last few weeks, we have repeatedly discussed the fact that on the one hand, the savings packages of the two last budgets have cleared families and, above all, single women off quite everything that can only be cleared down, such as the safeguarding of two years of karenz, which is particularly important for single women, and above all the safety of women that their care obligations are in the foreground when it comes to the placement of work by the employment offices. In reality, all of this looks different: Limit on one side You enter this area through the savings package, on the other hand you do not expand the childcare facilities even though you have promised. Their promises in this regard and the reality are far apart. In a conversation with the representatives of the women's people's desire, the Minister for Social Affairs has spoken of such a thing as "culpable solutions" and has said that the "hold under control" will be arranged. She said, in terms of the provision of care for women, that: Well, for about three months, you can already press an eye, and in the next three months you should look at the labour market service, where perhaps a suitable childcare facility can be found. And after that, women should be ready for work, but, well, on the other hand, there are, of course, also care obligations. – You can already see: It's not really tangible. That's where you want to make a spatula that can't be created at all. In fact, all of your actions in this field are, in fact, punishment actions, but not only for single women, as ÖVP likes to do, but also for women as a whole and for families. We know that women have to contribute more and more to family income, but they are disabled and disabled if there are no corresponding childcare facilities. One of my previous speakers, Mrs Bauer, said: Women's policy is primarily social policy, particularly in the social field. – I would like to contradict this by saying: Women's policy is above all a question of equality! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Look at all your actions in the field of equality, as the savings again. We made a series of inquiries about public savings in spring. You wanted to save more than 9 000 planning sites; almost half of them were declared as separate at the request in spring. And all the figures, if at all, indicate that the savings are "natural" again at the expense of women. Even in your answers, Mrs Minister, we are receiving very wound sentences which suggest that, when it comes to budget savings and equal treatment and equal treatment in the public service, measures in the public service are also at the expense of women. Let us look at this equal treatment, this equality in other areas. After three years you have finally managed to set up a regional body for equal treatment issues in Tyrol – that is, when it comes to that, because I believe it only when it is opened. But today, despite an application, despite annual causes, despite all the efforts that have been made, you cannot show a plan of what the further expansion of the position of the equal treatment lawyer will look like, what the further regionalisation of this institution is to be done. If I go further and list all the institutions, all the bodies involved in the field of equality, and the way in which these are dealt with and taught in the budget, it turns out that first women's policy is equality and equality policy, and second, that these are again saved in precisely these areas. Important bodies in the field of equality are not only the equal treatment attorney or the regionalisation of this institution, not only the women's representatives in the public service, who could also sing a song of how much they suffer from the completely inadequate equipment of their office, but in particular the women's advisory bodies in the countries which fulfil essential tasks. Mrs. Minister! You say you see your task here is to give just an initial inflammation. They stress that you cannot secure the permanent existence, although on the other hand you say that the existing situation should not be threatened. – This is the same Spagat as before, the same Spagat that the Minister of Social Affairs is trying to do, but you too will not create it. He will only lead to where he has already led: to a pointless referral of the women's advisory bodies from one place to another, without results. We have made the effort to question the "network of the Austrian women's and girls' advisory bodies" about how they actually get their resources. Do you know that there are ten different bodies from which these bodies receive their resources? Do you know that the employees of these advisory bodies have to bring a large part of their working time to write applications to ten different places, then to research, to reinvigorate, to submit new projects and so on? – This is precious working time that is being lost in these women’s advisory services at the expense of more important other agents? Do you know that these women's and girls' counsellors fulfil a number of tasks, which are covered by the term "equal rights", but which, above all, also serve the professional orientation and expansion of the range of careers, including legal advice, health advice, education events, and leisure activities for girls, which, for example, is also a very important activity? They thus fulfil a number of very important tasks. One of the most important measures is the provision of training and training opportunities. If we take it seriously with the equal rights of women, these institutions must be guaranteed in the budget at least as much as the family advisory services. Mrs. Minister! It should be noted that some 110 million Schillings are estimated for the 310 family advisory services in the 1998 budget estimate, while only 27 million Schillings under the title "Special Measures" are planned for the women's advisory services in the same budget estimate. But it is absolutely unacceptable that, as you have explained to us in the Committee, only 55 percent of these 27 million schillings actually benefit the women's and girls' advisory services. How do you explain this? As a woman's minister in the public, how do you claim to support the actions of women's people's desire if you have not even taken this small measure of funding for the women's advisory services, the budgetary anchoring of equality with family advisory services, on your flags?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Mrs. Minister! You are unbelievable in your policy! You are unbelievable if you only show yourself here if it is opportunistic if there is a popular desire to sign, if you say on the one hand: I support this popular desire, but on the other hand, in this area of your own, in the field of equal rights, in equal treatment – one of the few areas you have as a woman minister – do not take consistent action if you do not do any appropriate public work in this area if you do not show in this area that these bodies of women's and girls' advisory bodies and the regionalization of equal treatment lawyers, but also the Women's Commissioner in the public service need a secure existential guarantee. If you don't do this, you're in danger of being a woman's minister without being able to say anything about it, because you've been left under your fingers before you can just turn around once. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] At the end of this chapter, I would like to address another issue. Mrs. Minister! At the start of your term of office and at the beginning of your ministerial activity, you have always resisted the fact that women should go to the federal army to open this option. – You have now surrendered, you have agreed, and it will soon be ready: In April, the first women will come to the Federal Army. Minister! However, they have failed to oppose the propaganda of the EIA, which aims to create jobs in this area. It is said that there will be jobs for thousands of women. – There can be no talk of that at all! No job is created in addition! Plans will be saved, including in the Ministry of Defence. Again: There will be no job creation in this area! Whoever stands out here and believes that this is a measure of equal treatment or equality lies in his own pocket! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is beautiful dyery that you operate from the ÖVP here by saying you open this area to the women. It's just about attendance. This is in no way about the creation of jobs! At the same time, savings are being made in the Ministry of Defence, where women's servants are now entitled under this law to wait to be able to take the same career course as men! This is the only aspect that would have been interesting. However, there is a reduction in the number of planning posts, which is expressly stated here again. But You don't just stand by to say that. They don't say anything about it. They do not say that this is not a measure of equal treatment, that this is nothing but an act of beauty dyeing, an obvious good-will action, a "sugarl" for the ÖVP. Minister! What's she giving you for that? Did the ÖVP give you anything for it? Has it at some point approved you in the area of women's policy? - I don't know. At least I don't know anything about it. Minister! They're gonna give up, social democracy's gonna be all right! She has already practiced the kneeling and surrendering in recent months. They give in – and don't get anything for it at all! "Women to the Army" is not a measure that brings women even a single job, not a measure of equal treatment and equality. And it is, moreover, a most inadequate measure to reduce the federal army and to reduce all military facilities.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4148	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kammerlander is sufficiently supported and is the subject of the negotiations. It now has Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Prammer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4172	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know, Mrs Kammerlander, that you actually do very little to understand what a woman's minister or the woman's minister in Austria is doing? Do you know that I have repeatedly presented a lot of it in publications, publications and in the media? Do you know that it was only last week that I spent a day together with women's representatives, such as the national governments, in very intensive discussions to consider how women's projects continue? Do you know that I am taking a tour of Austria to cut down exactly the path of the women's projects you have quoted and put them on a corresponding funding basis? [[Abg. Oils: We don't know that! How do we know?- Oh, my God!]] And do you know that there is an Austrian federal constitution, which clearly lays the childcare facilities in the competence of the countries? – I have to tell you: I am not at all prepared to release the countries from this competence. Finally, there is a financial compensation which takes account of the fact that the countries have to carry out this task in relation to childcare facilities. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Steibl.]] I would like to be ready – and I would like to receive a lot of support here in the House in the context of the negotiations on a new financial compensation – because of the shift in competences and the prospect of corresponding donations at the federal level. This may have a lot of meaning, and in the past there have been women ministers who have tried this over and over again, but the support has usually been missing. I would like to say something about your appeal to women's counsellors: The women's counsellors are at my heart. I'm loading everyone – right now She is a female Member of this House – to discuss the tasks of women's advisory services. It is not only the key word that can be put at the centre, and that is why we have solved the problem, but that is much more difficult. I am currently defining this together with those working locally in the regions. In Vorarlberg it is different than in Vienna. In Vorarlberg the structures look different than in Vienna. All of this has to be taken into account. I also promised the representatives of the countries to achieve a very strong regional compensation. It can not always be a coincidence where the projects are created. For there are needs of women that are derived from women – and not from the fact that perhaps motivated women can be combined and a project can be created. There must be much clearer and much more structured work in this area in the future. All of this is very intense to prepare, the discussions, the preparations are on high-speed. – Much has been said about how budgets develop and how the 1998 budget will develop. I also said this in the Committee on Budgets: In contrast to other budgets, the female budget is not only cut short. So I don't want to leave that in the room like that, but go into the right light. For equal treatment and regionalisation, the following must be said: Let us take a look at how it works when we have a regional office in Tyrol. Let us first get experience with this regional equal treatment prosecution before we take the next step! – How is this job used? What derives from that? – And then I think you should take the next step, one after the other and not two at the same time. They also discussed the topic "Women in the Federal Army". There too, I can only advise you: If you read the whole convolut, you will see that no woman will be able to enter a training relationship if you do not have a job at the same time following the training relationship. It can also take the legal course and call on various bodies if it is to be avoided. This means, of course, that only a small number of women can enter the federal army. We or I have at least always said – the result shows it quite clearly –: With this draft of this law, the aim is not to replace the presence service, but the way into the professional soldiership. We know – you yourself have also given it to a newspaper today – that there are many women in civil service posts who are not actually civilian posts. For this reason, they should also have the opportunity to make the military career. One thing was very essential to me, and I think I did: No woman is supposed to be pre-preceded, something lucious or tasty, which cannot be observed afterwards. That was the essential and important thing to me: Women are not substitutes for lack of present-day servants, but women may have a professional opportunity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have always stressed that this is not necessarily the most important thing in the sense of a woman's minister's work. But since I have seen good conscience that this draft actually takes account of the needs of women, I have come to the view that those who want to do so should also be able to do so. I am convinced that in any case there will not be many who will follow this path. Another thing that's very important to me as a woman minister: I hear again and again about the many goals that are formulated, especially in the context of women's popular desire. One goal is clear: It's about the same chances, it's about equal rights. – Let’s do it!, always say everyone. But doing so also requires walking away, and the ways there are defined very differently. If it were so easy to bring the paths clear and clear across all ideological boundaries to a point, then we would already be a bit further. That is why some measures have to be checked over and over again whether what is being said is not only good, but also good, because at times both are very far apart. I say one thing quite openly: What is most important to me as a women's minister is the under-a-hut-brange of work and family. That's really it! And who wants uneven wages to belong to the past, who wants uneven pensions to belong to the past and much more, must also take care of the fair distribution of supply work. This is not private, it is public, and it is precisely on this issue that inequality can be traced back again and again. As long as this issue does not belong to the past, as long as this issue is taken out of the past again and again, we will not make any progress in terms of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4224	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4245	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, I would like to focus on media policy – this is what Mr Bundeskanzler refers to – and I would like to say straightaway: the most important media policy principle of the Austrian People's Party is the maintenance and extension of the diversity of media and opinion in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any case, it is desirable for the EIAs to continue to distribute public power through greater diversity and more competition that will arise this year through the award of private radio licenses, to limit the risk of monopoly and media premeditation by now allowing the media consumer to access more providers and to compete with the consumer. [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] That's a real development! [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: 160 million for the "New Volksblatt"!]] We have contributed a great deal to this development, and we also welcome this path, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, media and their contents are not any goods, such as detergents, but sensitive products that we need to pay great attention to. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Is it true that you are managing director of the "New Volksblatt"?]] That's what I'm going to come to talk about. Mr Meischberger has proved his incompetence in media policy for years. So let him start with him first! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr President, I should like to thank From you – that is sure – we cannot learn anything in media policy or in business policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You need 160 million for Meischberger!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have always admitted ourselves to a dual broadcasting system, that is, to a conciliatory of public-law broadcasting, such as the ORF is one, and from private radio and television stations. For us, it is important that there is an increase in the number of jobs in the media industry. The development in Austria was such that in recent years we have exported media jobs abroad, for example to the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Mr Colleague! You can stop!]] This development is an important task for us. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Mr Colleague! You can stop already, the Federal Chancellor has already transferred!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we welcome this media policy development towards more private electronic media and thus more diversity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A number of measures must also be taken: Firstly, we need a reform of the ORF law. However, we also need to make possible Austrian private terrestrial television, and finally we also need the creation of an independent media and telecommunications authority. This too is a concern that we will pursue consistently next year. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: You have something of it!]] In any event, we from the Austrian People's Party believe that the ORF must continue to focus on its role as a public-law institution in the future and its self-understanding. He's supposed to stay this, he can. Because, ladies and gentlemen, everything else can be at least as good as it is, but free of charge. – But we will see that in the next few years. Whether the proposed transformation of the ORF into a stock company is a good idea, I dare to doubt because I do not trust the compatibility of public-law order and stock company. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Your Molterer wanted that!]] The ORF should and must continue to exercise public interests in the future, such as the education contract, the cultural contract and the information contract. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] However, the Board of Directors of a stock company is obliged to increase the profits of the company. And so you can only make an ORF AG subject to public-law requirements. As a stock company, the ORF would also be forced to push less profitable programme areas to the brink, such as the cultural and educational programme or the respect for regional interests. And likewise, the previously practised restriction in advertising times would be called into question. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is important reasons for talking about a stock company in this case, things that we also want to take into account in the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the unqualified criticism within the framework of the 2nd framework. The budget-accompanied law in the revision of the Public Service Promotion Act is decisively rejected by the Greens and also today by Mrs. Klubobfrau Petrovic. [[Abg. Oillingers: The promotion of the diversity of opinions!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this innovation, we have clearly defined when and under what conditions media should be promoted or not to be promoted. It is not possible to promote those who call for the violent fight against democracy or the rule of law, who support violence against people as a means of politics, and who repeatedly call for the general disregard of the rule of law in a particular area of law. Our constitutionally guaranteed freedom of expression allows for both right-wing and left-wing opinions to be published and remains, and should and must remain, but: It also calls for the constitutional fidelity of our Republic to ensure that their enemies are not encouraged by tax schillings. That's our position anyway! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore clear to us that: We will continue to defend ourselves with determination against attacks on the foundations of our society. Neither left nor right-wing journals are to be promoted by means of taxation. And as a parliamentarian, I consider it natural to ensure that public money, that tax resources, that ministries funds go only to those organizations and associations that are law-worthy and constitutional and that are on the ground of our laws and our constitution. This must apply to magazines as well as to organizations and associations.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4436	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Stadler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4457	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! After the managing director of the "New Volksblatt"... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Editor!]] – He's still a publisher! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Only managing director!]] Just managing director! Mrs. Wirtschaftsfachmaschine für Schottertechnik! You should know what your party colleague represents: He's been representing his own interests today. But I should like to quote another prominent ÖVPler and welcome, Mr Neisser, the fact that you are currently holding the presidency. You know I like to quote you. So they said, "We request committee of inquiry – the majority of the train is driving over it. We are bringing in written questions, where Members are preparing to ask what Minister's Secretary of State is getting paid. In a legally questionable statement, they are denied the answer because it is said that the whole is subject to data protection." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what Heinrich Neisser said on 10 October. ==References== – And it has not changed since Heinrich Neisser spoke in June 1986! The opposition brings in applications for the setting up of committee of inquiry, with the result – I quote Mr Neisser – that the majority is above it. The opposition is asking questions, the answers are getting drowsier and more transparent, they are increasingly referring to the "paravent" of data protection and they believe that Parliament can lead the light behind. That is why, Mr Neisser, therefore, the High House, in May of this year, the opposition has been prompted to boycott the committees in the short term for a few weeks. – However, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing at all! It was only changed that the parliamentary majority groups decided on a procedural right for the committee of inquiry and at the same time promised that it would remain dead. One no longer has the excuse, there is no procedural right, the law-making body can theoretically control – but she could do so before – only the fig leaf that lacks a procedural right has been lost. It has changed not only since the decision-making of this new Rules of Procedure, but also since the epochal speech of the President-in-Office of the Council, Heinrich Neisser, of 1986. You can only give Heinrich Neisser right again and again and say: The majority is driving over it! Mr President. It is unfortunate that you belong to this majority today, and unfortunately you are always in the "overrun" again and again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing I have to do right now to save the President of the Council of Ministers. Add the following to the news: In any case, it was he who announced a few days ago that what the government has meant in the decision-making of the pension reform was a single advantage to Parliament. He literally said: We have reached the limit of what we can expect of the opposition, especially as regards timely information. – And Mr President Neisser then warned against it and said that democracy could not continue in this way. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I regret that now Mr President Dr. Fischer is not present in the plenary room, because I would have liked him to make it clear today in this debate why he is watching when a consultation mechanism undermines the rights of this Parliament, why he is watching when, according to the words of the Second President Neisser, the opposition of this House, i.e. control force, such a procedure is implied by the government, as it has been in the past few weeks. I would like to know by Mr Fischer what he thinks is going to be an executive burden in future of the entire budgetary sovereignty, that in future the entire budgetary sovereignty will be transferred to the national conference and to a so-called consultation body. I would like to know from Mr Fischer what he has to say, as the first President of this House, that the majority of this House still refuses any parliamentary control. – No word can be heard from him! We hear only one or other careful comment from the Second President, Dr. Neisser, while the first president in the role of the Magistrate Wauwaus, the Arbitr elegantiarum, the Ordinary Officer in one or another Verbalin jury. – As if this were the main problem of this Parliament! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the Austrian People's Party! They want to decide, I have heard, that the government is willing to run through this – that, first of all, one will give the municipal government and the municipal government, thus associations of the legal quality of a beekeeping and beekeeping association, in the future, the state treaty capacity so that they can, together with the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Government and the national leaders, draw the budget sovereignty. That is to say, any request we make in Parliament that would have a financial consequence for a municipality or a federal state may in future be brought down by the federal state concerned or by the municipal government or by the municipal government. Constitutional complaint: You, ladies and gentlemen, should think about this competence. – Mr Puttinger! You have a substantial contribution? - No, you don't have one. They're waving. I would also like to ask you, Mr Puttinger, to preserve the Silent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you don't have a contribution, you'll keep Silent and theirs from the things that are written down! It is stated here that the consultation body will adopt the financial compensation legislation in the future. Mrs Obfraud of the Committee on Justice! What do you say as a parliamentarian? . No longer this Parliament will have the financial compensation legislation in the future, as Parliament's greatest competence, no, in the future, the financial compensation legislation will be found in a nebulous consultation body – if all this is to become a law, and you want to make it a constitutional law. They want Parliament to have the right, even in the future, to regulate financial compensation independently and exclusively. Skill They explain it to anyone else in this house, step in and say: We protect Parliament's rights!Unknown term type: "%s".? – President Fischer conceals himself when a law of the law-making body is circumscribed after another. I can't do this anymore, and I would like President Fischer to finally find clear words on this before he re-enforces himself to become a major constituency officer in the field of verbal jury. – Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Are you for Vorarlberg?]] High house! These are the crucial things! Mrs Fekter! Explain What role will the Federal Council have to play in the future, these 66 policy-makers if they are replaced by the national leaders in the future? – The national conference is to take over the task of safeguarding the rights of the countries in the future, not the Federal Council. Then what do we need him for? – Let's send his members home, let's fix him! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: So you're against a state reform, against Vorarlberg? They want everything designed in Vienna!]] I am not just opposed to a state reform, but I would have liked the Austrian People's Party not to be so full of its mouth before accession to the EU, but to have the courage to decide on it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At that time, she left the Federal Council with the courage to bring this accompanying law down when you had the last opportunity to reform the state. Mrs Fekter! Go control in your own ranks and see how brave your own people are when it comes to defending the rights of the countries! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] They are only involved when it comes to safeguarding chamber interests and cutting Parliament's rights. Then you'll be there. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's inconclusive! That's what you're talking about!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, an example of how the rights of Parliament and its subordinate bodies will be cut down: no word from the Presidium, which is the result of the public prosecutor's upgrading. The People's Procuratorate has been writing concerns in her reports for years, writing how their task could be better fulfilled – not a word of it, not even of you. He only speaks for his media promotion on his own. He's not interested in the public prosecutor's office. He is not interested in the concern of citizens to have a functioning public prosecutorship, which can actually bring a norm complaint to the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also no word from President Fischer, quite the contrary, that he has approved the whole thing, that events are taking place in this House, in which quite clearly Laws are disregarded, for example, when the employees of the house for the equipment and the organisation of a round-table conversation on the subject of "prostitution as employment work?" Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was a club event! That was a club event!]] No, that wasn't a club event! This event took place in the local IV, accessible via the entrance gate 4, which is the entrance gate of the Socialists, organized by the Liberal Forum, the Greens and the Socialists! On the panel Mr Jarolim was sitting by the Socialists. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: What is your problem with this? What's your problem?]] I would just like to remind you which theater the same president made when our clubman wanted to present a book written by him himself. He did not want to give this to Parliament, but for events that concern something that obviously violates laws – I hope you will agree with me that prostitution is still illegal – Parliament is standing and must be available to the officials of this House at any time. [[Abg. Oellinger: We are not in Vorarlberg, Mr Stadler! We're not in Vorarlberg!]] No, but if you didn't notice. It is not permitted to proceed with prostitution throughout Austria. Or do you want to change that? [[Abg. Oils: Yes! Yes!]] They want to change it, I can imagine that, but we don't want to change it. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that prostitution in the whole of Austria is a banned activity, called 'commercial fornication', Mr Ollinger! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Don't be so bizarre! Oh, my God, you're big!]] I would then like to separate what is to be understood in detail by "commercial fornication". They're doing events about how to do it legally. Make as many events as you want: I am excited that this President is making himself a constituency of this House and allows for illegal events on the other hand. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Open a sex criminal debate!]] It is thus systematically undermined by Parliament's own duties and reputation, and by those who are constantly pretending to want to protect this reputation. Ladies and gentlemen! In any event, I would like to thank you once again, Mr Neisser, for finding every now and then a little courage to support the rights of this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4677	The next speaker is Mr Otmar Brix. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4701	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! At the meetings of the Committee on Budgets last year, we discussed a large number of good quality reports. There were, of course, many positive but also negative reports. I just remember that, for example, the report on the ÖIAG, but also on the ORF, was positive. A negative report with many shortcomings was the one on old-age rehabilitation. In contrast to the re-examinations made by Mr Stadler to the Republic in very similar words, I would like to say that a reflection of this Republic was shown in the Court of Auditors' report, which is that the House of Austria is generally very well ordered. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, we also have some comments to make from our side. It is a pity that the President of the Court of Auditors cannot be present today and is apologised because he is at a very important meeting because I would have liked to tell him that there is still a very big problem for us, which is the publication of raw reports. I am thinking only of the very specific presentation of a raw report before the Landtag elections in Upper Austria, when it was conceded at once, how important Lambbach is, of how quickly an uncompleted report went out. We, the Members of all the political groups in this House, had no opportunity to comment on this. A proposal on the part of my group would therefore be that, if there are already raw reports, for whatever reason, all the groups in this House will be confronted with these raw reports, that they are all available for us to consult. We set up the Standing Subcommittee for the first time last year and discussed a very important issue, namely the procurement of the Austrian federal army. If Mr Stadler criticises this, I would like to ask him to help that the colleague who is chairing the Standing Subcommittee be made more familiar with the Rules of Procedure so that more efficient work can be done in order not always to be discussed in advance on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! That's unfair!]] One thing you also have to say: The Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors is dealing with the Court of Auditors' report and is not a committee of inquiry, however requested by the opposition. There we have to discuss the paper presented by the Court of Auditors. This is the topic of discussion, and not an in-depth investigation – even if there is no political scandal at all, as was the case in the field of procurement. It is not possible to simply try to bring in a scandal. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to say, as I said earlier, that there has always been a very high-quality report from the Court of Auditors, thanks to my group, to all the employees in the Court of Auditors who have contributed to the fact that there have been good and proper reports. Allow me to make a second statement. The Socialist Group also believes that those officials who work in the Court of Auditors should continue to be on the agenda of Pragmatization to ensure the protection of officials there is a Pragmatization. In this context, however, the Socialist Group calls not only for the Pragmatization and thus for the under-protection position of officials there, but also for an objective of post-contracting. I believe that even when the Court of Auditors is in office, there must be more objectivity than it has already been given. Finally, it can only be found that the Court of Auditors report is often highly emotionalised. We should not be too emotional about this, but we should discuss it on the basis of that report that is being presented.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4739	The next item is Mrs Schaffenrath's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4760	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! It is important for me to look at the comments made by the Minister for Women and to comment on women's issues in general, to highlight briefly the comments made by Mr Bauer of the EIA. Thankfully, she acknowledged that women's policy was a cross-sectional matter, but also said that, naturally, the greater part of women's policy must fall in the social policy field. This is a confirmation of the state of equal treatment for women in social reality, namely that it still needs special social care, special protection, because, because of lack of framework conditions, genuine equality in social reality has unfortunately been denied. Something else was linguistically interesting: that even women from "goodly-dominated marriages" could also get into the risk of poverty at the age. This is a very clear sign to us that all those women who lend their whole ear to the family policy of the ÖVP, who trust in social security over a marriage, must almost necessarily fall into poverty traps. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! You have announced a lot of initiatives at your accession conference. I've got your OTS message here from 12. At the time of February, you said that every labour market offensive should also consider the problem of women, that it would be particularly difficult for women in the labour market and that you would therefore want to get involved in all the government's labour market offensives. You wanted to evaluate the equal treatment package so as to be able to formulate the next stage objectives. They complain of the unemployment rate which is rising disproportionately in women. They call for action in the field of education and training and aim to speed up the implementation of planned projects, such as EU-funded projects. They wanted the campaign of their predecessor "daughters can do more!" review, re-implement the information material and extend it by new areas. They have also identified the problem of the relatively few fields of work for women. They wanted to think about the night work ban for women and much more. You have today given a summary of your previous activities to Mr Kammerlander. I think this is embarrassing for a woman's minister, who should put her political weight on women's scales. She says that you would have distributed information about women's policy concerns in the media, even last week you would have spent a whole day together with women's representatives and would also be planning a trip through Austria. In my opinion, this is a very unfortunate summary. Unfortunately, I must tell you that I am missing real activities, a real commitment for women, a real implementation, an approach to problems in most areas. They also said that you would like to proceed more clearly and structuredly in the future, but you should wait for the equal treatment attorneyship we hope will come from 1998. Please read the report of the equal treatment lawyer! You get enough information about the East-West gap in the field of consultation, you get enough information about why regionalisation in all federal states has to be done immediately, especially in times when the situation on the labour market is intensifying for women in which women are sent back to the herd, in which the only way to ensure fair access for women to work and a half-way fair chance for higher-qualified employment is to be achieved. There you don't need to wait anymore, to do that you should present a concept! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! You have not responded to the demands of women's popular desire in your speech. The initiators of the Women's People's Desire appreciate your attitude, too, they say: "From beautiful words, women won't be full." In any case, you have not met the expectations of 640 000 women in these areas. I miss your political priorities in most areas. I would like to ask you again: Where To Have Are you making a specific contribution to this budget for women? Where do you have at this budget? Is her political weight thrown into the balance as a women's minister in cross-sectional arteries? So far, where have you actually implemented one of your announcements – beyond the prospectus distribution? – I cannot see any real approaches to improving the situation of women. There is nothing that has at least mitigated the already so difficult situation of women, intensified by the savings packages I and II. There may be a positive point: I think the opening of the Women's Business Center is an important step, as it is a matter of facilitating women's entry into self-employment, but that's not your "child". The preliminary work on this has been done by your predecessor, Mrs Konrad, and in this case she – I would like to say almost the result – is entitled to the success of this work. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Your Handwriting for Women In any case, they do not leave them in connection with the pension reform. If in about the only approach is that the accounting of amounts for child care is now 7 880 S – you had brought 8 100 S into the discussion one month before – then I must say: That's little! In any case, this will not be the case for women in the field of equal pay. They are with a share of 72 percent of the much larger part. They have truly failed to become an initiative for all women in this framework for an insurance obligation, for an independent social security scheme for all women. You could have presented at least a real discussion model. There have already been very concrete preparatory work by your predecessor in the field of pension division – I know that was not your model – in the field of care compensation. There you are today – I must tell you – not as far as your predecessor has been about nine months ago. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Continue to stick to the principle of co-insurance – your colleague, Hostasch, said that this would be an essential criterion of family policy – will always prove to be a boomerang for women. As long as women are dependent on husband or solely on employment in their social security scheme, you cannot find a solution under this so-called pension reform for women. That's where you need new approaches, a completely different way of thinking. I would like to invite you to discuss our basic security in detail in this context too. This is a milestone in women's policy. This will ensure social security, the basic existential security, also of women, regardless of employment or marriage. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We still have the situation that about 430 000 women do not have their own pension entitlement at all. We have the situation that, although 350 000 women have their own pension entitlement, this is only 7 200 s on average. And even if women have an independent claim and receive widow's pension, they only come to the average pension level of men. It shows quite clearly: Women's problems cannot be resolved under this pension scheme. However, this pension system with the total repairs carried out will not be able to ensure pension for all other workers in the future. They have now included minor employees in the social security obligation. This is also not a solution for these women. Those women who work in small employment are in very difficult financial situations. The voluntary nature of the insurance does not stand for these women. You can simply and simply not afford to pay this voluntary insurance contribution. Therefore, the social inclusion of minor employees is actually reduced, I would like to say that rather provocative a little behind-the-spot rehabilitation in this area. She won't benefit women. A labour cost-increasing measure is hereby adopted, but it does not make it possible for women to be protected. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, the new figures relating to poverty here in Austria have again made it clear that single parents are disproportionately affected, as are women in rural regions, where there is in particular a great lack of childcare facilities. Mrs. Minister! If you say here today that you just have to take the countries to duty, you have done a lot with 600 million schillings, I would like to remind you all: These 600 million schillings of the federal government for childcare were a comfort pavement according to the really terrifying results of the savings packages I and II for women. It should have been one billion. With this 600 million schilling, the federal government does not only finance the establishment of childcare facilities. The countries will have to make their contribution anyway. I really urge you to make at least one hundred million schillings remain open. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Kammerlander has already said: 140 000 childcare facilities are missing and 10,000 have now been created. I do not want to say that we still have a drastic undersupply of the children under 2 to 3 years of age, which, of course, affects the single parents to a special extent, since the time of leave for these women has been de facto reduced to a year and a half. I also miss out on your side to promote private initiatives in the field of childcare, in order to create framework conditions that give self-organized groups of children equal opportunities. This goes to the possibility of tax deduction of costs for childcare. As regards the operational kindergarten in the Federal Chancellery: The children there really have my greatest goodwill. I give them an optimal care. But if I imagine what privilege is created for 20 to 30 children and what price, then I ask you why, for example, when it comes to setting up farm kindergartens in other areas, you miss any initiative. Unfortunately – good for the children, but "sufferer" for the situation of women in Austria – this operational kindergarten receives much more money than all the women's projects in Austria as a whole. That's how it's in your budget! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! As you have referred to the education and training offensive, which is so urgently needed for women, I must say: In Austria, we still have shamed discrimination in the field of education of women compared to men. We have, as you have rightly said, a narrower career choice among girls, which leads women to find themselves, in particular, in less likely and less paid professional fields. But the distribution of information material such as "daughters can do more!" or the announcement of a girl class in the HTL in the spengergasse is not enough. You really have to take initiatives. There are enough dedicated women who are employed in schools and who, by their own initiative, have already prepared all the results you have to do with. I would really like you to finally set up activities here with the Minister for Education. There are no initiatives in teacher training. There is no clear demand from your side for girls and boys in schools. It would certainly be worthwhile to work together with the Minister of Education on equal treatment, gender equality in the educational and teaching tasks of the individual subjects of education in all schools and at all levels of school, because a principle of gender equality remains left to schools of popularity and commitment of individual teachers and will not significantly improve the situation. In Austria – on this issue I can keep short my remarks, because Mr Kammerlander has already pointed this out – we have highly successful women's projects and women's advisory services in broad areas. The women's projects, especially those in the field of qualification, are really systematically starved and horrified, I would like to say, taken over from the labour market service. Long-term financing is not guaranteed for them. I doubt the quality of the labour market service here when it comes to genuine consultation between women and women. I say: The labour market service does not comply with its legal mandate to combat discrimination against women in the labour market. I don't even wonder. The educational institutions with which the AMS works almost exclusively and with which joint EU projects are carried out are socially dominant and, unfortunately, in the social partners in all areas and at all levels, almost all men have the say. I think, Mrs Minister, that you should put your political weight in the balance, so to speak, you should not be content with simply continuing to accept what is given. Why Demand You don't have any more skills? Why Demand Do you not have the competence to co-finance women's projects, for example, so that you can make sure that other women's projects also have opportunities that other women's projects do not suffocate in a bureaucratic funding jungle that their problems in the area of pre-financing, financing, time-limitation are eliminated? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Time is getting shorter. – I ask you, Mrs Minister: What happened to your demand for half a technology billion for women? I ask you: What has been done so far in connection with the proposed amendment to the Equal Treatment Act, so that the Equal Treatment Commission can not only have an advisory and recommendive function, but can finally also be affected? I would ask you finally to complete your reflection phase in connection with night work. Please don't hang, I almost want to say, on the union's cutbacks! Create You do this anti-productive protection law for women! This has already lost many jobs. Mrs Hlavac! I'll give you the right to: There is much to do in the area of women. There would have been a lot to do for a long time. The last Lassnig study shows once again that it will take another 100 years for women to be equal when we continue at this rate. Mrs. Minister! I just expect more from you than sending out postcards to raise women's sensitivity. Please use the studies commissioned by the former Minister Dohnal! They cost a lot of money. They will provide you with clear and clear information on where action needs to be taken. I am really trying to get you to work as a woman minister here at last.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4920	Mrs Dr. Fekter has reported an actual correction. - Please, you have the floor. Start with the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4945	I am bringing an actual correction to the current legal situation for prostitution. Mr Stadler has here repeatedly argued that prostitution would be punishable and in Austria industrial fornication is forbidden. That's wrong. The right thing is: Prohibitions are the receptacle. According to the Criminal Code, the introduction of a woman into industrial fornication is also punishable. Commercial fornication itself is not a criminal offence, nor is advertising it. Without prejudice to this, however, there are provisions of national law governing prostitution.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4980	Mr Morak has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5002	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to both budget chapters, it should be noted that the approaches have been continuously frozen at the 1997 level. As welcome as it is that there has been no change in the field of art and culture, it is surprising that no emphasis has been made on the budget. This gives the impression of an art-political stagnation. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But not the impression!]] Everyone puts it differently, I'm very determined. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is particularly evident in the field of filming and is thus in stark contradiction with the one of Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate public announcements to want to implement an effective increase in funding for the film in parallel with the revision of the Film Promotion Act. The second emphasis of the Federal Chancellor was on architecture. Allow me to comment briefly on these points. In principle, both demands are correct. I come first to talk to the movie. With its many possibilities of exploitation, the film is an ideal medium of image transfer and identity transfer, resulting from the almost infinite program needs of various most diverse organizers. From the special historical situation – I refer here to the ORF and the monopoly of the ORF – there are only the species of the order producer, which are producers who earn their money by getting money from the ORF for many years to process a production, then not to sell it with profit, to maintain and establish international links in the film business, to conclude contracts with distributors and so on. Secondly, Film promotion was always the stepchild in the art budget. On the one hand, one does not give the film the tax possibilities through writing-off models, but rather regulates this by means of transfer models. When we make a comparison: The Bundestheater takes 2.4 billion Schilling net, the ÖFI, the Film Funding Institute, 105 million Schilling. – This to the disparity and value that we assign to the film. The fact that, despite the priorities announced by the Federal Chancellor, there has been no change in the budget approach in the medium term is unfortunate. Mr Bundeskanzler said that there were 200 million Schilling reserves in the Committee. I did this, and they told me that was in the realm of myths and legends. Nevertheless: There is also a positive message about this. Today the Film Promotion Act has been passed by the Council of Ministers. I believe that this is a good new approach to this issue. It's a first step. The negotiations, I believe, have been very constructive and very positive. We have tried very hard to bring in our ideas on this. The second point is architecture. I think we also had a survey here in Parliament on architecture. The Federal Chancellor said that this was a priority issue. I don't think it's enough if you just say that you should let it follow. I could imagine that there is a center or a clearing point for architecture – similar to what is available in Vienna with the architectural center, help on site almost. As architects believe, not only should the mayors be appealed to because they are the first building agency, but they must also be given the opportunity to provide advice and assistance at this difficult time when people are becoming increasingly difficult to access to architecture. This could be an initiative of the federal government. Secondly, a measure to strengthen the perception of the building authority. This was often assembled at this survey. This means that the architects must find themselves in the confusion, in the jungle of the various competences of the project managers, the Facility Managers and the construction developers. All together resolve the responsibilities and responsibilities. There's no more builders. With the architect – according to the architects – the architect could also disappear and with the architect the architecture. Thirdly, We have major copyright deficits in our country. Architecture also has something to do with copyright. This is linked to the fact that our appreciation for original intellectual and creative achievements does not seem to be very pronounced. We rate the make-up with houses higher than the planning of houses. We evaluate construction supervision higher than inventing the building. This is easy to read when you move through the landscape and critically look at the installed terrain. You'll know for yourself what I mean by that. That we are not alone in Europe is also clear. About 5 percent of the converted environment is designed by architects. I think there is a real need for an initiative here and it needs more than just an announcement. Federal Chancellor! You owe this country an essential and existential discourse on architecture if architecture is really a priority for you: What is architecture for you? How do we create an awareness of architecture in the population? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5046	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5068	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mein Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr. Volksanwalt is likely to eat now. The Federal Minister will also come back. The only one that is really missing is the Federal Chancellor, which I particularly regret, especially since the discussions in the Committee on Budgets are always very short and therefore have very bundled issues. We have never gone beyond a question to him and his answer to it. I always believe that in plenary there will be time to deal intensively with him, but that is not the case. In my speech, I first devote myself to an initiative that has nothing to do with the Federal Chancellor directly, but indirectly, very much. We owe this initiative to dedicated citizens of this country. I myself have also been working some time ago to create a commemorative day in Austria for the victims of National Socialism. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This initiative has now been taken up by the President of the National Council Dr. Fischer. It has contacted all five political groups in the course of the preliminary work on the budget chapter, and has reached agreement that the budget chapter now under discussion is to bring in a resolution which provides for the introduction of a commemorative day for the victims of National Socialism in Austria. I would like to thank him sincerely for this initiative, and I would like to thank him for taking seriously what citizens of this country want, which also offer suggestions to the National Council. Not least, I would like to thank him because he understands something that foreign examples already have. In the Federal Republic of Germany, at the initiative of the Federal President Roman Herzog, an annual commemorative day for the victims of National Socialism – there he is called "Auschwitz Memorial Day", which has already been celebrated this year for the second time. ==References====External links== May 1998 this commemorative day will be carried for the first time. I do not want to read the resolution in question now because you can find it in the supplements to the current deliberations. I believe that this resolution is far more important than the short, short sentences in this motion at all. For I see this resolution and the commemorative day as a very great opportunity for the Republic of Austria, our own consciousness and that of our descendants to record in our memory of the victims the inconspicuous crimes that have occurred during the Nazi period. In conjunction with an annual commemorative day, this seems to me to be particularly good and efficient. A day against oblivion! Ladies and gentlemen! This is important at a time when the generations who have had personal experiences with National Socialism are gradually dying out – I believe that we should first and foremost deal with the second, third and subsequent generations, and also become – in which fewer and fewer witnesses of the time can personally reflect and carry on the suffering and horror that have happened to them. That is precisely why this commemorative day is so important. After the war, many Austrians have faced this commemoration in a way that they either have been entitled or have not been entitled to see or feel as a victim and have not dealt with Austria's co-responsibilities in the horrors of National Socialism. Ladies and gentlemen! They all know quite well that only recently in Austria did the awareness that the proportion of Austrian perpetrators in the Nazi mass murder was above average, that Austrians did not act out of the second series, but were often the most important drivers and operators of machine mass murder; Austrians – not anyone far away, but people from our surroundings. It is also this consciousness that should further underline and further create this NS sacrifice memory day. A second aspect of this commemorative day is particularly important to me: Humanist ideology, so embedded in political action, does not develop from one day to another. It develops gradually; at the beginning it is hardly observed, because for some it is not yet estimated from the effects. These are primarily the experiences of the Austrians, whom we have done with the Nazi era, and that is what we have to pass on to future generations, namely the high vigilance and insight into the fundamental legibility of every human being. We must not take the view that we have to resist only if we are personally affected by human rights violations or such acts, but we, as the national Council's representative, must already know, combat and defend the development of undemocratic, racist, nationalist and humanist attitudes in the beginnings. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I hope that this commemoration day for the victims of nationalism against violence and racism can create a formal prerequisite for these activities, that it is precisely common to remember – it cannot be said often enough – that millions of times murders of Jews, Roma and Sinti, resistance fighters and other sections of the population persecuted by National Socialism are more important than ever before; above all, because the events have been so long past. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that we are living in a country that has two pasts to deal with, as I regret it, the past of National Socialism on the one hand and the past of the continued humiliation of the victims in the Second Republic on the other. We should not close our eyes before that! If this commemorative day can be a very small contribution to the fact that every year these two responsibilities – on the one hand the responsibility for co-responsibility and on the other hand the responsibility for the banishment and oblivion of the victims – are remembered that this also has an end – I see this commemorative day as an essential active step of the Republic – then this other attitude towards the victims – first and foremost – which we want to pass on to our children and subsequent generations, is a step to free us from this mortgage of co-responsibility. That's what I'm talking about. I would now like to thank all those who have been initiative during the introduction of this commemorative day and very much hope for a truly worthy form of the design of this first commemorative day next year. This makes me the second point of my current remarks. This is the point that really has to do with the budget – not with Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer, but I have to look at her now because no one else is on the government bank – the promotion of groups. We've been to the 2nd last week. Budgetary accompanying law on what this means for the promotion of groups in Austria. I therefore repeat this very much today, because I would like to make two more amendments. The first amendment relates to the promotion of publicity. The law on this has been changed last week. After the law was passed with the votes of the majority of coalitions, by coalition politicians, – and primarily by Dr. Khol – it has been stated to the public, but also in letters to organizations, that this law has no effect on the promotion of the groups at all. It has always been said that this is not a restriction on the promotion of groups, because only one pot refers to another. That is why, Dr. Khol, in the consistent reflection of your logic – I am very much in favour of this logic – I am putting forward an amendment which would also bring this to a logical conclusion in budgetary, numerical and financial terms for the groups of peoples. The logic can only be the following: If there is no longer any opportunity to obtain subsidies and support from this budget pot, i.e. from the support of the public sector, this money must be obtained elsewhere, and this has even been stressed in a committee statement, and financial provision must be made elsewhere. We need this decision, ladies and gentlemen. I hope, above all, for your approval; and there it is the praise of the clubman of a whole group. That is why it is simply because his word in the Group should be an example for everyone. The Socialists will certainly not accept the following amendment – I do not appreciate you – and therefore I would ask you to approve. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is the consistent fixation of the logic of non-minority-indulgence in politics, because anti-minority action would be to exclude public-group publications from the promotion of publicity. This change will allow groups of organisations and associations, who wish to publish bilingual or linguistically in national languages, to obtain this money in the context of this special summit from the funding of groups. – This is the first amendment. Ladies and gentlemen! The second amendment is a particularly important one for the Austrian ethnic groups and for the media-political presentation of the Austrian ethnic groups. You know that these days will be the decisions of the Regional Radio Authority regarding frequency allocations based on the Regional Radio Act. We already know that, as a result of the negotiations concluded between the various radio operators, it will be ensured that, from 1998 onwards, both in Burgenland and in Carinthia, a private radio will take up the broadcasting operation, which will offer a very significant proportion of its programme in a minority language. In Carinthia, this is done in Slovenian, in Burgenland in Croatian and Hungarian and also in Romani, the language of the Burgenian Roma. Due to the particular situation of the minorities in Austria, in particular the peripheral spatial distributions, but also due to the economic and structural weaknesses, especially in the settlement areas where groups of people live, where these radio programmes are operated, these providers will not be able to work cost-effectively for minority programmes. However, in order to comply with the legal obligation that exists under the State Treaty, but also under the People's Group Law – the Federation is called to do so – appropriate funds are to be provided under the funding of the Groups. However, this is not the case in the 1998 budget. I wonder, How to comply with international agreements that have legal status in Austria – they have long been signed –? In this, we have explicitly committed ourselves to something, in the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. It is stated in Section 11 that the establishment of at least one radio station in regional or minority languages is committed to the promotion of the languages and the ethnic groups. The promotion when it comes to money, so to speak, in the spirit, if it costs nothing, is cheap. But when it comes to inducing this spirit, spirit in the form of financial support for private or local radio operators, there is no initiative. That is why my amendment on additional financing needs, which will be necessary for continuous media supply, particularly in relation to the high investment costs which are at the outset. I believe that this need can only be met by increasing the promotion of groups of people, for otherwise it was said that in the past group support, which will not be increased anyway, although wage costs are rising, everything becomes more expensive, everything remains with the old. It is the first time that these frozen subsidies have to be left untouched and that they have to create their own posts for media supply. This is the content of my second amendment: The estimate approach 10506 People's Funding is supplemented by...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5226	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Rules of Procedure require you to read amendments. In other words, you must present the text as you presented it here; unfortunately, a free speech is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5256	I'll read him that way. [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If the promotion of ethnic groups and minorities should not be empty words, especially if the media supply – that is part of Austrian media policy – is not just an empty, unaudible word when it comes to radio, then radio operators need this money. You need your support by providing a corresponding amount. I ask you for this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5322	The two amendments tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stoisits have read, are sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5346	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to make a brief comment on the motion for a resolution of all five parliamentary parties on the creation of a day of commemoration against violence and racism in memory of the victims of National Socialism, on the Nazi Sacrifice Memorial, to which my previous speaker, Mr Stoisits, has already spoken, and at the same time thank you for having come to this joint resolution. The year 1997 is the European Year against Racism and Xenophobia. Austria is also a sign of this. I think this is important because the witnesses are getting less and less. ==References== May, the anniversary of the liberation of the Mauthausen concentration camp, built in 1938, where prisoners from many European countries were detained for racist and political reasons and religiously persecuted, is a camp with a total of 100,000 murdered, I think, the right memorial to celebrate such a commemorative day. In this context, I would also like to stress that it is gratifying that the National Fund of the Republic of Austria has already made some 17 000 disbursements for the victims of National Socialism as a whole and that it will finish its work in 1999. This commemorative day will give an opportunity to commemorate the victims of National Socialism at schools and universities, the federal army, civil service, countries, communities and other local authorities. I believe that this is an important initiative. I would also like to acknowledge that the FPÖ has joined this proposal and also to clarify its own positions. Of course, it has not been done with moralisation and commemoration alone, then such a day would have had no meaning because anti-Semitism, racism, xenophobia and nationalist violence did not end with Hitler. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Anti-Semitism is not a specific, isolated phenomenon! The monster is that these acts were committed by average people and as part of an ideological system. This is true in view of the events in the area of former Yugoslavia. The decisive thing is what people really think and say! This saying and thinking largely depend on the spiritual climate in which people live. If this climate changes, one changes faster, the other adapts slowly, a third in turn is resistant to such seductions. If anti-democratic propaganda is growing noticeably and the collective spirit of time is changing, it is said to be watchful! I think that's important. Any form of fascism, if it is to be successful as a political movement, must have a basis among the masses. On the one hand, there needs to be a climate of fear and, on the other, a climate of subordination! Therefore, he must appeal primarily to emotional needs and to the most primitive and irrational desires and fears. The memory of the victims of National Socialism therefore includes the critical analysis of the present situation. Foreign people's desire, xenophobia and xenophobia, the position towards minorities are clear indicators of a change in sensitivity. Mr Gaugg, who is sitting in this hall, who has gained his awareness of the fact that he has spelled out "Nazi" with "new, attractive, determined and imaginative" is a clear indicator of the changed sensitivity in this country! [[Abg. Gaugg: Cumulator! Super cashier!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Your only performance is to disassemble!]] [[Abg. Koppler: That's not as bad as that!]] Mr Gaugg is also a clear indicator of the alertness that this country needs, as well as of the fact that it is good that there is this commemorative day, because we can always remember it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Since the powerful economic interest groups want to have nothing to do with anti-democratic propaganda and such people anyway, I am quite confident and optimistic about what the nearer future will be. [[Abg. Young: Continue to be an optimist!]] Nevertheless, constant vigilance is appropriate to the word, to the inviolable and untold Lord Gaugg and to his ideology and family. [[Abg. Gaugg: Abkassier! Your time has expired!]] [[Abg. Young: 41 percent!]] This holocaust commemorative day can make a small contribution to this, because it is not only about Mauthausen and those crimes that have passed away and not concern our generation, but also about the foreign people's desire and about such inexorable people as Mr Gaugg, the Nazi book-stabler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5485	Mr Lammer has been reported to speak. [[Abg. Young: The Carinthian SPÖ survey values say everything!]] [[Abg. Koppler: Let yourself be surprised!]] [[Abg. Boy: The "good man" Posch cashed!]] 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5541	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Posch, if you say that our colleague Gaugg has only become so famous, that is your problem. But we also know how you came to fame: They had the front page of the "Kronen Zeitung" for disbursing, which is for disbursing in jobs where the question arises whether you could ever work as much as you have collected. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now back to the actual debate. The Supreme Institutions have still not been mentioned quite much in today's debate. It concerns mainly the Administrative Court, the Constitutional Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Auditors. The activities of these top institutions of our Republic must be particularly highlighted, as they also help those citizens who live and live in Austria to their right and are therefore absolutely necessary. However, a number of criticisms must also be mentioned, for example in the area of the Constitutional Court. A study shows that the open residue in respect of the files to be dealt with in 1996 has grown to 13 182! The President of the Constitutional Court, Professor Adamovich, also finds a "paralysis" of the Court of Justice! This is very much to be thought of as this situation is due to a flood of complaints which cannot, of course, be dealt with with with with with with with the existing resources. The same applies to the Administrative Court in so far as there was arrears of 13,638 open files in 1996. The Administrative Court, in its discharge, requests the establishment of national administrative courts. Ladies and gentlemen! We must now ask ourselves the question of the reason for this flood of complaints. Has the Austrian become more complaining or complaining? - No, I'm sure not! However, this government has created laws that force the Austrians to turn to these institutions if they ever want to get to their right. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You should consider this in the future if you decide laws! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's also a word for the People's Procuratorate. The People's Procuratorate was founded exactly 20 years ago after a very long trial and preparation period. This control unit promoted the dynamic development of the democratic and rule-of-law system in our country. The establishment of the People's Procuratorate was adopted by the population and in recent years it has not only secured the trust of the complainants. However, there is also problem areas and control deficits from the public prosecutors' investigation work – you have read the People's Procuratorate's Report, which would require a change in legal regulations and framework conditions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Such measures are also included in the People's Procuratorate's Report in 1996. In addition to claims such as the extension of the control competence of the distributed legal entities, similar to those of the Court of Auditors, or the inclusion of a period of four weeks for the authorities to provide the necessary information, the following amendments are considered, inter alia, absolutely necessary to ensure that the activities of the public prosecutor are not reduced: Presentation of the activity reports to the National Council and the Federal Council – absolutely important! – as well as the participation of the public prosecutor in the negotiations of the committees concerned with him. Why should the People's Procuratorate not be able to participate in it? This would help to make the work already high-quality available to Parliament even better. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate, I would like to have a motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Introduce Stadler, Laber and colleagues in connection with the "harmonization" of pension systems. Last week, the National Council adopted the accompanying laws, as you call it, "harmonization" of pension systems, which mainly affected the employees in the public service and the ASVG staff. Which areas have been excluded from this scheme, by which the employees of the public service, mainly executive officials and ASVG workers have to expect sensitive losses in the pension? – the politicians, whose privileges were not abolished, but also other protected areas, such as the Austrian Bundesbahnen, the Austrian National Bank, the social insurance companies and the chambers, were excluded. They have successfully defended their pension privileges so far. One could now read in the media in recent days that the ÖBB could be controversial if this provision is really boycotted by the ÖVP in the Federal Council – it is supposed to do so unless agreement is reached with the ÖBB. [[Abg. Brix: Go out to the railways!]] This particularly protected privilege paradise can also be found in the area of chambers and social security schemes, whose officials each enjoy the benefits of the service law of the private sector and of that of an official relationship. For example, treatment claims, which often go beyond the regulations of the Employment Act, are common, while pension schemes are based on the public service. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have already discussed this in the context of a urgent request on Friday. That is why I now put to the motion for a resolution with the following substance: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Please also agree to a request from the liberals! Then you would be on the path of improvement – otherwise not!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5630	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Posch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5662	As for my predecessor's defamatory statements and the calls of the "Nazi" bookmaker Gaugg, I inform you that these accusations were part of a media campaign of the "Kronen Zeitung". The "Kronen Zeitung" was legally sentenced to this and has now had to withdraw all accusations. [[Abg. Gaugg: In Carinthia you are taken from SPÖ under conservation!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5735	Mr Donabauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5756	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! With reference to Mr Lafer's kind invitation, I should like to say that we would like to agree to this request if it had substance and meaning. We do not agree with this, just to create a complex of envy, and that is why we do not agree with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A budget debate – no matter where it takes place: whether in municipalities, countries or in the federal government – always offers the possibility of critical considerations, but also represents an exchange of views between government and opposition. It is about making a balance of interests – and this is possible when there are clear objectives and targets. I believe that this Federal Government has set a clear target, namely to reduce the end of the process, which we have fully agreed with, and to set employment policy impulses. If we do not, we have no employment, no jobs, and then we cannot meet the budget targets under any circumstances. Since we do not want to, we will have to continue to work in this direction. This is why we have tried to do this because we believe that savings measures are necessary today in order to enable young people to continue to be able to do so in the future. It makes no sense to use everything today, but to be in the corner tomorrow, so to speak. Measures are reasonable, important and correct and must be put in place in a timely manner. Budgetary outturns are phenomena of our time. They are recognizable in all states, and it is also noted that there is an effort everywhere to make corrections. This Federal Government has clearly stated its budgetary objectives in 1996 and 1997. We have achieved these objectives, and we will continue to work on a goal-oriented basis in 1998 and 1999. Last week we passed the accompanying laws: the structural adjustment law and the social law amendment laws. We have also made it clear where change is to be achieved. In addition to these other measures, the number of posts is certainly an essential issue where an important measure would have to be taken. In this respect, there is a huge amount of effort. I can understand that there is criticism. Interesting, this morning by Mr Mag. Trattner: Well, in terms of personnel policy, it's like: There is one of the SPÖ and one of the ÖVP. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] May. Trattner just didn't think that wherever the "F" is in the government, this thing will be enriched, so to speak, to the element "F". [[Call the liberals: Where, please?]] Furthermore, he did not think that perhaps he knew so well that he was unable to access a data in Salzburg, where you misused the data protection law from the "F". [[Contradict with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, this is what you may be annoyed at, of which you are trying to wash yourself today! You won't succeed! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Finally: If this is the special "quality" of your government work, I can only say: Thank you, skinny – no: macaber! Remember that! [[Abg. Gaugg: They're macabers!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Now I would like to turn to the chapter Supreme Institutions, Federal Chancellery and the post-posted departments. Thanks to all the Members of Parliament for the excellent care all year round: from the Stenographical service began to the fire guard. We will be well cared for, and this should also be said here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would now like to turn to the Court of Auditors' task and see that good work is also being done, best done. I think it is necessary, in the Court of Auditors, to maintain Pragmatisation as a protective element for employees. It is only by this that the Court of Auditors can best fulfil its great task of being Parliament's supervisory body. The People's Procuratorate works for the great satisfaction of the citizens, presents their work to Parliament and the citizen in an annual report. I would consider it important – this request goes to the Bureau of the National Council – to discuss these reports shortly after their presentation, so that we can also refer to current perceptions. The overload of the Administrative Court or the Constitutional Court is still dramatic. Although there is a drop in appeal in the Administrative Court, about 9 percent, the number of uncompleted appeals rose by 26 percent in the year under review. The independent administrative Senates have not brought any substantial changes to date; there are criticisms in particular in the area of Vienna. I hope, at least, that we can handle these things properly. In the context of the discussion on the state reform, solutions are to be found in this respect. This can be done either by the establishment of national administrative courts with appropriate competence or by the establishment of a Federal Administrative Court of First Instance. An exclusive solution to the problem of staff increases is also considered by the Bureau to be non-target. As far as the Constitutional Court of Justice is concerned, we hope that it will be permanently relieved of mass proceedings. In fact, last year we decided on an amendment to the Administrative and Constitutional Court Law, according to which a flat rate fee should be paid for inputs. To date, however, there is still no real discharge. I would also like to understand this contribution to the debate, to urge ourselves to take seriously the findings of the Constitutional Court of Justice, even if they may not fully fit into our own political ideas. We should rather work on a common solution, including family taxation, because I believe that this is a very important matter for all of us. We will not only give our support to today's chapters, but also to the entire draft budget, because we are convinced that this will have a positive impact on our country and its citizens. We see ourselves committed to this, and that is why we are going this way.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5849	Mrs Motter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5870	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to take this opportunity – unfortunately I do not see Mrs Prammer on the government bank now, but my words are specifically addressed to you – to deal with genetic engineering, especially with genetically modified foods. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I hope that Mrs Prammer will come back, because this is a subject that, despite various well-known brochures and information campaigns by the Federal Government, is very much insecure to consumers through ever-new horror news in the media. In this context, I should like to draw attention to a previous week's "profile" article, which reads that the government, and in particular the minister responsible for this, are obviously completely overwhelmed. As far as labelling of non-genotechnic foods is concerned, Mrs Prammer gives promises and guarantees, but they then dissolve into air. – Reread in the "profile". In this context, I think it is appropriate to discuss the extensive examinations which Mrs Minister has once again promised and the considerable resources are being lost. Does it make sense to entrust the Federal Food Research and Research Institute to it, although it is known that there is neither sufficient nor appropriately qualified, trained staff? – I think it would be more meaningful to have the tests and checks carried out by well-known experts, such as those in Freiburg, carried out. A question I would like to ask the Minister personally: What does she do about this subject after the accusations in the "profile"? There is already a question by the Social Democrats here in the House, and I too am eager to reply to Mrs Minister's question on this subject. The real scandal, however, is the obvious secrecy of the scientific tests that proved that geneticly modified genetic heritage has been found in supposedly full-biological soya granulate from "accountlled Austrian cultivation". I would ask the Minister not to talk further, and I would like to ask her why she does not finally become offensive. How does it explain to our organic farmers that they are not label-devitors? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Minister of Foreign Affairs is satisfied with promises, although she knows that they are unsustainable. It would have to know that a prior thorough examination of the matter would also show clearly how the food is obtained. I cannot spare the Minister today the accusation that she has held back evidence to hide the bad impression. Or is the Federal Government perhaps afraid of the truth in the face of genetic engineering people's desire with more than a million signatures? Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! The consumer has a right to truth, and he also bears the truth. She's reasonable to him. I admit that this issue is very complex and presents all of us with a difficult task. Because genetic technology is not easy in the food sector, as there is no simple formula, we must not be satisfied with high-gloss brochures that try to put everything into the beautiful light. Our food production is engulfed, and it is often impossible to understand where the ingredients originally came from or who made them. That is what we know, and it must not, therefore, be said that consumers are given the chance to live in a non-genotechnic country. In conclusion: We Liberals demand the complete identification of products as possible, and we want to leave it to the buyer, what he wants to buy or not. We consider it an illusion to think that we could keep the genetic engineering out of Austria – we don't want it at all – and the recent incidents confirm this to us, but consumers have a right to as comprehensive information as possible and the free decision to consume which products – whether they are free from genetic engineering or from genetic engineering – they want to consume. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that in the course of the treatment of genetic engineering people's desire here in Parliament will finally create clear conditions and markings. But above all, I hope that the Federal Government's information policy will change in the direction of greater awareness of responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5942	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5964	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and Mr. Volksanwälten! "What once was real remains possible forever," wrote a Amsterdam rabbi, teacher of Baruch Spinoza, in 16th century. ==History==The inquisition took place in the mid-19th century over the horrors of the Jews. "What was really real remains forever possible," Theodor Adorno recognized in his reflections on Auschwitz – as far as Menasse's touching speech on the occasion of the 1995 Frankfurt Book Fair. This sentence has lost nothing of validity. Who would have suspected that in the Twentieth Enlightened? Century of civilized, cultivated peoples will perform the best-organized genocide of history, with many fellow-patriots, fellow-consuls and seers? If many believe to be able to exclude such horrors for the future, and in favour of finally drawing a conclusion, I must say: This is only possible for those who were not persecuted by themselves or their families. For survivors, the Shoa is part of their lives, their fears for the future. Not fellow perpetrators, co-trailers and walkers suffer from guilt, but the victims – guilty, survived, instead of being cruelly murdered by millions. Ladies and gentlemen! After 1945, he was officially awarded anti-Semitism, so since 1986 he has been a salonist. Personal illiteracy, anti-Semitism and xenophobia are used in politics. "Political opponents are red and black felt blazes that should be fought with blue acid", "a prominent Jew has a place in Jörgl's pipe", "the members of the Waffen-SS are decent people with character, who also stand for their conviction in the face of the greatest winch". All kinds of crimes of the Wehrmacht are generally denied. An Upper Austrian head of state speaks of people "to whom they look at their origin", a vice-bourgeois master of "constituencies of faith who, 2000 years ago, had condemned to death in a show process of Jesus Christ". [[Abg. Grandruck: Well, well! To bring ratfish towards anti-Semitism, that's strong!]] Before 1986, one was more discreet: one poster: "Dr. Josef Klaus – a real Austrian", implying: no Jew like Kreisky. Or taking advantage of widespread anti-Semitic resentments that the political opponent was Jewish descent, as one did with my father. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== Anniversary of the Reichsk Crystal Night. We owe it to the victims to do more than half a century of mourning. We must inculcate awareness and alertness for human, democratic behavior, and therefore I welcome the introduction of the commemorative day, which is symbolic on 5 May. May be, the anniversary of the liberation of the Mauthausen concentration camp, a camp in which racial, political, religiously persecuted and other discriminated against were devalued, tormented and killed. In addition to Austrians such as Eichmann, Kaltenbrunner, Globocnik, Murer and other cruel criminals, the other Austria stood: those heroes, whom we can rightly be proud of, risking freedom and life, resisting terror to help others save their lives. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] High house! After decades of silence, it was liberating when German Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky, the first Austrian head of government, joined the perpetrator role of Austria and apologized to the victims. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Thus he has done much for our historical awareness and reputation in the world. He led Austria from the isolation into which it had been awakened by an anti-Semitic election debate, which brought back memories of the Shoa as well as fears of existence. That's why we owe great thanks to Dr. Vrannitzky! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think Dr. Waldheim is a war criminal, just a diver, a skier and a diver. His refusal to cover his head in the Yad Vashem Memorial was provocative and to understand how many of his statements are anti-Semitic. Anti-Semitism knows an euphemist name: Anticionism. I miss Netanyahu's policy. But with many anti-Zionist statements, I wonder: How did these anti-Zionists and their families behave during the Shoa? At this place, it is often stressed that a Christian, therefore, is decent, perhaps implying, non - Catholics, non - Christians are inferior. High house! Politicians have a high responsibility. Such disasters are the cornerstone of evasion, degradation and discrimination. Understanding and loving others is not possible for everyone, but it is likely to tolerate and respect him. We owe it to the victims to call with this commemoration and tolerance, so that Santayana's statement does not come true that those who do not remember the past are damned to repeat them, and again one must say: What was real once remains possible forever.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6023	Mr Meischberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary limit of speaking time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6045	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget debate, especially the German Chancellor's Office, offers one of the few opportunities a year to discuss media policy as a whole or at least focus on press promotion. Mr Kukacka, who is sitting here, has already made his contribution to this – as always with much less resources. But it was not enough today, Mr Kukacka. It has been noted to anyone who has heard your words here and has followed your debate that you have lost no one but really no critical word on press promotion and this system, even though you have been the only speaker of your group here in the press promotion. It is already to be questioned why a system of this kind, unique in Europe, which is so competitive, is not criticised here by an economic party such as the People's Party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now, if you want to ask the question and know why Mr Kukacka has not found a single critical word about press promotion here, you only need to look at the list of promotions of those newspapers that have been deliberately thought of by the press promotion. There is the "New Volksblatt" from Upper Austria, which since 1990 has been saying and writing 160 million schilling on support from tax funds through the press promotion. [[Abg. Großruck: Very good newspaper! Excellent paper!]] In the last two years alone, there have been 40 million schilling, if one calculates the funds from the federal government and the country, in the press promotion for the "New Volksblatt", which practically appears to be excluded from the public. It is part of the Austrian media landscape, which is absolutely indispensable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you look at who is managing director, who is responsible for this newspaper, and if you look at who is responsible for the fact that in just a few years, 160 tax millions have flown into this newspaper, then you find the name Kukacka. [[Call the ÖVP.]] If it is true that Kukacka receives a principal salary – one speaks of six-digit amounts – as the managing director of this newspaper, then for me he is nothing but the "flesh-become subsidy" which is spoken here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that, ladies and gentlemen, is really the only reason why there is not a single critical word here about the press promotion of the ÖVP Group. For me, Mr Kukacka is also the personalised call for this press promotion to be finally abolished. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are still very different pieces in media policy. An example is the German Chancellor's climate, which, since it has occurred, only makes statements, promises, pre-announcements and repeatedly gives of itself things that are ultimately not even respected by the approach. He earned his reputation as "announcing chancellor" mainly from the media. Just think of the ridiculous, now withdrawn debate about the ORF reform: To this day no change on the question of the ORF monopoly, full-bodied announcements in an interview in the "TV media" about the fact that this autumn – and I believe that autumn is now – will come to a legislation on terrestrial private television. – Not even a thought approach, let alone a solution to these questions! And many things more would have to be mentioned in this context. The debate on advertising taxes is also very crucial. Austria is still a media-political island in the question of advertising taxes, which strongly disadvantage the Austrian advertising industry vis-à-vis any foreign advertiser. All these things will not be given a solution. There is only lip recognition, which is because, among other things, press promotion must not be changed. It must not be changed because it is a purely power-keeping policy. This media promotion is nothing but a media remote control instrument of the Federal Chancellery! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This media remote control instrument, ladies and gentlemen, normally works fully automatically. And once, due to the occupation of the editorial offices of the funded newspapers – promoted by press promotion, which the German Chancellor himself grants – something "passed", namely a loud criticism of the German Chancellor, as Mr. Menasse made in the guest comment in the "Standard", it becomes narrow. Then you can see what the press promotion really is: Via "NEWS" – this is also very remarkable! – is announced to the Austrian public, whether Mr. Menasse and the "Standard", who printed the contribution of Menasse, did not know that the 28 million schilling of support needed by the "standard" for survival came from the hands of the Federal Chancellor via press promotion. – It was a slipper that proved our record that we have always made: Press promotion is nothing but a power-keeping instrument of the worst variety! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are still many such examples. I'm running out of time. I just want to say: If "NEWS" spreads such reports and indicates that press promotion is being heard away, it seems to be proclaiming that this kind of promotion, general and special media promotion, is actually an unfair system, and if one considers it more closely what the funding of "NEWS" is based on, then one must not hold it back. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is based on the very special press support for very, very special friends of the ministries. These papers here are nothing but 20 pages of advertising by the various ministries in the magazine "NEWS". [[the speaker shows a bundle of copies]] The whole has a total value of around 4 million schillings, according to the "NEWS" display prices. And that's not the annual number of ministries, ladies and gentlemen, but that's from random selected three issues of the magazine "NEWS", which appears 52 times a year. This is then the very special press promotion, the hypocrisy bad. And if you look at those who appear in there, about Caspar One, who's being handcuffed by "NEWS", up to Molterer, you can see that all the ministries are represented. But that's just the field of the ministries. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: It is very high time to deviate from such anachronistic systems and find something that really supports the new media and the possibility of media diversity. We have already tabled a request to that effect in committee. We do not expect that for the reasons mentioned above – even with you, Mr Kukacka! – that you support such a request, but we will continue to try it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Perhaps we are still able to bring a little movement into the determined Austrian media policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6149	The next item is the speech by Mr Kopf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6171	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Appreciate ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Meischberger, it is quite surprising to hear from you such criticism of press promotion. I think it should also be clear to your group what press promotion is initially meant for: to ensure that a completely free market is not able to create in different sub-areas, namely media diversity, according to purely operational criteria. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Aumayr and Dr. Krüger.]] A newspaper such as the "New Volksblatt" has already received press promotion for good reason, so that this press diversity can also be ensured in Upper Austria before a Helmut Kukacka has become the publishing director there – and not the managing director. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] But I believe, rather, that you have probably been disturbed by the fact that, like many other serious media, this medium reported about you personally and your case, with which you have become so familiar and famous in Austria, has been transported to the outside. [[Abg. Aure: Negative!]] However, we will not be told by you, which medium in Austria – as you mentioned it; I quote you – is "necessary" and which is not. Thank God you and your group in Austria will not decide. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: But neither do you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 3 million cash on hand!]] We are ensuring this diversity in media coverage by creating framework conditions, including support, my dear colleague. - But now on my real topic. [[Calls and calls between the Abg. Aumayr and representatives of the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In our country, we repeatedly complain of social misdevelopments, individualization, abuse trials or, in another area, the difficult-to-finance repair medicine. There are undoubtedly instruments in our country to promote social integration, to provide high efficiency health care, to promote and strengthen national and regional identification, or to promote meaningful developments in various major sectors. An essential area in this respect is sport, which is in its whole range: from broadband to performance sports to family sports, senior sports, disabled sports and so on. The promotion of sport is, in our view, a health, social and economic governance instrument, which we support from policy... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] No, my colleague, there is no such thing as this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But you know that anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Yes, I know some black clubs!]] It may not be that a person, having a mind, should not also do something for this society as an volunteer. That's probably not how it can be, Mr. Hazelsteiner. I am already at a very important point of sport – but not just sport – in the club. Many volunteer officials work for our society, which is of major social and health importance. From this point of view, I would like to thank these many volunteers very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls and calls between Dr. Haselsteiner and Dr. Leiner.]] Since I am now with the volunteers, I would like to make a very clear statement at this point, even if it is not alone, but to a very high extent also for sport: Minister for the Interior – even though You are not here – please leave your fingers off the associations with your drafts for an association law that would not burden the voluntaryity and the many officials in the associations that are so important to our state, anything but bureaucratic and also with other measures. Please leave us alone! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: There is no design! You know that!]] We will not allow you to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: There's no draft anyway, colleague head!]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Of course there is one!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the sports sector – in particular what the associations and clubs are about to do – there is an essential support rail: the so-called special sports promotion in a range of 400 million schilling. This is modest enough if we consider the importance of this sector to our society. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Comparison with press promotion!]] We must accept that the funding approaches in virtually all areas are currently not subject, for budgetary reasons, and partly for fundamental considerations, to the earlier automatic valorization in some areas. I do not like to take note of this, but I can accept it, because we have now jointly found a solution for the special sport promotion. Mr State Secretary! I would particularly like to stress that we have found this solution together. It saves in the sense of all that we wanted to avoid, and on the other hand it can ensure that this area will be able to live in the next two years. I am very glad that we are working with our colleagues from the Socialist Group – with you, Mr Grabner and Mr Löschnak, and with you, Mr State Secretary. – has succeeded in finding this solution. We still have to finalize it, but it is on the right track, and I thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to talk briefly about general sport promotion. There is this second rail in the order of about 200 million schilling. I repeat with this, but I would like to remind you again that we will have to bring more transparency into this area in the future and that we will need guidelines on support for it. In my opinion, we should consider a commission for awarding the projects that are thus supported, in all their diversity and wide range of evaluations. It should also be subject to the sense of promoting a review and should ensure that something is done in the critical, neural areas of sport: for the trainers for whom we have too little money to ensure qualified and professional care structures, or for example in the promotion of women, for whom we have budgeted money for years, but where we are unable to define the projects that are certainly necessary and important in order to help women in sport in particular. We should also consider how we can use the 100 million schilling or part of this money to use sports as a prophylaxis in terms of health care after we decided on it last week. These would be the main challenges for the coming months and the coming year. I can offer you from my group that we want to work with you very constructively on these projects. But there are some things open, and these must be done. I'll call you again. Trainer promotion, women's promotion and generally sport as health care. This requires the implementation of concrete projects. Our support for this is if we understand the sport and its promotion as what he should be seen from politics: We can use it as a health, social and economic governance instrument within the meaning of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6363	Next word: Mr Dr. Grollitsch. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6385	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr. Federal Chancellor in absentia! Mr Sport Minister, better said: Mr Gala Sports Minister or Sportgala Minister! Wherever you may be – your presence in sports matters is limited to the self-suitable-place presentation, but not at the place where sports policy is conducted. We have never seen you in the Sports Committee, and we do not see you today on the occasion of a debate that offers the opportunity to talk about sport. You've made the sport the "chef" thing, and we're waiting for the effects. The apparent appreciation of the "most important incident in the world" remains to be seen. Mr State Secretary! They will probably mention on the hemisphere that top sports promotion has been extended and that the reception of sportsmen with the German army has succeeded. Maybe it's going to be. They also claim the qualification of Austria's football national team for the World Cup in France. But that's what it's got to do with it. Other effects are, at least from my point of view, not visible and also not readable on the budget. Mr State Secretary! To date – which will increase in the future – about 99 percent of the total sports funding has been distributed to 1 percent of athletes. This budget strengthens this situation. They have not succeeded in removing the Valorization Limitation promised by Vrannitzky. You have already been informed from our side of the interventions that you yourself have entered into your party, up to Mrs Prokop, who has written to us for help. The entire Austrian club sport is bitterly disappointed. I cannot understand that valorization in this area has not gone through, and that it was really worth spreading such uncertainty among the associations, relative to Austrian public health, even though Mr Kopf has explained here that it has been achieved and a balance has been created, but the result of which has been silenced and which is not foreseeable. [[Abg. Head: He's an opportunist!]] [[Abg. Head: He's not in the budget yet!]] I assume that you are assuming that the federal sports institutions are to be "privateized" – under quotation marks – and that the mysterious proceeds from it are intended to wander towards sports promotion and clubs. [[Abg. Head: No, no!]] Even if you don't mean that, I'll stick to this issue. A proposal has been made for a company of federal sports institutions. We want to introduce this society, which has been announced for four years and which has repeatedly been abandoned, and has put in place a proposal for it. I can tell you what the Austrian Chamber of Commerce thinks of this proposal. The criticism is primarily directed against the chosen design, which is considered to be "overregulated and hybrid consolidation of public and commercial elements". As the risk of over-priority and half-hearted "fine-privatisation to budget cosmetics" is identified, further considerations are proposed in the direction of alternative models. – This does not say a very generous sports politician, but the Chamber of Commerce. But you are now stuck in a mess, and it will become transparent in the case of Goldberger in the very near future, which duality and which ignorance is in the direction of professional sports. I have recently asked the Federal Chancellor how it is about Austria's professional sport, in connection with the fact that the EU has prohibited the promotion of professional sports associations by public means. The fact that this happens daily is one thing, but something else is the excuse of the Federal Chancellor, namely the lapidar answer: There is no professional sport in Austria. The fact that he has not been registered is now going to be clear in the case of Goldberger in the very near future. However, it has already become transparent at the flight from ski athletes and other Austrian athletes to the Antilles. This reveals the inconsistency in many directions, the manning and mixing of professional sports with amateur sports as well as a confusion of broadband and health sports with amateur sport that wants to be higher than he can. Here is a proposal for a clear separation: Leave professional sport its self-regulatory mechanism and promote amateur sports by providing suitable sports facilities! We are waiting for the sports venue plan after the old one expires in 1996 and its renewal and expansion have been announced in great detail. He's still missing. Above all, I would like to ask you, Mr State Secretary, to take up party policy from the point of view of the promotion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, how can it happen that frontal organisations of parties – specifically the ASKÖ – are able to freely grant public funds? Why can this continue to be in the form of how it has happened for decades? . We have already criticized this in committee and have now also tabled an appropriate proposal. This has nothing to do with the fact that it would be a matter for us to break down attic associations. Roof associations have done quite acknowledgmentable and cheap work in the field of broadband. But what does one have to do with the other? What does voluntary work in the association have to do with the fact that a few officials are allowed to get deeply into the bag: to write the requests for subsidies on the one desk and then go to the other office to confirm them there – and finally to take over the third function, namely the control of funding? – That must be an end! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to end with a conciliatory remark. Our intense desire – at the request of the liberals and with the support of the socialist sports speaker, who is not a mountain biker, but has his sports heart on the right side – has succeeded in setting up a sports committee. [[the speaker speaks mountain bikers like "mountenbiker"]] [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] May this Sports Committee take up its deliberations soon – still on the 1996 sports report! We may also be able to meet Mr Sportgala Minister or Gala Sports Minister there once. We'd be glad.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6476	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6497	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! In this debate on the Supreme Institutions, I would like to refer to the work of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs or to her area. First of all on the promotions for women's and girls' advisory services: I believe that the 26 women's and girls' advisory services in Austria must do excellent work and therefore be supported. In other words, in the future, we must really do something to ensure that their stocks are managed with a basic financial security. I do not agree with Mrs Kammerlander if she is very negative about this and has claimed that the Federal Minister or the Ministry of Women is not doing anything in this direction. In my opinion, we need to consider whether it is sufficient for 50 percent of the funding from the narrow budget to be made available for this service. Mrs. Federal Minister! We need to consider whether we will not only secure these service agencies for one year in the future, but will finance them in the longer term. It is also to be considered... [[Federal Minister Mag. Prammer talks to an employee.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: She doesn't listen! Nobody listens!]] Unfortunately, this is the problem in the case of women's discussions. These are also a part of society, and it would be really desirable if I were to borrow an ear here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grabner: But we will say that to your colleagues when they stand there!]] Just no excitement! I still have several black pills in my drawer, not only for Mr Hazelsteiner, but also for you, Mr Colleague. [[Abg. Grabner: That's not where we're going to be afraid!]] [[Further calls.]] I don't know why the excitement is so great now. I just asked Mrs. Minister to listen. I have a constructive proposal to make. This means that I support longer-term protection of women's service facilities or girls' counsellors. I believe, however, that in the future we must consider whether we are creating new, additional facilities which no longer have anything to do with this matter alone and do not necessarily belong to the Ministry of Women. I mean that we should not shape the existing women's services or girl-advisors, which are still set up in the regions, as Mrs Kammerlander said: they are also responsible for culture, sport and much more. This can very well be achieved from other promoters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, more than ever before, we need to support the women's homes because, in addition to the social assistance associations, they do immensely good work on this funding. As I am now in the field of support, I would like to give an example of what I mean by targeted support. It is particularly important in the EU that information continues to run, but I believe that it is also necessary to select it. It is a little surprising if the women's service agencies, as we know, receive too little money, and at the same time with the association Business Women's Center in Vienna and Graz – in Graz too, ÖSB, one of my own unidentified organization, the labour market service and the Chamber of Commerce each with its own department and "nowa" women's projects, and they all work excellently – are also set up an advisory body, which co-ports a considerable amount in this direction and is also secured for two years with works contracts. For another point, which I cannot understand, I would ask you to support, Mrs Minister. There is no country representative for the EU affairs of women and for equal opportunities, and in a letter from the Federal Chancellor's Office of 27 May. January 1997 – perhaps you know nothing about it – says it is not necessary to send a country representative; it would be sufficient if a representative from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Women in Brussels represented our concerns. They were themselves at the Women's Conference. My colleague told me that there is a protocol of women's representatives – I have it here – that lists how long the way has been to reach a country representative. We urgently need these to get information – including from the two Ministries mentioned above. Especially in times like this and especially since one knows that last year 15 NOW projects have been submitted, which are purely women's projects, and have come to the 20th round, I ask you to use your weight and your power to involve the countries by a country representative.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6585	Next word: Mrs Haller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6607	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Procurator! Excuse me! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr State Secretary! For a prosecutor, he really doesn't have the qualities I'm putting them in for a prosecutor. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are debating in colorful order under the title "Top Institutions", a total of nine budget chapters. I very much regret that we have not at least tried to discuss the individual budget chapters together in order to enable a real debate and a little more confrontation between the representatives and speakers of the government parties and those of the opposition. That's how it goes a little across the vegetable garden. I'm dealing with the women's minister's budget – she doesn't listen to me, but maybe she'll still do it. We liberals have already asked a number of questions in the Committee on Budgets. The first was the funding sector, which, as the budget suggests, was increased by a total of 6 million schilling. The Federal Minister has already pointed this out very proudly. According to her written reply, she focuses on the development of women's services and on projects against violence against women and children. I personally and also we liberals find this all in order. A little more complicated is being done in the second area of staff expenditure. The total staff expenditure for the "Top Institutions" chapter under 1/10 000 is estimated to have an increase of 22 percent from 1996 to 1998. It is clear to me that this is not related to the budget or to the work of the Minister for Women. Skills have been shifted, and most of these increases will be justified. But our question also shows that a total of 31.5 women are working in the area of women's affairs. In your personal office, Mrs. Federal Minister, 16 employees work. I think this is a huge number of officials, officials and contract staff working on it. If you have heard your answer to the criticism of Members of Parliament who have complained about your complaining attitude towards women's desire, and you have apologised that you have initiated various research projects and working groups, I must say: For 31.5 employees, the result of the work of the Ministry of Women is considered to be really clumsy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] If I continue to answer the question of freedom, I can also say with satisfaction that you have at least made money available for an EU project that supports the work experience and the training of day-to-day mothers. As you all know, this is a long-standing demand of the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I really feel satisfied that you are at last ready by your ministry to approach these considerations at least in a thoughtful way. We are less in agreement with the fact that you spend 414 000 s on ordering a brochure, which, according to your information, contains instructions on gender-based speech. I believe that this expenditure... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What is that?]] You know that, Karl Schweitzer, what that is. You hear it again and again. But it would have been unnecessary. Overall, contains Your budget does not have a huge amount of expenditure and the cost of property is hardly affected. Again and again it has also been tried to establish the installation of this Ministry of Women as a signal effect. But this signal effect is becoming more and more questionable, Mrs. Federal Minister. Let's remember: Once – under your predecessor Dohnal – there was a megatrend in women's policy. A major breakthrough has been promised for women, and women have also been promised to take part in women's or women's pensions. Today, however, it is perfectly clear that this is not the case at present and that the activities – including your predecessors – have exhausted themselves in jokes and half-half-actions. There are de facto economic improvements as good as none. They themselves have voiced, and more and more voices, that there is a so-called glass ceiling for women and that the climate for women has become more harsh since the women's desire, which is certainly related to the economic situation as a whole. When I consider that your so much-priced quota schemes have brought more women into political bodies, but in the end they were just as successful as they were among your predecessors, I must already ask myself: Can women's policy really be done without men? – The answer is: No, no, no, [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] We liberals have always expressed the view that women's policy must be of social interest. On this point, I agree with my predecessor, Mrs Steibl: We need the men to do it! Radikalfeminism is simply no longer in this area. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Minister! If I remember men of your party acting in favour of your party's female representatives this summer in this House, if I remember that female Members were needed to vote and no assistance came from your side, then I must say: You still have enough to do in your own party! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are relatively minor problems that you could have solved for a long time, whose solution has been promised several times. I am speaking now of women with care obligations, and I am saying this today for the sound so many times here: Women with care responsibilities still have full-day and unlimited access to the labour market, regardless of the number of children to be cared for. Nothing has been improved in this area, although your predecessor, Konrad, has announced this, and although there is now a female women's minister and a female social minister, they do not seem to be able to reach an agreement either. There has already been a notice of this in the "ZiB 2" once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Mrs Mertel! You can then explain your position here at the speaker's desk! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I can talk from here too!]] In any case, a solution has been announced on television, but nothing has been done de facto. That is why, for the first time, the question of your ministry's power of existence does not really arise for us liberals. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schwarzenberger and Dr. Mertel.]] You can't measure someone just by his words. The women's minister is violent, I admit to her, but at last I expect actions!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6732	Next word: Mr Grabner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6754	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! First of all, just two sentences, because in 5 minutes you can't say much. Zum Association law: There is no draft law, and we will fight together to ensure that the non-profit small associations are not disadvantaged! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I am immediately in favour of setting up a special sports promotion commission, but this must, of course, apply to all ministries and not only to sports. If we go together, we can certainly find a solution! Ladies and gentlemen! 2.5 million people in Austria regularly and another 4 million occasionally run sports. There are 18 000 officially reported sports clubs with 250 000 officials offering almost 100 sports. The resulting value added per year for the economy is estimated to be around 100 billion schilling. For some sectors of the economy, sport should be regarded as an engine, for example for producers of sports equipment and leisure clothing, for tourism, but also for the media, for transport companies, for service companies, for advertising and for export, while also forgetting the growing importance of the job situation. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot understand the statement made by Dr. Grollitsch: Sport is no longer the most important by-product in the world, sport has a great importance in our society! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The house Sport is in Austria with Lösnak, Wallner, Jungwirth, Mauhart, Gruber, Ludwig, Holdaus, Neuper and many others very well occupied. [[Abg. Leikam: And Grabner!]] From a liberal point of view, more than 250 000 officials who manage and engage in sports are laughed. – I don’t think that’s very positive for sports and for your party! Federal sports funding – we have already heard it – will be a better solution for sport than valorization. That is why I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the two government parties, our State Secretary and also our President of the BSO Löschnak! Thank you very much! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also very important for a small country like Austria to perform major events. In 1998 and 1999, many European Championships, World Championships and World Cups will again be held in Austria. Even though we have the two major events, namely the European Football Championship and the 2006 Olympic Games – the selection of the candidate is already on the 2nd. This will be an important issue for the cities concerned and Austria on December 1st. Many budget resources are made available for sports sites, such as the last rate of 20.5 million schilling for the Graz Stadium, the first 20 million for renovation in Innsbruck and the new construction of the football stadium. For the 1999 Ramsau World Championship, 3 million Schillings and 10 million Schillings were already made available for the 2001 St. Anton World Championships. The Youth Promotion project – already for the 2004 Summer Olympics – is also being donated with 8 million schillings. Ladies and gentlemen! The development in the IMSB with Holdaus at the top is also of great importance for Austrian sport. I could say a lot about the performance centres and the like. However, the time has already advanced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] School sport does not fall within the competence of the Federal Chancellery, but State Secretary Dr. Wittmann has already launched an initiative: "Sporthits for Kids" is a great success. I hope, Mr State Secretary, that this event will be held in the future throughout Austria! Mr. Dr. Grollitsch! They always say that the umbrella organisations that conduct the organization of broadband are politically occupied. – In my last speech on the sports report, I have told you that it cannot be that political at all: Because your federal party was in a union union. They have made a correction and said that I have said the untruth. However, I have here a letter from the Union confirming that Dr. Haider was in the Althofen Obmann club of the Austrian gymnastics and sports union from 1986 to 1990. – So I told you the truth, your supervisor was also President of the Union! [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: Look here!]] I think you should say that. For if one stands here and says something and then one is assumed to have said the untruth, then we can, as I think, ask for a correction again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Mr President, I should like to thank For you, it would have been better if you had kept your mouth shut, because of sport you have no idea! In this matter I can only give you the yellow card! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why not the red one?]] The Lotto-Toto-Society is very important for sports in Austria. I can tell you that from 1986 to 1996, society has provided 3.9 billion Schilling for sport, 149 million Schilling for childcare, 154 million Schilling for sports aid, 141 million Schilling for senior education and 41 million Schilling for the Austrian Olympic Committee. – A thank you to the Board of Directors of the Lotto-Toto-Gesellschaft! Finally, I would like to say a few words about sports aid. If you meant Dr. Grollitsch, of course the Chancellor was present at the "night of sport", then I can tell you that Mr. Dr. Haider and his consorts were also present, and they have looked into the television camera as well as the Federal Chancellor. I believe that this must be possible for any citizen and, of course, for the Minister responsible. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why didn't you invite us, Noldi?]] From this point of view, I would like to thank the new Managing Director of Sporthilfe, Hubert Neuper. At this event last Saturday we could really be proud of the sport! I would like to say a warm thank you from this point of view to the predecessor, our friend Andy Schwab, for we owe this to him! Ladies and gentlemen! The top athletes are the best ambassadors of Austria in the world. I hope that our top athletes will bring back many successes for Austria at the Olympic Games in Japan!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6875	Mr Grollitsch referred to an actual correction. Please, honourable Member. The Rules of Procedure shall be known as follows: 2 minutes of time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6900	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Grabner has just claimed that the Freeman laughs at the 250 000 volunteer sports officials in Austria. I'm actually correcting: In my speech, I have previously paid the voluntary functional recognition. A good part of these officials also belongs to our political direction. There is nothing to blame for these persons, and it is wrong to assume that we are laughing at this group of persons. [[Abg. Grabner: Then let them act differently!]] Secondly, I do not think it right that my claim at the time that Dr. Haider did not work as an official in a Union union that did not stand by the review. In fact, he worked as a member of this association in 1986, but I was convinced that this association was only "occupied" by the Union afterwards, under quotation marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6935	This was a bit at or above the limit of an actual correction. Mr Schöggl has now been reported on the floor. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6960	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Today's debate is really very diverse and interesting in its combination. [[Calls and countercalls between the SPÖ and the Fidelity.]] I would like to return from sport to women, because in the sense of what my colleague, Mr Haller, has said, we are actually trying to shed light on women's policy issues together, because I believe that this also concerns men to a large extent. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Eder.]] Minister! In the context of the debate, all the possible funding, programmes and projects you are planning to deal with with your budget have already been presented, and I now want to put the weighting of this budget into a bit. They have a total of 65 million schillings, which are 0.87 promills of the total budget. For example, we are spending much more on the weather satellites than the women's ministry has budget resources at its disposal! This is the case with the Ministry of Women, as my colleague Haller has already said, a corresponding signal is actually being sent. This means that little can be done to improve the position of women in society. However, this signal is, in turn, a relatively expensive signal, especially because you are actually using 25 percent of the means available to you in your own field and therefore this is no longer as immediate to the women as you have planned. Minister! Nevertheless, you could, to a modest extent, at least try to support women who are unindebted in need. I assume that you do the same. With the funds you have spent on the extremely unnecessary study entitled "Creative Forms – Instructions for the Use of Sexual Language", which at least said and cost 415 000 S, you could have provided heating aid for the winter if you were using it properly, for example, 1,000 single widows! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! They stated at the Committee meeting that women will now finally have their own section in the Federal Chancellery. – I think that’s exactly what the women always wanted in their struggle: Finally their own section at the Federal Chancellery! This really is the right thing to do now! I believe that it will not matter to women as they are embedded in the administration, the main thing is that they are effectively represented. [[Complaints with the liberals]] But that really can't be a talk! They also find it difficult to really occupy a political theme because there is hardly any typical women's theme. For health policy, social policy, economic policy, judicial policy, security policy are equally concerned with both sexes, and we women, pardon!, it is our liberals who are trying to bring the male aspects into this subject too. [[general hustle and bustle]] That was a Freud's promise! That'll be allowed! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That was a nice compliment!]] Just like that! Thank you. Finally, I would like to refer to the regionalisation of the equal treatment prosecutions. Minister! If it is really important for you and the ladies of the ÖVP to create a complete decentralised network for the care of women, then take seriously our request to entrust these tasks to established lawyers – and there are also excellent female lawyers! Then you would not have to create additional institutions and no additional offices! But, of course, you could not occupy any political posts either. And I believe that in the last episode you are only concerned with this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! When I think about how long it takes and we have to wait for this equal treatment prosecution, which you announced a long time ago, to be established in the east of Austria, I fear that if you continue to do so, women will have to wait a long time for their comprehensive representation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7034	Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7056	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! A small comment to my previous speaker on the keyword of male logic: If there is little money for women's policy, then it is not to do with social policy as well, but rather to care for women's issues. – That would have to be cut under the aspect of "male logic"! I would like to try to take a short look. Finally, this also does newspapers and weekly magazines from apparently given occasion. I would like to raise five points and give five answers to that. First: It looks like thinking and action barriers that existed before a generation can be regarded as overcome. Women have reached board levels, they have reached the section levels, the heads of civil servants' careers. - But! Only 3.7 percent of the board members, 7 percent of supervisory boards and not even 5 percent of section heads are female. Second point: Women usually link family and profession so successfully – thank God! – that children do not suffer from hunger and thirst, that they are quite successful, happy children, and that women also rise or in the profession. Their work is at least as good as that of men. - But! Men are only 10 percent involved in the educational work necessary in addition to their work, 90 percent of which remains for women. At Paul Zulehner it is said that only 6 percent of men fulfil the attribute of being "new" partnership men. Third point: Women take training seriously, they bring the better testimonies home. - But! In view of children, they fall back in their demands, giving up about one third of their income, so that they can keep energy for cleaning, cooking, caring. They thus refrain from income parts and from old age insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What are you doing about it?]] Listen, please. Fourth point: Women note that professional success is linked to life-friendliness, life networks, ropes. - But! Men take out exclusion and definition rights and thus take away time for women to care for these ropes. They do all they can to prevent women from being able to organize themselves in order to define for themselves what they want. Fifth point – of course many others were also mentioned – : Women basically enjoy holistic, balanced personalities and enjoy working together with such personalities – teamwork could be the key word – as a good relationship between rational motivation and emotional feeling. - But that's true: Self-employed traps and the tricks of some men make them take up occupations and activities that can hardly be done under the help syndrome, i.e. activities associated with low social acceptance, where payment is low, activities which, as it is said, are, however, the "natural" task of the woman. – As far as some excerpts from my findings. What do we have to do? – The People’s Party has always said: The free choice of life models is a top principle; our idea is in line with the principle of partnership. In five points, I want to say what to do: We have the framework to ensure that women learn even better, not merely formally, but not in terms of their choice of careers and studies. Mrs. Minister! I would ask you to become active in the context of Mrs Gehrer's vocational orientation initiative in order to achieve as consistently as possible improvements for women in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Women also need to become much stronger when it comes to defining marriage, family, partnership as a challenging company to be planned rationally. What do you need to do? – Love, eros and passion must not be torn apart and crushed, but it must be said to our girls and women very well that the implementation of everyday life, that is, who buys what and who gives money into the household books, is a strenuous and challenging undertaking. And whosoever sayeth that it shall not be spoken of, he shall lead women and girls astray. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do the ÖVP men say?]] There are repeated statements. I am telling you all this so that you will not be embarrassed not to know what attitude the People's Party represents. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Just because you say that does not mean that this is the position of the ÖVP!]] I have not used this for myself, but I am a representative of the People's Party, so you can assume that this is also an EIA position! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: A minority representative!]] Like you, Mr. Schweitzer. Thirdly, Knowledge is power. See above, point one. Fourth point: Not only knowledge is power, but also money is power. I think that women should be afraid to use money for their work. You are still more powerful with money and more money than with less money. That means: Employment for both partners ensures strong prosperity, both in active life and in pension. And returning to work in favour of self-employed family tasks is also a joy and a self-appointed task if it is done in partnership. In other words, women's work should serve as a means of ensuring prosperity and old age. Fifth, you open a bottle The concentration of forces, for example, in the sense of the one already said by Mr Steibl: The few money concentrated use so as not to succumb to a flash that is all in front of the door. Thank you, Mrs. Minister, Hohes Haus.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7141	Mr Krüger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7162	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies' lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr State Secretary! I would like to talk about art from the very important chapter on women and families, and first of all I would like to address the Secretary of State directly. Mr State Secretary! They are now in office for about a three-quarters of a year and more slipped over the smooth Vienna parquet than steps. But it must not surprise us, ladies and gentlemen, that this sensitivity has entered into your person, because the old ropes of cultural policy, especially the Scholten axis – Patärk, and also certain cultural journalists have certainly not made it easy for you. You have hardly left out any possibility of rich soaping and polishing the soils of art and cultural policy for you in order to make life difficult for you! Ladies and gentlemen! However, I must also note in your favour that you have proved a certain stability, and this is also recognised by the opposition, at least by the FPÖ. However, there is a great danger that you will stay on half way. There are a large number of statements, Mr State Secretary, which come from you, but which are diametrically opposed to those made by the alleged head of cultural policy, namely the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Allow me to show you this on the basis of two examples. First of all, I refer to the place in the Government Declaration where the Federal Chancellor admits that art must be carried out without purpose. On the other hand, there is a statement from you, Mr. State Secretary, to read in the issue of the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" of 14. February 1997, which says the exact opposite of what the Federal Chancellor has said in the Government Declaration. Title for the interview of State Secretary Wittmann with the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten": "Art must not be self-evident." – Dear Mr State Secretary! It would finally be time to make a clear decision on the location! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this is not the only discrepancy we need to find in your statements in relation to the statements of the Federal Chancellor. I would also like to remind you of a Question Time of the Austrian National Council: At the time, Mr Bundeskanzler said whether he could imagine the possibilities of cultural sponsorship in the form of the recognition of tax expenses for contemporary art, quite clearly that he could not imagine this, because if one removes exceptions on the one hand, one cannot introduce such exceptions on the other. However, there is a completely contrary statement from you, which is in our mind – I do not want to hide it here – if you say: Art sponsorship can be an important means of promoting art and can also be useful by means of tax policy, through the recognition of special expenditure. They also expressed very specific views in the then Subcommittee of the Committee on Culture on their own initiative and said that you could imagine that an amount of up to 20 000 S would be introduced as a special expenditure for contemporary art expenditure. This statement is truly remarkable, because it is exactly in line with the freedom of cultural policy, which is aimed at finally getting away from the state of art and subsidies monopoly at least in part – you can't get away completely, that's clear to me – and going towards a private sponsoring. For it should be clear to all of us – and those who deny it lack a proper assessment of things – that there is a really great potential for reforms in cultural promotion. There are two statements, not from the opposition, but from – under quotation marks – "unsuspected witnesses" who demonstrate this impressively. In this connection, I would like to begin by referring to the protocol of the Art Promotion Advisory Council. The former chairman of the Advisory Board, who says – I quote – : "The Art Promotion Advisory Board is actually not necessary for proposals, because through personal interventions" – you hear and marvel! – "the affected promoter will be more achieved by politicians and department heads." My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This statement, however, testifies to how much the funding policy is in annoyance, because it clearly proves that the most massive interventions by politicians and many interventions by department leaders are obviously crowned by success – despite the introduction of art advisory boards and art curators. Another quote I can read to you from the author Marlene Streeruwitz, who says: "This scholarship and subsidy Vienna with its ministerial cliquen has produced a stand bee-breeding of which I did not feel that an honorable confrontation with the spiritual was possible." Ladies and gentlemen! These two statements, which, in my opinion, correctly reflect the current state of funding policy in art, should, however, be the reason to discuss new, complementary support models. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary! Short to the Bundestheaterreform: We have already shown a complete reform of the Bundestheater a year ago, and I agree that some of it is reflected in the current model that a consulting firm has prepared for you. I don't want to say it's written down, but at least some things are equal to cover. However, Mr State Secretary, if we come as far as it was to be read in the "Kurier" today that a holding company should serve to give the title and function of a cultural general director to Mr Dr Springer, who is now in a responsible position in the Secretariat, then I can tell you now: We certainly do not play with that, for that we are certainly not to have! I have nothing against the holding function, a holding company can take over very reasonable, coordinating tasks, but I have something against the fact that today a reform under the motto of moving more autonomy from the secretariat to the individual houses will start and then destroy this path immediately, turn back on the sales and, in turn, put a large waterhead on these operating societies. At the end – the time is limited – to the film. Here again, I share the criticism expressed by Mr Morak. If, Mr State Secretary, we are always talking about this - and it has already been said - that the budget is the policy cast in figures, then we must say that, transferred to the chapters of art, this actually results in the stoning of politics, because you know that all approaches 1 : 1 are prayed and rewritten. It will be up to you to free art and cultural policy from this decreed stonemaking and to launch a real reform.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7250	Mr President, Mr Wittmann, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7271	Mr President. High house! I would like to briefly comment on the accusations or statements which have now been made. The claimed discrepancy between the Federal Chancellor's statement and mine does not exist. The German Chancellor's statement that art must be free of use, and my statement that art cannot be self-interest, is no contrast, rather it is a supplementary remark, which in no way stands in opposition to that of the Federal Chancellor, especially in the context of the cultural policy that always comes to the fore. Getting away from the art sponsorship of the state is not my intention, even if you have stated here that this is my intention. - It's not that! The state cannot withdraw from the obligation of sponsoring the art. In particular, he cannot withdraw because of the marketability of some art holes not already emerge at the time of their birth, but only later or perhaps not at all. It is not possible to censor art holes from the outset, so to speak, by not giving them the opportunity to unfold. I am quite convinced, however, that we can provide an incentive in addition to the state sponsorship – not instead of a part or instead of the entire state sponsoring. At least one can discuss this. But not – as you have suggested – as a partial replacement of government sponsorship, but only in addition. I would like to say something about the federal reform of theatre. The Bundestheaterreform is intended to serve a more efficient decision of the houses. This means that the houses will become more independent, the decisions of the directors present there will be made more directly, quickly, efficiently and without greater administrative burden. The holding function provided for in our model provides for a very slim holding with few personnel positions, which have to be carried out exclusively coordinating tasks and on the one hand the link to the owner state and on the other hand the coordinating link to the individual groups, because there is a coordinating intermediate in the distributions or restructurings in this size. And it is no different for large companies, too, than to translate a holding company to ultimately manage individual companies better, to manage them more efficiently and to carry out a balancing function. - That's what you're saying. Nor is it intended to create a "Culture General Director", but there will only be a managing director of the Holding-GesmbH, and this managing director will be one of the managing directors provided for in these GesmbHs. With regard to Mr Grollitsch's comments on sport, I should like to say the following: It has indeed happened in the last six months. We have put top sports promotion on completely new legs. We are trying to focus them on major events through scientific evaluations. This means that, in the run-up to major events, we also check the performance ratios of the individual sportsman, that we see whether he is actually in the plan for participation in such a large event and is entitled to participate in it. We are currently negotiating a valorization replacement for the special sports promotions. We have progressed very far here, and I am convinced that sport will not get away with money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, we have already set aside a great deal of the way in relation to the Federal Sportheim distribution. We're not going to make any privatisation. That is why the criticism that we are making a pseudo-privatisation here is unfair, because we do not intend to make privatisation at all, but a breakdown. This means that we will choose a form of private-law organisation for the Bundessportheime, probably that of the GesmbH, and some of these Bundessportheime will be transferred to the administration of the relevant professional associations. This ensures that the operation of these sports homes is preserved by sport and is integrated into the professional associations that will have the best possibilities for the operation and utilization of these sports clubs in the future. We will sum up the remaining remains – that is, up to Spitterberg, Kitzsteinhorn and St. Christoph – in a GesmbH. The whole is not intended to serve the sale or privatisation, but rather to remain the property of the federal government, but it is intended to facilitate the possibilities of a tight form of organization within a GesmbH with accounting, cost awareness and all the advantages that can be drawn from these private forms of organization. As far as the roof associations are concerned, I would like to make one point: We have an organisation structure there for 250 000 volunteers. This would mean abandoning some of these volunteers, and this would also mean that the sports offers currently available in Austria would probably no longer be maintained in this quality and scale, as is the case at present. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are also concerned with applying for further major events or preparing for them. We have secured and financed the world championship in the Nordic ski race for 1999 in the Ramsau; the reconstruction work for this has already been completed. We started the preparatory measures for the 2001 World Cup in St. Anton. And we want to apply for the 2004 European Championship in football. Here too, the preparatory talks are very wide-ranging, and as you know, we have a very powerful competitor here, namely Spain, which is why we have to prepare ourselves very well. We will also apply for the 2006 Olympic Games, and I can assure you that many countries would be happy if they had a candidate in the quality of which we have three, from which we can then choose a candidate who will then prove himself internationally. I think there's a lot going on here. I would also like to point out that we are trying to bring school sports together with performance and broadband. Here we have different approaches, such as "Hits for Kids". For example, in Wiener Neustadt we conducted a comprehensive study of a year of students during this event. We've done power tests. There was a huge echo. More than 2 600 young people have been examined on these two days, and the results can be provided by sports associations, parents and schools to ensure a qualified training or promotion of young people. We are also trying to oblige those trainers who are being promoted by us to give highly qualified trainers in schools to interact here too between school and wide-ranging sports. It is therefore not the case that we would not put any emphasis on this, but I would certainly like to keep my mind on it. On the contrary, we are already very far in preparation, but also in implementation. A very large focus has so far been placed on the table, namely the sport of disabled people, for which we set very special emphasis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have made available the corresponding resources for disabled sport this year and will also make them available in the budget for the next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7374	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. Mr Krüger has made a statement on an actual correction. First, ask for the finding of the facts to be corrected and for a brief response. 2 minutes of time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7402	High house! The Secretary of State has misquoted me when he told me that I would have wanted the state to withdraw from state art sponsorship. I'm actually correcting: I have said that private art sponsorship can only be a complement to state art promotion, because I am well aware – just as you have said – that the marketability of art cannot be decided now, as Arnold Schönberg said many years ago: The great artist is punished at lifetimes for later enjoying generations and centuries of worship.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7432	Arnold Schönberg, I think, was not correct, but it was interesting to hear that. The next item is the report by Mr Herzegovina. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7456	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers and my Mr. Volksanwalt! I would like to make a few comments on the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think it is a little too short in the debate today. Ladies and gentlemen have been here brave for hours. And these remarks certainly give the opportunity to get into the debate, but they are also connected to the danger of criticism, because I sometimes have to deal critically with the People's Procuratorate. In general, I think that the discussion on the rights and possibilities of the public prosecutorship should be kept as permanent as possible, because that is a prerequisite for a good development. A short time to the opposition. There is a request from the Liberal Forum, Dr Schmidt, which calls for an extension of audit competence towards distributed companies, but also for funds, foundations and institutions. I believe that this is extremely problematic. Finally, there are capacity limits, ladies and gentlemen. Consider, for example, that next year the public prosecutor’s budget will be 13 or 14 percent higher, around 8 million schilling. Another approach that the People's Procuratorate, as the institution of Parliament, should have the same rights as the Court of Auditors, I think is completely wrong and completely system-absorbing. This should be rethinked and modified, if necessary. I also have little access to a request from Mr Stoisits from the Greens, although otherwise I often believe that the People's Procuratorate should be able to make legislative proposals here in Parliament. According to my understanding of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, the people will be able to do so, the Members of Parliament, the Federal Government and the Federal Council – and nobody else! One has the impression at all that the People's Procuratorate is seen as an opposition instrument, especially by the Greens, and I think this is completely wrong. This does not do a good thing for the People's Procuratorate either. Mrs Petrovic has also put the public prosecutor's office on her side today in her overall account. Well meant isn't always good. One should not overload the public prosecutor's office with tasks that do not fit into the system and which cannot be fulfilled from the capacity. The FPÖ – which is always easy to make – is any strengthening right, of whoever and whatever, if it weakens the National Council on the other hand. This is paradoxical, but a well-known pattern, that the FPÖ Members are right in all that detracts the rights of Members. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] The summit was indeed when, last week, Dr. Haider meant that political work was not a work. – So it really doesn't go deeper. Does this strengthen MEPs, strengthen Parliament, strengthen the National Council when Mr Haider says that political work is not work? So the realization of last week can only be that the FPÖ is not afraid of anything, of nothing and no one, and not even of itself, ladies and gentlemen. [[Further call of the Abg. Young.]] SPÖ and ÖVP, like all other political groups who want to design constructively, are called to deal carefully with and observe the suggestions of the People's Procuratorate. However, sometimes we have to smile when the People's Procuratorate filed an action against too much bureaucracy, against too many laws, against anti-citizen norms, against the flood of law and against us on the other side. Page long lists of legal suggestions received from it. Again: In principle, the suggestions must be taken seriously, but, for example, I do not think that the suggestion to apply the authorisation requirement for artificial snow production plants in legal form is useful. Or: The legal regulation of the music therapist's profession cannot also be on the top of the house's priority list. If there are – and I am at the end – ambitions regarding additional fields of action of the public prosecutor's office, I would like to take up something that Mrs Volksanwälter Korosec meant about reform plans in an interview in December of the previous year. She said – I quote from the "standard": "For years there has been a recodification of the ASVG, but nothing happens. This means that citizens are less and less aware of themselves." I would like to make the following proposal: Make the attempt of a draft of a citizen-friendly ASVG! Translate matter into a citizen-friendly language, and present the result to us! We would all be very grateful to you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7533	Mrs Gatterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7554	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear People's Lawyers! I would like to return to the topic of women. I believe that we women in general feel that for some time now a colder and sharper wind has blowed us into the face. The reason for this is my opinion that the world of work is changing not only in Austria but worldwide. We need to find new solutions, new answers are needed. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We need a re-evaluation of the work. When we talk about women's work, it's not just paid employment. Women's work means family work, care work, relationship work, and, of course, voluntary work. Payed and unpaid work today constitutes the prosperity of Austria and justify our quality of life. I would like to point out once again how much unpaid work has to be assessed. According to a 1995 statistics, the number of hours paid in Austria is 8 billion, those of the unpaid 11 billion. The value of paid hours is 1 374 billion schilling and the value of unpaid working hours is 1 875 billion schilling. You see, prosperity and quality of life in Austria are not possible without unpaid work. However, it is still a fact – and some of my previous speakers have pointed out – that unpaid work is usually done by women. In the family, 90 percent of the unpaid work is still female. If you involve clubs, the women do 66 percent of the unpaid work, but they only have 34 percent of the labour income. In the case of men, it is the other way round: They account for only 34 percent of the unpaid work, but have 66 percent of the labour income. So high time to redefine work. The re-evaluation of work means partnership for the ÖVP in the family, but the re-evaluation must also eliminate direct and indirect wage discrimination against women. It is still a fact that women earn less by 27 percent. The EIA has tabled a motion for a resolution calling on the Minister for Social Affairs to work together with the social partners to develop gender-neutral and independent criteria in order to eliminate the pay gap between men and women and to achieve greater justice. Many colleagues have repeatedly talked about redistribution over the past week, a redistribution from empire to arm. I wish that there would also be some Members speaking about redistribution on this point. I wish that colleagues – like Mr Schöggl from the Liberal Group – would not only speak here, but that they would take the topic of women seriously! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] After all, it occurred to me that he was more like this: Look, I'm so brave, I'm helping women, but actually I don't take the subject seriously. – I think it is better to talk about your group only the women who take the issue seriously. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He's no longer here, the Schöggl!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's extremely unfair! This is female macho!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Well, well, Dr. Graf! What a mimosis you're talking about now!]] I believe that it is still the case that women and jobs are being brought to the meeting over and over again, that women have been more poorly trained and therefore have fewer opportunities in the labour market. I would like to point out that 45 percent of academics are women. Even the excuses, women get children, can no longer apply. On average, Austrian women wish for two children. The reality looks that way – this is calculated – that women today have 1.49 children, most families, most women have only one child. That is, we still need great action in terms of the compatibility of family and profession. We still live in a two-thirds society: Two thirds of the beneficiaries are women, two thirds of the compensation recipients, two thirds of those in need under 5 000 s are women. Women reach two thirds of income and two thirds of the male pension. I think we should work together to achieve that at least half of the future is female.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7627	The next speaker is Mrs Anna Huber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7652	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Good and fresh and above all undistorted foods have a very high priority for us Austrians. Genetically modified foods are rejected by most consumers. After all, the 1.2 million consumers have documented very impressively as part of the genetic engineering people's desire. We have therefore, in a very consistent follow-up to the principle that every consumer needs to know about the content of a food, requires a complete labelling of food products, namely a clear, clear and unmistakable labelling. The discussion about the Biogensoja has also shown the need for an independent and, above all, efficient control body. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother.]] Mrs. Mother! In Austria, we have this efficient control body with the Federal Food Research Institute; it has become 100 years old this year. We have there the experts who have done groundbreaking work in the field of analysis in the conventional food sector. The expertise of the Wiener Anstalt enjoys Europe-wide reputation, also and in particular – Mrs. Col. Motter, I was able to convince myself personally – in the demonstration of genetically modified foods. [[New call for tender Mother]] In fact, I think it is very, very strange that the discoverer comes to the pranger, that his qualification is doubted rather than the producers who are using selling picklers and thus pretends something of which he knows very well that it is not true, or of which he at least knows that he can't guarantee anything. I may read a letter from the Federal Food Research Institute to a newsmagazine, a reader's letter, which unfortunately did not appear: The allegations that the Federal Food Research and Research Institute has been secreting the outcome of an investigation since April are incorrect. ==References== On April 1, the Federal Institute for Food Research and Research was given a sample by the Wiener Marktamt. Since in the test certificate, which is obviously available to the news magazine, the investigation begins with the 9th. It appears in April that the error has arisen that there must therefore be a result on this or the following days. This was not the case and was unfortunately also explained to you in vain. At the time, the Federal Food Research and Research Institute did not yet have a method of detection that reached the point of forensic safety. The Federal Food Research Institute therefore participated in an international ring test, which was completed in mid-September. ==References====External links== September. ==References== ==References====External links== The sample was sent to the Braunschweig State Food Investigation Office to secure the result – after all, it was the first positive sample. We received the confirmation of the result on 24 March. October. The Ministry of Consumer Protection subsequently received our report. That is to say, it is also very clear that effective control must, of course, have the appropriate resources, namely financial, spatial and also human resources. And I believe – and we probably agree – that the increase in funds in the coming budget year from 35 million to 36 million will not be enough in the future if we want to have a really efficient control. I can only warn against a discussion on the distribution and privatisation of this food research body, as it has been put into space several times, because I believe that a privatized control has a very massive problem of independence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want the Austrians to be able to rely on the label, on pickerln, on guarantees, and we therefore need effective and independent control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7720	Mr Dr. Ofner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7741	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies' lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! From the Federal Chancellor's Office, I would like to deal with the sector of ethnic group policy and ethnic activity. We experience the national councils in their activities. There's six in the number, we all know. They carry out their work as it is possible and provided under the law – no more. It would also be very difficult to do more, because the national councils, one for each of the six indigenous groups in Austria, are in fact only subject to consideration as representatives of the respective ethnic groups and their families. They consist essentially of the representatives of associations and associations in which one state is clearly and in the other less clearly party-political. That is, red-oriented and black-oriented people's group representatives sit almost exclusively, sometimes garnished with representatives of the Church, in the national councils, and we liberals believe that this is not good. We are of the opinion that it is necessary to break the heads of the people's councils in such a way that they are, in fact, considered representative by each of the members of the group concerned. This can only be achieved in the way that the national councils are elected by the representatives of the ethnic groups, so that the national councils are really the representatives of the ethnic group members and not of associations formed at least partly by members of the ethnic groups. We are all called upon to make a difference in this sector. Such a representative body, who is freely elected, would also be entitled to interfere more clearly in the political events, to make itself more visible than is currently available to the national councils. It could have, for example, a proposal right, a hearing right, also a veto right, at least a suspensive veto right in national law, but also in federal legal matters, when it comes to special interests of the ethnic groups. We liberals could also imagine that in the respective country days a viril mandate is available for a national group member, a viril mandate occupied by a national group member, even if the votes of the voters from the respective ethnic groups were not enough to win a mandate. The closer arrangements could easily be taken into account. I know that the resistance of the government parties in this context is considerable, but if you want to make progress in the sector of the representation of the ethnic groups, this will be one of the ways to make such progress. I should like to take the opportunity once again to point out that the position of the ethnic groups in Austria is very different. We are experiencing groups of people who are happy to stand there, who can expand their position, who are also flourishing and, in a sense, growing according to the number of their families. The final light is still being formed, and it will probably be so for a long time, the Roma and Sinti. Unfortunately, we have to observe a development which we have not been able to imagine so clearly. After the horrendous homicide of Oberwart, politicians from different parties overcame themselves in Sunday speeches in which they produced promises to the members of the ethnic group on the ongoing band. Already at that time it was clear that it did not go far beyond the speeches. Much has been missed for their fulfillment. It is now clear that the attack, like others, has not been made by a mysterious, powerful, underground, right-wing organization, but by a single perpetrator from a southern Styrian community who has not had all the cups in the closet. And already the interest goes down clearly. Nobody cares about the Roma and Sinti and their concerns. [[Abg. Dr. Pittermann: That's not true at all!]] I address the urgent appeal to you, even now, where it is established that the Roma and Sinti who have been murdered have not become the victims of political attacks, but a single madman, in order to accept these poorest of the poor people and their families, more clearly than before, more clearly than before. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should like to repeat that, in contrast to the other groups, the Roma are concerned that they are not only politically solidified and in their political position they find a corresponding support, but that they are probably the only people with their families who urgently need social protection. In this sector, it is decades to centuries to come, and it is not good for us now that we can no longer abuse the sad events of Oberwart in the face of day-to-day change, to completely forget the Roma and Sinti again. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that this cannot happen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7785	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7806	Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, my lord from the People's Procuratorate! Mr President. Actually, today is a very important day, Mrs. Volksanwalt. Today we have our national holiday dedicated to Saint Martin, and we Burgenländer would probably be preparing for Martini-Gansl now – the Paul Kiss will give me a right. Is that right, Paul? But it is also an important day, because within 18 months we will now adopt the third budget and the fourth budget in Bälden, so four consolidation budgets, and we can also point to this hard work and be proud. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Politics is taking hold. The message is: Austria's economy is moving upward. Proof number one: We have been the first country in Europe to handle the budgetary difficulties. The bowl course is grasping. The budget deficit would have been 8 percent, today it is 2.8%. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Where did you lose the ditz?]] Second evidence, Dr. Ofner: Austria has a sensational low inflation rate of just over 1 percent. In other words, monetary stability has never been more constant or bigger than it is in the last 50 years. Third evidence: We are in the unemployment rate calculation behind Luxembourg. So we have a standard of 5.8 percent, while the EU average is 10.9%. That's facts, and there's more to show. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In this general speech it would have been better if you had gone to the Martini-Gansl-Essen!]] Even experts give us the right to contribute to this consolidation course. Two are just mentioned. One expert is Dr. Genser, who believes that the decline in net debt is a considerable act of strength, a stabilisation success, an acknowledged achievement. The second expert is Dr Schneider, and he believes that there has been a great deal of success in the direction of Maastricht criteria. So there are the right steps. This includes the adoption of the package last week in the ASVG area, the farmers, the tradesmen and the officials. I would like to insist on the word "official" because the child is very happy to be thrown out with the bath, and there is a real Hatz against a professional group. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But only in Burgenland!]] If I just look at the messages of Jörg Haider, for example, in "daily everything": "We have a state that one third of the officials work nothing at all, one third shifts service according to regulation, and one third does work for the others." – These are statements by opposition politicians, and one must correct in this House that these statements are simply wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: First you betrayed the officials, and now they're verbally good again!]] I'll go one step further: We confess to the civil service, we also confess to Pragmatization and we will also receive it where it is essential. I cannot imagine, for example, that in areas such as the Court of Auditors, the public prosecutors and the like, we are abolishing Pragmatization. The Court of Auditors in particular is an institution which is expected to explore various public areas in a competent, factual and critical manner. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can do that without Pragmatization!]] As a member of the Committee on the Board of Auditors, I can only give these officials the best witness. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's all a contradiction!]] When I talk about further development, I think that we have to think about a new salary system – currently these officials are paid after the general administration – we have to think about incentives. We can still do a lot of things here. I think it is time to show these benefits in this House accordingly. If I only make the reference pyramid, there were a total of 100 days needed for this, and for the extra effort in chamber examinations, 1 600 days were required in 1997 alone and and and. That is to say, the fault lies also with us, the legislator, because we have a great deal of bureaucracy on our officials through more and more laws. So we should look for the fault with ourselves. I therefore believe that these officials deserved to appreciate them today and to thank them for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7925	The next item is Mrs Inge Jäger's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7950	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I am speaking on the subject of women, and I would like to say in principle that I am very glad that we have the Ministry of Women. Of course, it is financially far too small, but I am still pleased that we now have a new section leader – that is to say, Mr Schöggl. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Hoffmann is the fourth woman next to 81 male colleagues, and this alone shows how much we need to move on in the women's question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I now give all my previous speakers the right to say that it is only when we see this subject as a cross-sectional matter that all social realities, thus every law and all political measures are assessed whether they benefit women or whether they harm women, that is, if we actually apply the gender perspective to all the laws. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At present, the biggest challenge – and many points of women’s popular desire – is the independent financial security of women. That's right up to the pension. Today, in Austria, we have 180 000 women without their own pensions, and of those women who have a pension, two-thirds are compensation recipients. The Minister for Women has had a look at these women when it comes to budget creation, and there are some budget accompanying laws that go in the right direction. This includes the inclusion of all employment and, above all, the inclusion of minor employees in social and pension insurance. That this was necessary, all the figures clearly show. We are seeing a marked increase in small employment. Thus, the number of minor employees rose by 10 percent from March 1996 to March 1997, i.e. within a single year. In retail trade there was an increase of 11.6 per cent in the number of women with little employment after changing shop opening hours from December 1996 to March 1997, while at the same time the number of women unemployed in trade is rising by 4.2 per cent. It is clear that women's employment is really the only financial security in old age, and it is above all so important because we live in times of social change. Today, marriage is no longer a care facility. That is, if every third marriage is divorced – in some cities already every second marriage – then we must take account of this reality, and we must support the women in that they, like the men, can also pursue paid work. It is not so – and this has already been mentioned by my colleague – that the women would not work, but it is about dividing paid work, but also the unpaid care work, namely, justly dividing between men and women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now one can be of different opinion and also have different values, but if our Mr. Family Minister Bartenstein – I can only reply today – goes to the family debate and accuses us of social democrats, we force women into the factories, then I must already ask: What is the reality of Mr. Family Minister? At the same time, I read on Monday in the "profile" that his own wife manager is a big business, feels overloaded, but can do her work because she has the necessary security with housekeeper, babysitter and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Gar Manager!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: That doesn't fit together!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, therefore, it is very important that we support those women who do not have this income, those who depend on public childcare, and that we really work to ensure that something is done for these women in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8030	The next speaker is Mrs Cordula Frieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8052	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter "Top Institutions" gives an opportunity to discuss infinitely many issues, but there is also an opportunity to consider this "high" house – as it is called – and the Members themselves critical. On the occasion of the urgent request made last Friday, Mr Wabl stated that the reference for Members, however high he may be – whether 100 000 S, 50 000 S or 20 000 S – is not accepted by the citizen. He has also found that we have failed and overlooked graves in this regard. Now we all feel that we are working infinitely, that we have already completed our 35-hour week on Tuesdays and that we are going to interrupt three 35-hour weeks from Tuesdays to Tuesdays. We hate party events on citizens' initiatives, protests to fire brigades, and we hate the parliament where we produce law-making. However, I am not going to be bored with the flood of laws again, because I am now very hopeful that we will now be able to meet this phenomenon efficiently after the Liberal Forum and the Green Group have also recognized and located this phenomenon. On the other hand, I would like to say on the contrary, Mr Moser, that since its very existence these two groups have never effectively contributed to dealing with this problem, and on the contrary, you do not need to be disillusioned: [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Why not?]] They have enriched each legislative proposal, any submission with amendments or additional requests. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: To make it better, the law!]] No, no, no, Unlike Mr Fischer, who at least once tried to interpret an important law, I cannot say that of you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: We need to discuss this in detail!]] The second reason for the low acceptance of Members with the citizens lies in my view in the image that we convey here in the house via screen or the visitors to the gallery. A very worrying picture! Remember how most of the debates really end up in mud battles, with human dignity often no longer seem to be a criterion. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Are you saying this for television now?]] No, that's what I'm saying to colleagues. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The next speech please again with concept!]] – Not to be forgotten is actionism with the Stinkefinger, and I could list many, many other misbehaviors here in the house. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Your behavior is certainly a misbehavior!]] I therefore believe that the single disciplinary measure in this House is not sufficient. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Exploit!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Intelligence Quotient!]] No, Mr Cap, unfortunately, what you do not know is that in many Western democracies – and you will certainly accept Germany or the United States as democracies – the ban on speech, even the withdrawal of the mandate as a disciplinary measure for a misbehavior. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How would it be if you were to comply with the ban on smoking? Why are you always bothering us as a chain smoker?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I therefore cannot agree with your view that this is an obstacle to the free mandate. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 11. 11.: Fasching!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I believe that we should rethink these points, says our work here in Parliament and our actions here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8230	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8251	I am not sure whether the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats can also take these greetings out of the Chamber of Political Torture. [[Sociability and applause at SPÖ and Abg. Dr Gredler.]] I'd think you should discuss this once in-between. I don't want to bring myself in too much. It is important to me in this context that I use the 5 minutes here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Cap, you have no emotional intelligence!]] We have already discussed all of this in committee, as far as the understanding of the laws and the excess of laws is concerned, and I have always told the colleague to speak, please, whenever she considers that we are adopting a useless law. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: More emotionality!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She does, Mr. Cap!]] She's supposed to come out and say, That's something useless again today! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She is so successful that many laws are not passed at all! You just don't notice that!]] So I'm very skeptical about this campaign you're running. But let us discuss this in peace; I do not want to devote my 5 minutes to your legal argument. Rather, it is a need for me to use the short time to have a discussion on the role understanding of artists and intellectuals – perhaps that will fit into this issue again. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Emotional intelligence! Emotional!]] – Well, the IQ test is supposed to have more intellectuals in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He doesn't have much!]] Although we have tried with the introduction of a advisory system to achieve a decoupling from the political wishes, although we are discussing new instruments of art promotion, we cannot mention savings in the art budget, although a film promotion law is now being introduced, the federal theatre reform is being debated and finalized, and there is a debate about art mediation – that is, something is happening in Austria in the arts and culture sector – we are regularly confronted with ideologically motivated attacks that are led with the most terrible formulations. If I add a few short contributions to the discussion about the page 80 of the Haider book – you will allow me to make the following sentence under the title "Streicht die Knete": "The state is thus creating not only a political instrument, but also a cultural monopoly that would not have a chance in the free competition. At his feet lie the grateful state artists and lick his shoes." What this has for a place in the discourse about intellectuals and artists is a sluggish thing to me, if not behind the agitation towards the so-called art bureaucracy, the art apparatus and the dedicated artists. For I think on page 79 he then leaves the Sau out – as you say in good Viennese. That's exactly what it says: "However, it will become a embarrassing layman game if he" – the critical artist – "on behalf of the state power fights directly or indirectly against the political opponent in democracy." This is hard at the border of censorship – or even better – which is actually the presumption that only one artist is politically committed to Jörg Haider or to the Freeman. But that should be clearly discussed in this art debate! Parliamentary Krüger is sitting there, but has never expressed himself. I would like to hear your opinion and learn what you say about art being defined in this way. I think we could have a very broad debate on this, and not only at the level on which people did this in the "profile" by letting themselves out in a little language and with the sentence "With the death of Sartre, the last European intellectual has died" has been critically discussed. It is more important to ask the question: What's an intellectual at all? On this subject, the article by Michael Ignativ im "Spiegel" is of course very interesting. It's just that he defines it completely differently. He does not say either that the last intellectual died with Sartre, but he says that the classical intellectual in the sense of Voltaires, as it was formulated in 1733, is in the present age flawed goods and should also occur in relation to science criticism, for example in relation to political criticism. And there he defines: "...but first Voltaire" – I quote –"he invented the public intellectuals: the scourges of the Church, the sting in the flesh of the princes, the ironic, pointed habitat in the salons of beautiful women." That's about how we define them in the 18th century. ==References== I now have to ask the question: What should the critical intellectual do today? – To discuss this would, as I think, once a debate which would certainly be of utmost interest in the sense of the definition that intellectuals are the inventors and guardians of the great stories about our where and where to go, the interpreters who lead the great discourse, but not how it stands right here – I can only feel it as self-criticism; I quote –: Kleinkrämer, provincialists, touched, vain, holding no criticism that every artist who is critical of them agrees that he is an artist. That's not a discourse, it's just pathetic!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8369	The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8390	Mr President. Honourable representatives of the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen at the Ministerial Bank! High house! I have noticed that none of the three opposition parties in their debates have dealt directly with the Austrian Court of Auditors today. I conclude that this establishment of the National Council will continue to enjoy a high degree of acceptance among all the parties to this House in the future. The standard of control bodies and the institutions of civil participation, such as the People's Procuratorate, is a measure of democratic development, of the state of maturity of democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria can be seen at national and international level with both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Auditors. That is why I would like to thank the staff working there and those in charge of top positions. I am convinced that we will not abolish these institutions, for as long as there are people, there will also be shortcomings, but it is about minimizing errors and shortcomings. As a member of the Court of Auditors, I am always convinced of the high level of expertise, the great objectivity and the sense of responsibility of those involved. I can also say from my experience that there have hardly even been substantial corrections to statements and reports by the Court of Auditors. I also admire the endless patience of the Court of Auditors' staff when our political groups deliver business-orientated sham caps. We are therefore concerned to discuss the status of the officials of the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate on the occasion of the debate on the situation and position of officials in the future. If one assumes that the highest institutions of the Republic, the countries and the municipalities must be examined that the institutions of the sovereignty of our state, the state security bodies and also the Austrian federal army must be examined, then it must also be possible to establish the conditions for effective control. That means: If one has to examine organs that enjoy the protection of the state representing the State, then the examining bodies also need the same protection of the State. Audible auditors without legal protection from the Republic are limited in their scope of action. I bring a simple example: It is difficult for a civilian to arrest a gendarmen, but this is very likely to happen. The minimum requirement to be made is that there should be a balance in the service status between the examiners and the examiners. The logical consequence of this is that Pragmatization for auditors of the Court of Auditors, but also for public prosecutors, will continue in the future. It is a legitimate state interest that: There is a level playing field between the two partners. The second reason I support this Pragmatization is that the Court of Auditors and the public prosecutors also need highly qualified staff. If there is no incentive for highly trained examiners and employees, then very soon the professional motivation will be eliminated. Without adequate legal protection – I may formulate it relatively prudently – the audit activity becomes a farce. Therefore, the People's Party advocates maintaining the Pragmatisation of the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Two more comments to the conclusion. First: In my experience, there is no evidence to suggest that the objectivity of post-contracting in the Court of Auditors has to be doubted. Secondly, There is no evidence that raw reports from the Court of Auditors are passed on to employees. It is rather true that these raw reports will always see the light of the public as soon as they are passed on to the bodies to be examined. I would like to point this out because it is. Therefore, the following conclusions: The Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate continue to have the confidence of the Austrian People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8457	Next speaker is Mrs Edith Haller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8481	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mrs. Minister! High house! Since this is already my second speech today, I will be very brief, although we can say a lot more on this issue – I am talking about the work of the public prosecutors; this too is permitted in this context. I am concerned that, unfortunately, legitimate suggestions from the public prosecutor's office are not kept in mind and ad acta. One example of this is compensation under the distribution law of the GDR. Since 1994, critical cases have already been raised, in which compensations already granted with discretion have not been fully paid in accordance with this distribution law of the GDR, namely only 70 percent. 30 percent are still open. This concerns 19 cases with a total amount of 40.92 million schilling. Wait for years Therefore, those affected by the payment of these amounts, which have been duly granted to them. The Public Prosecutor's Office has already pointed out in its eighteenth report that this would require a change of law in order to be able to make advances in order to enable the persons concerned to benefit more quickly from these payments. There is already the 20th report. I was introduced to the Minister of Finance this spring because of an occasion in which the person concerned addressed me, and the Minister of Finance has promised to complete this matter until autumn. The autumn is not yet completely over, but so far we do not have a new regulation of this law in view. From this point of view, from this point of view, I would like to ask Mr Finanzminister to keep his promise, and I would like to call on the whole of our government to comply with the proposals of the People's Procuratorate, which all of them have their right to do in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8527	The next speaker is Mrs Gisela Wurm. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8548	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Back to the women. Just yesterday, political scientist Professor Emmerich Tálos presented new research results at a special meeting of the Austrian Bishops' Conference, which assumes that about a million Austrians must live at least temporarily under the minimum of existence. Many of the people at risk of poverty live in rural areas. Tálos calls the lack of childcare facilities one of the main reasons for the risk of poverty in the country. In the last double budget, the SPÖ women were known to enforce the so-called kindergarten billions despite savings packages. The funds allocated to 600 million schillings, in addition to an unestimated impulse for the construction industry, were particularly important for the creation of many new kindergartens. Until now, 796 new kindergartens have been created in Tyrol alone, and by the end of the campaign next year there will be expected to be 1 250 places. [[Demonstrative applause by Dr Gredler and Mag. Peter.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not only are 10,000 kindergartens established across Austria, as has been claimed here, but more than 15,000 such places are created. This at least helps to relieve poverty on a punctual basis. Considering the dramatic change for women on the Austrian labour market, we see that this kindergarten billion was urgently needed. The number of women working part-time and, above all, the number of women with little employment is very high. Mr Jäger has already pointed out that within the last three years, the number of women with little employment has increased by 60 per cent, namely to over 100 000, more precisely, 118 000 women. In retail trade, where business hours were "liberalized" for customers, but not for salesmen, the number of women with little employment rose by 26 percent in a year, from March 1996 to March 1997. These women, who often have to engage in several such employment relationships, usually have to deal with low family incomes and are often single-parents, urgently need care places for their children so that they can somehow cope with their multiple loads. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a great blessing for these women to be socially insured even in the event of minor employment. That really helps the disadvantaged of our society! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] High house! I would like to address two measures – a regulation and a law – which have an increasing impact on the 1998 budget, but which are very important and forward-looking. As a Tyrolean, of course, I am particularly pleased that 1998 will also be the year in Innsbruck when a equal treatment lawyer will take up her work. In addition to Vienna, there is now also this institution in Innsbruck. This is so important because it has been shown that there is a strong East-West gap in concerns and complaints. This gap is clearly due to the fact that the way to Vienna for women in the West of Austria is difficult, costly and also unreasonablely long. This situation is now being eroded by the new equal treatment lawyer, who is headquartered in western Austria. To the law "protection against violence in the family", which was decided here in the House about a year ago. In order to implement this law, intervention agencies are informed. Five such intervention agencies will start their work next year. I am particularly pleased that the funding is guaranteed. The use of Minister Prammer, former Minister Konrad and the entire Ministry of Women is due to the fact that the intervention agencies can now work. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Steibl.]] In addition to the Ministry of Women, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Family Affairs has also made its contribution. But it is also particularly important to mention the Minister of the Interior Schlögl and his ministry, because this ministry bears the main burden of financing. My hope and conviction – and, as I believe, the hope of all women – is that the work of the intervention agencies will lead to a significant stop in the prevention and early interaction of the various authorities of violence in the family, which has already taken terrifying proportions. Ladies and gentlemen! If this makes it possible for many women and children to live more fear-free again in Austria, it must be worth the State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am therefore pleased that these intervention agencies have now become reality after many years of struggle and that they have also been financially secured.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8654	The next speaker is Mrs Hannelore Buder. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8713	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! In Austria it has been said since 1920 that the principle of equal treatment was stated by the legislator that all federal citizens are equal. In 1979, the law on equal treatment for men and women was adopted in determining the remuneration, in 1985 the law on equal treatment for men and women in working life was created, in 1990 the law on equal treatment was amended, and the last amendment was made in 1993. The occupational disadvantage of women has been prohibited, and the law has been in force since 1990. But what does it actually look like? What about the compatibility of family and profession? What social policy measures have been taken to take into account the disadvantage of women, the fact that they are or can become mothers? Is there an active promotion of women? What about the security of life for women of old age, invalidity, unemployment, and how far are we going to be in the enforcement of equal treatment? In order to reconcile work and family – which has already been said many times today – women actually have to be masters in time management. And even then it is often still such that planning only works if the family is well organized and everyone tries to make its contribution. But what does it look like if a child gets sick, because in least cases the man is willing to take advantage of the care leave he also has, or what do single parents without Grandma or another person who accepts their children? Ladies and gentlemen! It is still true that, as long as employers can or have children, women are less valued than their male colleagues, although employers always point out that women are dependable workers. In this regard, a rethinking of society is urgently needed. Men are expected to be employed when a woman is employed – and that is 1.6 million women in Austria! – also contribute to housework and child care. It is still a fact that even if women are high in education, they still have fewer career opportunities. It is true that women at first sight even have good conditions for their careers because of their training. 28 percent of the self-employed have a degree with Matura, one third of which are even graduates of a university. The male self-employed workers in Austria, on the other hand, only bring it to 20 percent maturants, of which almost one third are academics. Nevertheless, the domestic top positions are firmly in male hands. 12 percent of male workers have gained leadership in the Austrian private sector or in the public sector. On the other hand, only 3 percent of female professionals are in senior positions. It is absolutely essential that a trend change be made in this area at last. For while 7 percent of men under the age of 40 are already in senior positions, female employees in this age group are only 2 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore important that the Ministry of Women is established in the Federal Chancellery. For, of course, in the future, the Minister of Women must pay greater attention to the fact that the laws adopted for equal treatment and were actually implemented. We would also like it to have more resources available for this. It is also no wonder that women later have financial disadvantages in retirement, or even in unemployment, if they know that 90 percent of parttime work is carried out by women. I know that part-time jobs are desired by many women, but the disadvantages only occur later, just as with the minor employees who say in part: I've been working for a lifetime. That is why I am very glad that the change in labour law last week has provided a social security for minor employees. I am also glad that women who have to care for family members from the age of 5 and have therefore had to give up the profession can pay in favour of pension insurance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What about active women's promotion? – Public procurement as an instrument for the promotion of women triggers the most fierce resistance. In Austria, there are currently only three private enterprises that have decided on women's promotion plans in the framework of business agreements. Most companies oppose it – with the argument that women's promotion is burdening the economy. The equal treatment laws are certainly essential markers in order to facilitate women's working life and to open up new opportunities, because it should not be the case that women with a legitimate self-esteem will later become women with a lack of self-confidence because they have to experience that not an actual achievement counts, but only their assessment by society. And that's still a man-world assessment. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I think we should have more women in traditional men's occupations in the future, more women in senior positions and bosses and, of course, more women in Parliament, because of the many other tasks and jobs we are happy to give part to men.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8786	The next item is Mrs Konrad's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8816	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! I too would like to take a brief look at women's policy and make some comments on women's policy as a necessary part of government policy. How necessary is women's policy, has recently shown an event here in the House, in Parliament, under the title "Women's Tidal Beijing Far Away?", which took place as a follow-up conference of the Fourth World Women's Conference and made it clear that women who are women's policy are motors and driving forces for many changes, even though then often other resorts are home to the so-called laurels. Important progress in Austrian politics would simply not have been made without the women's resort in the government, which can be said so. I just mention a few examples: Austria is exemplary in the fight against violence against women. The law against violence in the family has been drawn up and implemented, and it is certainly not reasonable to say that we would not be so far, if women had not been involved in it massively and if the women's ministers had not been involved in it. Justice and police are constantly being trained. This is a matter of course today, but the initial inflammation for this has also come from the women's policy, from the women's resort, from the Minister of Women at a time when it has not yet been possible to imagine how important it is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The intervention agencies have already been mentioned several times today, and they would not have been able to do so if the commitment of the women's minister, the women's resort, had not been made available and the appropriate financial resources had also been made available for the time being. On the question of women's trafficking, for example, the women's resort was the resort that gave the initial inflammation. In Austria, there is already the first female victim protection facility for victims of trafficking in women. Even when it comes to the question of the revision of the matrimonial and family law towards better distribution of obligations and responsibility in a relationship, in a marriage, i.e. the partnership distribution of the care work, the initial inflammation has taken place from the women's resort. In addition, there will be a number of improvements for women, both during marriage and after divorce, such as improved maintenance arrangements or the strengthening of the position of women in the share of assets and much more. It has often been mentioned today that one has at last gone a step further in the history of the regionalization of the equal treatment lawyer, with a very concrete, regionalized position next year. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That would also be a job for you!]] The development of qualified childcare facilities was also mentioned. It's moving forward. However, I would like to say the following – Mrs Schaffenrath is here –: It cannot be said that the Minister for Women is now being blamed. My predecessor did this at all on the subject and recognized the importance. As Minister of Women, I have received at least this 600 million schilling from the federal government. But childcare is still the task of the countries, the countries are getting the money in the context of the financial compensation, and it is also the task of the countries to set priorities here. And I think we have to put pressure there and not just the Minister of Women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Business Women's Centre was set up as a measure in the fight against women's unemployment and has already established itself as an important tool for business start-ups. Not everything we women demand, what we want to put in place, costs money, but a lot of things already, and this has to be done in budget items and should be anchored there. These projects and activities are politically important and are essential for the social security of the majority of our population. These institutions, which I have mentioned, are essential and indispensable elements of social security to which women in our country have a right, starting from the intervention agencies, through the anti-violence programmes, through the protection of victims and the childcare facilities. They are not luxury, but in the truest sense of the word "food". That women's policy in the government is not a breadbread, but a necessary part of government policy, will show once again when Austria will be invited to a Council of Ministers for Equality next year in the course of the EU Presidency. So far, women's concerns and matters have been discussed in other Councils of Ministers. This should be different for the first time in the coming year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I welcome this measure as an important step in the right direction. On the one hand, women's perspectives must continue to play a role in all areas, and on the other hand, there needs to be a place where a targeted women's policy discourse can take place. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8874	The next speaker is Mrs Heidemaria Onodi. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8898	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! The budget proposal for the Art chapter is an expression of the fact that the State must not steal from its cultural responsibility. The task of the state is also to promote all kinds of art. It is not a reduction in resources but a balance between the pressure to budget sparingly and the desire to promote cultural development in our country. Compared to the success of 1996 and 1997, there are slightly more expenditures in the field of visual and performing art, music and literature in the Federal Proposal for 1998, particularly in the field of filming, with increases planned in 1997 and 1998 compared to 1996. But it is not only this, as we know from the discussions with the filmmakers, that it is a mere increase, but a meaningful use of the means. Finally, it is also about restructuring the film world. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must not overlook the relationship here. Thus, the budget item art is about 1.15 billion schilling, while for the post Bundestheater over 3 billion schilling are estimated. But also at the Bundestheaters, the restructuring measures have shown success. No further reductions are foreseen for 1998 compared with 1997. Nevertheless, we should not be afraid of further efforts to get the Austrian cultural flagship into the 21st century. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! If we compare our cultural budget with those of other European countries, I must say, we are in the lead with France. After all, almost 1 percent of the total budget flows into the culture. In other countries, the figure is 0.5% and 0.6% respectively. The budget is a commitment to the art and artists of Austria and to ensuring the high quality of their work.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8931	Next word: Dr. Jarolim. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8953	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! I would like to deal briefly with the Constitutional Court, which is because, on the one hand, it has already been addressed a few times in connection with the recent knowledge today, and on the other hand, because today, unfortunately, the statement has been made by the judicial spokesman of the ÖVP – which I am taking away from the APA issue – is that there is a lack of democratic understanding and the lack of acceptance of the rule of law to the social democratic coalition partner. I would now like to say a few words about this because I believe that this is something that has been covered. In the recent debate on the recognition of the Constitutional Court, which I wish to expressly hold, we have not put ourselves in confrontation with the Constitutional Court, but we have put the knowledge he has taken, the assignment he has made, in relation to the laws, federal constitutional laws and laws adopted by us. We have discussed what is legally possible and what is not possible under the federal constitutional laws. However, we have not attacked the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Not you, Dr. Jarolim! But the Minister for Women has rejected the implementation!]] No, Mrs. Colleague! Please let me speak out. I think it is undisputed that we are here adopting laws, discussing laws, proposing laws that we adopt federal constitutional laws and simple laws. The Constitutional Court is not a legislative body, but only if we adopt a law, has to assess whether this is possible within the framework of the federal constitution. That is what he has done and has come to the conclusion that a tax law is not possible here. We have asked whether the Constitutional Court's finding that this is not possible is in line with the political intention, which means that more funding will be made available to children from well-off homes than to children from less well-informed homes. We say no, we don't want to. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Colleague! To hold this discussion here has nothing to do with attacking the Constitutional Court, but it is simply about discussing legal drafts here so that we can come to a different solution in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Constitutional Court did not recognize this, but he recognized the principle of equality as a violation!]] That's just the point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second point that was put into space was the question of the so-called Arbiter dictum or ditting opinion. What's this about? – It is basically about the fact that judges elected at the Constitutional Court at their lifetimes have a scientific debate on how they stand on the requests submitted, that they weigh how they value the laws, the federal laws, and then reach an agreement. Our view is that every constitutional judge should have the right – the right, I say – if he considers it necessary and has a different opinion to express this opinion. For my part, it must not happen in the form that he does it with his name, which can also happen anonymously. However, I believe that it is in line with our legal culture that such a high-quality discussion should also be made available to the public so that we can benefit from it. No one can seriously claim that this is at risk of the level of discussion. There are also a number of courts in which this is already the case. For example, in the Anglo-American area – America and Great Britain – there is no question that there is such a thing. In Germany, there is no question that there is such a thing. The European Court of Human Rights has such a system, and even the European Court of Justice has something similar, because there is a wide-ranging implementation of the requests of the Advocates-General on the basis of the decision they want. If the Court of Justice rejects it and does not follow it, it has to justify it. That means that the entire range of discussions of the different opinions is recognizable there too. I believe that this leads to a further development of the legal culture, and nothing but that we have demanded, that this should also be the case in Austria. It is not an obligation, but a right for the judges of the Constitutional Court. I would ask you not to accuse us of a lack of democratic understanding in this context, but to invite you to clarify in the discussion whether this proposal is not ultimately what you want. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9015	Mr Volksanwalt Schender came to speak. - Please, Mr. Volksanwalt.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9037	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Some speakers have dealt with the Austrian People's Procuratorate – mostly in a positive way – and I can address some details referred to in the debate. ==References====External links== Parliamentary report of the People's Procuratorate, which has been before the House since May this year, can be found a number of suggestions from the Public Prosecutor's Office on the development of this institution, a series of proposals to amend the Federal Constitution and to amend the Public Prosecutor's Act. Now, a number of ladies and gentlemen of the opposition have made a positive statement on these proposals today, and the People's Procuratorate is also aware that a number of proposals for initiative have already been made to the House of Commons, but in various modifications as they have been prepared by the Public Procuratorate. Mr Herzegovina has also dealt with these proposals and, above all, has taken a critical look at the areas in question. He said that the People's Procuratorate would get capacity problems, she would continue to check all that she's been testing for 20 years. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing this. We want to continue to examine all that has been successfully examined by the People's Procuratorate for 20 years, even if it has been distributed from the budget of the National Council and the Federal Government, such as the Bundesbahnen, the Bundespost, the Bundesforste, the Bundestheater, as has been said today, the Bundessportheime, as the Secretary of State has announced, the food control and much more. All that has already been examined and examined, but which has been or will still be distributed for budgetary reasons, should, in our opinion, continue to be subject to the public prosecutor's control in order to enable the citizen seeking help to have at least a complaint and complaint about these distributed institutions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, only checks the conduct of these distributed areas. To consider whether citizens are satisfied with these institutions is not the task of the Court of Auditors, but that would be the task of the public prosecutors. Now the Minister of Finance tells us 14 days ago that we should be able to take this opportunity to examine the distributed areas, because that would be diametrically contrary to the privatisation idea, and it would certainly be possible for any citizen to take the civil justice path if he had problems with these institutions which have now been distributed. There will be a huge run, ladies and gentlemen, to the Austrian District Courts if all that has so far been brought to the public prosecutor's office about these matters will have to be dealt with before the small district court. I should like to draw attention to the fact that it would be desirable, at least from the point of view of the public prosecutor's office, if some areas could be corrected out of court, with the help of an institution such as that of the public prosecutor's office. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In France the popular attorney is called mediaeur, he is the mediator between the citizen and the authorities and the administration. We are also doing so in many cases – and with great success, ladies and gentlemen! We help people to save themselves a lot of money, save themselves a lot of effort and many ways of administration, and we save them, above all, many judicial disputes through our activities. This should no longer be possible in all these areas in the future! I would remind you that, for example, the federal states are calling on them to remove the sewerage, water supply and waste disposal and to manage it in Gesmbhs. Also these areas would land in front of the judge in the future if the citizen had difficulty with his canal fees or believed to receive too much garbage. We do believe that it would be advisable to deal seriously with this appeal of the public prosecutors. We very much hope that there will be an opportunity to present this proposal and a number of other suggestions from the Public Procuratorate in the 20th century. Parliament's report is to be discussed in depth in a committee. We would be very pleased and very honored if you, ladies and gentlemen, would also join us in these deliberations. Mr Herzegovina has also dealt with the legitimate suggestions. These legitimate suggestions will be made, at the request of the Austrian National Council, on the basis of a resolution in the XVII. The legislative period allocated annually to the Austrian National Council, and these suggestions are only a result of our audit activity. Here we inform the National Council where in the correct application of legal standards there are unfair hardships for the citizen who cannot be in the sense and in the spirit of the law and of the legislator. We would like to draw the attention of the legislator to the fact that, as far as possible, these unfair hardships should be remedied in the interest of greater civil kindness. In this we see our task, Mr Deputies, and not in making legislative proposals. That would go far beyond our tasks. This is the inspiration of the Parliamentary Club of Greens, which makes us feel very honored, but this is not primarily our intention, but we want to be only legitimate in the future – also legally legitimate – to be allowed to submit these legitimate suggestions to the National Council – not just because of a resolution from the XVII. legislative period. Mr Wurmitzer asked for the protection of public prosecutors and the Court of Auditors through Pragmatization in the future. The three Volksanwälte are unanimously behind this demand, ladies and gentlemen. We would urge you to bear in mind, when considering any Pragmatization in the future, that the public prosecutors and the Court of Auditors need special protection by the Republic of Austria, otherwise they could be exposed to pressure which could be quite hindering their freedom of movement. We would therefore ask you not to forget, in any debate on restrictions, reductions in Pragmatizations, that the Court of Auditors, as well as the public prosecutor's office, also need special protection in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to inform you that the three lawyers next week in the Constitutional Committee and in the plenary session of the Austrian Federal Council for the first time were 20th. Report to the National Council and will be debated there with the ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Council on the invitation of the Federal Council. We are very pleased that they have given us this opportunity, and of course we will be happy to make use of this possibility. I would like to thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who have found kind words in the debate on the activities of the People's Procuratorate, for your praises of our institution and may ask you to remember the intentions of the People's Procuratorate regarding further development and at any rate invite us to a debate with you at the appropriate time. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9124	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. A final word by Mrs Special Rapporteur is not wanted. We shall therefore proceed to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the Advisory Group I of the Federal Proposal for 1998. This includes Chapters 01 to 06 of the Federal Proposal in 841 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 910 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has made a request for a separate vote on the 02 budget chapter. I will therefore first vote on these parts and finally on the remaining parts of the financial legal approaches of the advisory group I of the Federal proposal. In this sense, I would like to begin by voting on the financial legal approaches of the budget chapter 02 of the 1998 Federal Proposal in 841 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. This budget chapter has been adopted by a majority. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the financial legal approaches of the advisory group I of the Federal Proposal for 1998, as amended by the Government's proposal. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign in this regard. – This is also adopted by a majority. I shall now vote on the resolution annexed to the Special Report 910 of the Supplements on the creation of a day of commemoration against violence and racism in memory of the victims of National Socialism. In the event of consent, I would like a sign on this matter. This resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 90.) According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled in today's proceedings of the Consultative Group I of the Federal Finance Act. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. I therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler and comrades on the harmonisation of pension systems. A vote on this request has been requested, and as this request has been made by 20 Members, the vote has to be taken. I shall vote in such a way that Members are called in alphabetical order and that the vote from the square of Members is taken orally. For the purpose of the vote, I ask the votesmen to rise from the place after calling for a name and to reply in a loud and clear way. Those Members who are in favour of the request of the honourable Member. I shall vote in favour of Stadler and comrades, and I will try to answer with No to those who vote against Stadler's request. By repeating the name and replaying the voting behaviour, I will create additional clarity about voting behaviour. I now begin with the call of the names and ask to answer with yes or no.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9236	I am now briefly interrupting the sitting to announce the results of the vote. The names are recorded in the stenographic protocol. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 6.38 p.m. and resumed at 6.42 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9264	I'll start the interrupted session again. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are further votes, and I would like to mention the following results: 163 votes were cast, 38 votes in 'Yes', 125 in 'No' votes. The application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be recorded in the minutes of the minutes. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Count, Gredler, Grollitsch; Haigermoser, Haller, Hofmann; Young; Koller, Krüger; Lauter; Madl, Meisinger, Mentil, Moser Hans Helmut; Nut trees; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Peter, Povysil, Preisinger, Pumberger; Rosenstingl; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schreiner, Schweitzer, Stadler; Trattner; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Barmüller, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Freser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haselsteiner, Heindl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kier, Kiermaier, Kiss, Konrad, Head, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, Langthaler, Leikam, Leiner, Löschnak, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Motter, Mühlbachler, Müller; Neisser, Niederwieser, Nowotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Ollinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Petrovic, Pittermann, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reitsmer, Riepl; Sauer, Schaffenrath, Schirder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemminger, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stoisits, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9431	Next, we shall vote on the advisory group II of the Federal Proposal for 1998. This includes Chapter 10, 13 and part of the Economic Balance Estimate and Chapter 71 of the Federal Proposal in 841 of the Supplements. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment and an additional request. In addition, the Members of Parliament have spoken in favour of this report. Meischberger and comrades submitted an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the financial approaches affected by the requests and finally on the remaining parts of the advisory group II of the Federal Proposal for 1998. Deputies Ing. As mentioned above, Meischberger and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the estimates I/10434, I/10456, I/10466 and the sum of the title and the resulting changes to the sum amounts. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request by Meischberger to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I am therefore immediately voting on these parts of the financial legislation of the Federal proposal for 1998, as amended by the Government's proposal, and I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of it for a sign on this point. – This is adopted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have also tabled an amendment concerning the estimate approach I/10506 and the resulting amount of change. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for a sign on this point to be given to Stoisits. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft Government document and seek out those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it for a sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. Mrs Stoisits has also tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new estimate I/10507 media supply in national languages. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of Chapter 10, 13, together with the corresponding parts of the economic compensatory proposal and Chapter 71 of the Federal Proposal as amended by the Government's proposal. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it give a positive sign. I adopt a decision by a majority. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Consultative Group II of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, are objections raised? This is not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Chamberlanders on the financing of women's advisory and service facilities. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign of this. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Advisory Group V Chapter 30: Justice (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9541	We come to the negotiation of the Advisory Group V: Justice. An oral report was rejected by Mrs Special Rapporteur. First of all, Mr Dr. Ofner has spoken. The speaking time is set to 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9569	Mr President. – I will welcome the Federal Minister immediately after his arrival. – Ladies and gentlemen! I put the question to you: How is the Austrian judicial system? Is she just working? Does it work as quickly as the citizen imagines how he is entitled to imagine it? The opinions on this matter differ naturally, depending on the position of those concerned. One thing is certain: Justice is losing ground in domestic policy vis-à-vis other departments. I don't think that's a coincidence. We are trying to move sensitive areas to other areas, and I believe that justice is not enough. We have already observed this in the rental law matter, in which recent comprehensive novels have to be observed. All of a sudden, the rental property no longer belonged to the judicial system, but to the building resort. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: The last one?]] I said last of weight. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Not at last!]] I say it again for the dear Willi Fuhrmann: at the last novel of weight. We first changed the name of the addictions. We have come from the appropriate term "such gift law" to the impoverishing title "Suchtswet". This law, which deals with culprit crime and provides for a maximum penalty of 20 years of imprisonment, has already landed at the health resort and is no longer treated by the judicial body. I believe that the signals are going in the wrong direction, and I am asking the Federal Minister for Justice to see already that not too much of what belongs to his possession goes to other areas; especially when it comes to such delicate matters, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, the civil sector, even more so than the out-of-controversy matters of the number of cases of criminal law in the judicial sector, is far greater. Nevertheless, the public always believes that judicial policy is equal to criminal law policy. I would therefore like to refer, in my statement, mainly to criminal law and also to start with them. We still have to note that in criminal justice care there is not enough differentiation between dangerous, professional perpetrators on the one hand and harmless random or first-time perpetrators on the other. Still, according to the same law in one and the same hall, serious criminals, professional criminals who are really dangerous, and arbitrarily convicted by one and the same judge. I should like to remind you once again that we are still doing so to condemn negligent property crimes under the title of the "loose Krida" before courts. I cannot be satisfied with the fact that, from the very highest point of view, the negligent Krida is a kind of network for all property crimes, which could not be captured otherwise, and by the way, those who stand in court are all criminals anyway. In fact, with the negligent Krida people who have suffered business shipwreck, who have usually lost everything that has been auctioned, they are still in court that very costly advice is being collected by the book expert who costs 100 000 S, 150 000 S, and more. These expenses are always inconceivable, and depending on the judge dealing with the case, a term of imprisonment will be imposed for the duration of three or four months. We should finally find this – I will mention it again and again until it will be done – that we did not treat negligent property crimes, at least in the main matter of the negligent Krida, before the courts, at least not before the courts, ladies and gentlemen. This removes work capacity from the courts and means that the child is poured out with the bath in criminal justice. A similar problem, which is apparently not to be passed on, is that of the rights for the victims of criminal acts. We hear again and again that the perpetrators have more rights than the victims. This is only conditional, but it is indeed true that in the criminal process itself – and on which it ultimately comes – the victim has virtually no rights at all in the form of the private party. The private party or his representative is sitting there, he is not entitled to make even one application, he is not entitled to bring an appeal. He has no rights in the procedure himself at all, and I therefore think it is a mirror fighting, if it is always explained that he does not need any rights in the process, he only needs information about the rights he has. This means that one has to say to him: You have no rights. You have become victims, but you have no rights. - That would be the reconnaissance. He needs the rights in criminal proceedings, in the main proceedings. We must give them to him, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, it is also not really meaningful to refer to the out-of-court settlement, which will also take place in adults over short or long periods of time. For there will always be only 15 or 20 percent of the criminal acts that end with extrajudicial compensation. Everything else, i.e. the lion's share of criminal acts, will be dealt with in court in the main proceedings, so that the rights of the victims cannot be improved in mass with the extrajudicial compensation, but only by a revision of the rights of the victims in the criminal proceedings themselves. We also experience, again and again, that it is true that things are being sued at the courts over a too slow course, but then we want to go to the point of pouring out the child with the bath. We already have a template in the direction of an extended value-limited novel in the house. It will be discussed and negotiated; I do not want to go too far. However, I would like to point out that I cannot resist the impression that this novel will once again be used to speed things up in court at the expense of individual case law. What the citizen can expect in a rule of law, in particular from the work of justice, is justice, as high as possible, in each individual case. To speed up at the expense of this justice by not considering a higher impact in the activities of the judicial officials, but by drawing up barriers that do not even allow the complainants to make claims in civil proceedings after certain periods of time, because they, even the defendants, are subject to delay and to delay things, cannot be really targeting. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But there are also social problems in justice. In the last few days, we have been considering the fact that those who are most likely to be involved in this field, namely those practitioners who still have to bring the passage of the Year of Judgment, have been reduced retroactively in their financial payments. And one hears over and over again that one wants to limit the number of legal practitioners at all, and also that one wants them to continue financially. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I call on those responsible to ensure that the legal practitioners are not worse, but better in their social positions, that in the future the students who need legal practice to be able to take legal action have a right to complete the judicial practice, and perhaps in return, as was the case earlier, to give them more tasks, so that they do not go without legal practitioners and eventually pay for them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One sentence: Where's the money coming from? It's said the law practitioners cost so much money. With a number I can wait in this context: The money flows into channels where we don't like to see it. We experience, for example, that there are four, five, six interpreters in criminal proceedings because of serial intrusions and similar events in a single main proceedings, which can be interpreted from Ukrainian to Turkish and Serbian. And the question is raised – I am already at the last sentence, Mr President: What do these interpreters cost in criminal proceedings in court? – I can tell you: They cost 46 million schillings in 1996, absolutely inconceivable, of course. That's not a cardboard handle, so you could do something else, for example, help the law practitioner accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] I know, however, that such a retranslation is of course not possible without further notice.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9658	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fuhrmann. 8 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit – please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9679	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the voluntary involuntary time limit of 8 minutes... [[Abg. Aumayr: Why?]] Involuntarily, therefore, Mrs Colleague, because, as we all know, a certain day-block time has been given. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have always fought them!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Okay, okay. But I do not want to waste the few minutes on such discussions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the free space next to himself significant) Mr. Fuhrmann! There's a little place with me!]] A number of comments on judicial policy were made shortly. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, considering it only from the figures, the absolute figures in the budget, the judicial unit is a small department, with about 10.5 billion shillings of expenditure and 7.2 billion shillings of revenue. Now you could say: Well, that's a rather insignificant little resort. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that this is not the case, but that the work of the judicial body and the judicial system is extremely important for the reputation of a rule of law. Of course, we also know that judicial policy also includes essential factors of social policy. We have seen this very clearly from a number of recent discussions between the President of the Committee on Justice and the Section, the Working Party on Sexual Criminal Law. Ladies and gentlemen! The functioning of justice as one of the three essential pillars of the democratic rule of law will indeed be essential to the sense of citizens, whether they live in a country in which they can come to their right in an acceptable time, whether they can come through plausible and as understandable laws according to fair and not too long procedures also to objective and fair judgments. For a parliamentarian who is responsible for the legal situation and for the state of the laws of that State, it will of course be justified to practice self-criticism. It must be admitted, of course, that there are enough laws that are soon only more understandable to specialists in an increasingly complex society in complicated materials. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are procedures whose preparation, implementation and duration sometimes cause legitimate headaches. And, of course, there will always be judgments to be regarded as quite contentious and challengeable. But in the context of today's debate, I do not think that it is fair to say, as a representative of the Austrian National Council, that justice in this country is basically in order – so it seems justified that all, both the Federal Minister and we, ladies and gentlemen, are still making possible improvements for many areas. I do not wish to contradict my previous speaker, Mr Ofner, in some of his points, and I would just like to point out that the reform of criminal proceedings, which I believe should now be undertaken with very great intensity and with great commitment, should also be considered in the light of the decision of this Criminal Procedure Act to deal with the issue of victims' rights in the form of private participation in criminal proceedings relatively soon. – What Ofner said about it has hands and feet. We must take this seriously, and I believe that we will certainly come to a solution on this issue, which can take account of all the basic principles we want to strengthen the rights of victims and, as I hope, will. Through the Ceterum Censeo des Harald Ofner regarding the negligent Krida, we are reminded of the fact that we must not tire out and never ignore the shifted relations in our criminal law, which are still present between property criminals on the one hand and crimes against body and life on the other. This is also required on the specific issue of negligent Krida, which is very often nothing but an aid instrument for later enforcement rights in order to make it easier to handle civil claims of creditors through criminal proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen! It already flashes the lamp here, so I must close soon. – On the point raised at the beginning of my remarks, that it is important for the citizen not only to have good laws, but also to have proper and decent judges and prosecutors, but also to allow the court constitution and the state of justice to come to his right in a reasonable time – the famous word "access to justice" – it is still to be said that, in my view, we still have some efforts to make in this respect, both in civil and criminal law. I am now addressing this again in the budget debate on the chapter on justice, because, as I am aware, it is a financial question whether, for example, many experts in procedural law, criminal and civil law, can finally be eliminated by establishing word-based logging in civil and criminal proceedings, for example with the support of sounders. This may perhaps be seen by some as marginalies, but it would be essential for the citizens to have confidence in the proceedings if anyone who says in court could assume that what they have said is actually recorded, that there is a sufficient dosage for writing staff and that the judicial staff is not hindered in their appointment, because protocols may not be transferred in good time. [[Discouragement of the liberties]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is still much to be said about it, but since I know a few colleagues from our judicial group as speakers behind me, I can now calmly end my remarks on this subject. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Go to sleep!]] – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9773	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9795	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to start by thanking the members of the judicial body who support those Members of the National Council who are members of the Justice Committee, not just the Greens, who have always been very supportive of their work, and will certainly continue to support them in the future. I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for continuing this cooperation between the Committee and the Justice Board; I think this is a very productive work. Since I am also trying to speak briefly today, I would like to combine this with the request made to the President of the Committee on Justice, who has not been so long – at least from my view horizon of the last seven years – to maintain this tradition. It has been shown in recent years that particularly in the area of justice – ideologically or worldlyly, but also in terms of values of different kinds – very difficult problems with very high consensus and constructive cooperation of all the groups of the House have been solved. This tradition needs to be strengthened and continued – and not to question for example. I would like to continue by asking Mrs Fekter, especially since I believe that the cooperation between the speakers of the political groups is now substantially determined by the fact that several ladies have the honour of working here. At this level it would be very easy to continue. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Premise is that they are ladies!]] As difficult as we sometimes had it with Dr. Graff, so easy – at least I hope so – it will be with you. I can only ask you, Mrs Fekter, not to be restricted by some of your group, including your Mr Klubobmann. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore very much in the second point and in the current discussion, in which I would like to support the Minister of State following the Question Time of the last week and the discussion that has already taken place here, with the continuation of what has begun in his department, not in terms of content but in terms of working, thinking and formulating, on behalf of the National Council. The "Sexual Criminal Law Working Group" mentioned today is not, for example, a sole concern of the Minister of Justice because he was the only one who recognized the need for action. Mr Khol, I would very much like to remind you that we here in the House had very strong discussions, because we also had very dedicated discussions on the subject of sex criminal law: we started with child pornography up to those extremely negative events in Belgium, which were also included in our discussion last year. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Also in Bad Goisern!]] As a result of these events, a working group was set up by the Federal Minister. This working group – you know that from the representative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – has worked very productively to date. However, one cannot actually talk about "results" because there experts discuss with each other under the exclusion of politics and try, because of their expertise – whether it be psychiatrists, psychologists, employees of child protection centres, judges or prosecutors, but also club workers; in the case of the Greens, it is a club worker who participates in these discussions to bring in various aspects. The results of this working group, which have been known to me so far, encourage me personally to maintain the demands of the Greens, such as the limitation period in criminal acts in which children have been victims of moral offences. I have already tabled an application in the context of the Criminal Change Act, but for various reasons I have not found a majority. Now, in the Ministry of Justice, where one was skeptical at the time, one has come to realize that this is wise and reasonable. In the discussion, people come together in conversation. This is why I find it more than strange in the light of the procedure just described in the past in the case of judicial projects that the ÖVP now wants to shut down. Ladies and gentlemen! I have no problem with a discussion of different ideas on different values or attitudes of the political groups. This is precisely the difference between the individual political groups. . But if one cannot even discuss in sections again, then any form of parliamentarism ceases in which one tries to find consensus on difficult issues as well. I would like to have said this here without breaking a discussion about it. This debate will not take place until Mr. Federal Minister Michalek finally sends proposals to the House on this matter. Federal Minister! I ask you to do this very soon, because – and I am already on the last points – all the things that I am still dealing with as a temporary project have already been announced in the last legislative period and have either been in the sand, like my first example, the environmental liability, which has been included as a priority project at least since 1990, that is, since I am a member of the National Council, in every declaration of government of a Federal Chancellor, exclusive of the present, always since I was a member of the National Council. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Yes! Always uncompleted!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have to assume today that this has been completely shubbled, since no one speaks of it anymore, although you, Federal Minister Michalek, in particular, have always referred to environmental liability - I just call the short title - as a very essential concern to you. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Exactly!]] I would, of course, be interested in today's discussion of what's going on. What about it now? How does that look? What about the productive work of the working group in the department, which has not only developed print-ready, but also final or decisive templates? What about this extensive work? So many male and female years are supposed to be wasted at random? Federal Minister! I know that the way you whisper to me is not in your area. That is why I am pleased that Mrs Fekter is speaking after me once, because she may be able to give us some information on what has become of these points, all of which have always been included in the Coalition Agreements. But let me add three more points. I express my displeasure and disappointment at the fact that, after your announcements last week in this House, the introduction of the extrajudicial compensation for adults will now be delayed again in time. We have here in the National Council a unanimous resolution that you should send us a proposal. The deadline for this has long expired. I know, of course, the difficulties that arise, but it is not least budgetary issues that have a major impact on the introduction of a government proposal to the House. Somehow the cat bites in the tail: There's no money, so you can't bring the template, you don't bring the template, so there's no money. I hope that in the context of the next budget, which will be decided in the first half of 1998, we will have a similar answer. That is why I believe that you should act quickly on this issue, in our every interest, and that is not a question that is too controversial. The third point, the criminal procedure, is almost a never-ending story. Since I am a Green Judge, a major reform has been announced in this regard. – To this day they don’t exist! The U-Haft reform at that time has been back years. It was clearly preferred at the time, because there was a need for action in this matter. However, this has been a few years ago. The experience gained with it is consistently positive. In my view, Mr Federal Minister, this should stimulate you to deal with the remaining issues as a priority. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The last point: the right of divorce. There is a working group on this - I am now coming back to the working groups - so that the ladies and gentlemen can also see how well-worked it is – which has been working since July 1995, with agreement or with the cooperation of all the political groups. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Subgroup!]] There are numerous protocols and results which, although not entirely in line with my ideas, would be an incredibly large step towards compensation and a reduction in the debt principle in divorce. Federal Minister! I would ask you to become active here so that the Parliamentary Justice Committee will continue to receive, as it were, under feed for its work and not be pushed solely by constraints, for example because of the adoption of EU directives and the like. These brief statements do not claim completeness of the demands and areas of work to be included in today's budget debate. I hope that in a few months – the next budget debate is scheduled for April 1998 – there will be no repetition of these demands but quite concrete progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9904	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9926	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Stoisits, I would like to thank you very much for saying that the climate in the Committee on Justice is so positive because of the work of women. I believe, however, that we women also benefit from this - and you can see it at the official level - yet man-dominated justice is all half good. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: But the men in the judicial committee are okay!]] Of course, they also contribute to the fact that, even if Mr Ofner occasionally thinks otherwise, a consensus will be reached in the Committee on Justice even after long, heated debates. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Because we are loud softties!]] No, you are thank God, I must say, not in the Committee on Justice. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's not a softie either!]] Today we decide on the budget, so let me say a few words about the budget. I have taken the budget figures from the fact that in 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1997 the rate of increase in the judicial sector has steadily decreased, and only now has an increase of 8 per cent in 1998. I would like to point out that this is not a linear continuation of the budget figures, but a positive structural change in the field of justice. This is clear from the relationship between staff expenditure and material expenditure. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: 54 to 46 percent!]] Mr Barmüller! Five years ago, i.e. in the 1992 budget, the ratio of personnel to labour expenditure was 64 percent at 36 percent. In the budget we now decide, it is 54 percent to 46 percent. It is clear from this that very different adjustments have been made, and I should like to mention this in praise. Because only a continuation of budget numbers or saving by scratching everything over a comb is actually not justified. In particular, the figures have been shifted towards material expenditure due to outsourcings and privatisations. I believe that with the budget that we will decide today, we can implement the projects of the judicial policy which are in place for 1998. In this context, Mr Minister, I am particularly concerned that the protection of victims should be extended. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Ofner was particularly concerned about the need to increase the protection of victims in the criminal process. I also see serious difficulties, but I think that we have already normized a wealth of rights for the victims in the matter laws – only the victim does not come to his right! The victim is not informed, it is too late to be informed of the rights it could claim, there is no adequate treatment for victims, and no one cares about long-term damage to victims at all. There is an urgent need to take a set of measures, starting with the obligation to provide information, to treat the victims completely differently, to improve therapy and also to support long-term damage. Minister! It is not enough if you mention the protection of victims exclusively in connection with the new activities relating to the out-of-court settlement. That'll be too little. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We say a fundamental yes to the extrajudicial balance of action for adults, but: The position of the victim must be clearly improved in advance, so that it does not come as a matter of overreacting on the issue of a perpetrator-sacrifice. The victim must also know exactly what it is all about. Above all, if one goes away from the state monopoly towards the perpetrator-offering, located in the hand of the victim, to say: Okay, I accept the compensation, and the culprit is not punished for that. – This responsibility, Minister-in-Office of the Council, cannot be clarified in a one-off discussion. There must be a more professional and, above all, more institutional information for the victims. Nor can we imagine that the extrajudicial compensation, as provided for in the draft assessment, will be applied up to a criminal framework of five years. That seems far too high for us. And the rule of law also has to be clarified how the demarcation between execution, parole and culprit care and, on the other hand, as we are in the pre-punity field, the settlement of the perpetrator-offering is to be carried out in order to achieve a truly fair procedure. Because the parole aid is always classically located on the side of the perpetrators. Organizational separation must be guaranteed: from training to premises. We will need a clearly defined infrastructure, otherwise we will not be able to introduce this instrument. With the budget we decide today, we will also finance the preparations for the introduction of the euro in the judicial area. I am very confident that the place will take all necessary precautions in time. The value-limits novelle to be dealt with at the next meeting of the Committee on Justice has already taken steps in this direction. Minister! I believe that even more intensive discussions need to be carried out on the ambitious construction projects of your department and that policy decisions must be made. Before planning or building billions of funds on the grounds of slaughter, the policy is to decide clearly what it is needed for, planted and then installed. To my previous speaker: I share Mr Ofner's view on the issue of negligent Krida. It is incomprehensible that almost 60 percent of bankruptcy proceedings are rejected due to lack of mass – and this without critical proceedings. That is, these so-called perpetrators are all unscathed, while those who have not managed everything and failed to do anything are accused of negligent Krida. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: That's not true!]] There is a need for action, and there must be a change. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Stoisits! Because the light is already shining, I can't go into your arguments now. Environmental liability: in principle yes. But a purely perilous liability with a reversing of evidence: clearly no. With regard to the "group of divorces", I object to a complete abandonment of the principle of indebtedness, but I declare myself to be a compensation for care. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Finally, Work with you and your place of business has been largely satisfactory for us by the ÖVP. However, if the joint work causes us to be displeased, we do so. That is what we have done quite clearly at the last Question Time. That is why we have been displeased by the work because we simply do not want to carry or develop certain things along. Mr. Minister! Please bear in mind that for novels from your house you need a majority in this house.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10044	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10066	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Fekter spoke about the protection of victims. I can assure you from practice: An improvement in the protection of victims, Mrs Fekter, is not only possible by placing an information brochure, an information leaflet on the courts. This will not be enough to help victims get better breakthroughs and better law enforcement. When considering the role of the perpetrator, the work with the perpetrator on the one hand, and the work with the victim on the other, I think a lot has gone wrong in the past. Thus, the discussion and also the reforms have often focused on the perpetrator and far too little on the victim. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Especially in recent years, and especially in recent months, this victim protection deficit has become quite clear. I address the affairs of child injury, especially in the same gender field. In the early summer and in the summer we were confronted with a wave of such crimes, and in this context a very gross injustice has occurred. This injustice is that the accused of child injury, if he cannot afford a lawyer, is very likely to receive "regime expenses", at the expense of the taxpayer, a defender, but the abused child, who is likely to work for a lifetime on physical injuries, but above all on mental pain and whose sexual feeling is often disturbed by such infractions for a lifetime, has no right to procedural assistance when it comes to asserting these rights as private participants. Mrs Fekter, as far as the information sheet is concerned, you are quite right, of course. I don't want to abdicate that at all. But this is a minor issue, although it is a very important one, but it is not the one that should be at the heart of our interests, at the heart of our debate. The debate is really about how the victim can be helped. You can't always be oriented to the culprit. I would like to take a stand against a tendency in the whole of justice policy, namely, against the tendency – as strange as it may seem – to decriminalise criminal law. This is a contradiction in itself. I personally – and I assume, also by my group – will not agree to an out-of-court settlement if this out-of-court settlement is also provided for in very serious offences. It's said it's a victim protection, but it's really a culprit's protection. And it cannot be assumed that the crimes committed today – robberous theft or robbery – can be dealt with by the judge with an out-of-court settlement. You talk about it under victims and perpetrators, you pay compensation, you don't have a pre-punishment – that's not how it can be done! This project, ladies and gentlemen, is a contradiction in itself. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There can be no decriminalisation of criminal law, because then criminal law as a whole ceases! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Then everything stops!]] I say the following, even if it is adjourned and may not conform to the spirit of time: An essential purpose of a punishment is still the deterrence of possible imitation or other perpetrator. This purpose must be fully maintained! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another chapter concerns the speed of procedures. Trust in justice is the foundation of our legal system. Now, trust in justice depends, in particular, on how quickly the citizen comes to his right, how quickly justice is spoken in court. Fast completion, a quick judgment is required for the citizen. That seems to me to be a major deficit. Mr. Justice Minister, I miss your understanding. They quote statistics that many newly attacked cases are dealt with within a given period of time – 80, 90 percent within the annual period. This may be the case, but one cannot be guided by the proceedings in which there is a complainant and the defendant makes a failure judgment. As we know, this is the fastest and most frequent completion of each procedure. We know from practice that 90 percent of cases end with a failure judgment or with a payment order because there is no objection. It is not possible to include these cases in the statistics and say: See 90, 95 percent of the cases under appeal are executed within the annual period. – That’s not how it can be done! I really miss your insight, Minister. If you say that there are lawyers to put the deeds, I'll confirm that to you. Of course, there are black sheep in every professional group. But from practice I say to you that the vast majority of those disputes that are not settled for years to the detriment of the complainants are also due to the judiciary and to the work of the judges. For we have enough mechanisms in the Civil Procedure Code, Mr Justice Ministers, to ensure that processes can be handled properly and in a short time. You know, every civil process is under the ceiling of concentration. There are the possibilities of preclusion, cost separation. I do not want to burden the House with specific technical terms. At any rate – and I think that is, in general, understandable – there is the possibility for the judge to make quick appointments. And we miss that in practice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are not individual cases, Minister. I give you a concrete example: a complaint over 2.5 million schillings, brought in 1986. The judgment was delivered in 1993. In the meantime, Minister, the applicant's house has been auctioned. There has been negotiations at this time, which were not marked by any requests for removal. They were envisioned to allow the judge to realign himself over the case at all, and after an hour one went apart. The assets of the applicant's family have gone on. After legal proceedings, he finally got right. There is a danger in such a case, Mr Minister, that the judge says, well, the Republic could actually be held liable, because I would rather let the complainant lose. – It was not so in this case, I just say that there is the possibility. – In this particular case, it was the case that after 1993 the defendant had dropped to a million-height debt, and the applicant’s house finally went on to it. If you say, Mr. Minister, these are the famous individual cases, and every lawyer has such individual cases, then I am going to deny you: In Austria there are 2 500 lawyers, and if each lawyer has only such a case, where assets go by the inaction of the courts, then this is an abuse which is of general interest and which belongs to the dismissed. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Time has already advanced. I would like to focus very briefly on the issue of imbalance in the protection of property on the one hand and the protection of physical integrity on the other. I believe that the protection of physical integrity is far from being observed. From practice: The famous bicycle thief, who is a repeater, receives 15 months, 18 months of imprisonment, because there is the unwritten principle, it cannot be less. On the other hand, violent perpetrators, raw, brutal perpetrators who today beat up defenseless victims on the streets, trample them with feet, torment them and paint them, often go home with relatively bright punishments. There seems to be something wrong with me. One must also apply here: There can be no mercy for such perpetrators even in court. For gross right to gross acts must still apply!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10132	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. You still have a speaking time of 19 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10154	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With reference to Mrs Fekter's comments in particular, I would like to point out that the judicial budget is certainly not particularly spectacular as far as the figures are concerned. But what deserves attention and what needs to be discussed is, in what social context, in which atmospheric background this judicial budget is now taking place. In this context, the current debate is also very interesting. Mr Krüger complained about the increasing loss of criminal law in deterrence. – Ladies and gentlemen, I can really tell you: Both your speeches and Mrs Fekter's speeches are greatly reduced to deterrence potential: From Budget debate to Budget debate is increasing the potential for deterrence of the speeches held here by both of you! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You judge that!]] Yeah, I'll judge that, and I'll tell you why. Just take the provisions on extrajudicial compensation. There is talk of the fact that the debt must be small, that it must really be only crimes settled in the lower area. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Up to five years, stand in there!]] There's no one talking about your predatory theft, or anything else, because you finally have to judge what the matter looks like in a specific case. Mrs Fekter has also refused to discuss matters in another area, namely in the Working Party on Sexual Criminal Law, but I am still talking about that. They say to the extrajudicial case-law: I am, of course, for the ATA, because it is incredibly important, I am in principle for that, but before that, there must be a protection of the victims. And if there is no victim protection, there is no ATA either. Now, although you admit that the extrajudicial case-law is improving, you say that we do not make this improvement if the other side of the victim protection is not strengthened, which you think is already done with the fact that you are publishing a leaflet that you will probably insert in the sect brochure in the back. But of course, ladies and gentlemen, this is not enough at all. If the ATA brings an improvement, then you have to make this improvement. One will also have to talk about the protection of victims. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: When?]] But I always have a concern, ladies and gentlemen, if you are building a junkim in this context. I want to give you two things right here. You said there was no real treatment for victims. That's what we Liberals see. This is an area that needs to be tackled. That's not a question at all. The second point: Long-term damage has not been taken into account. I also know people who have become victims of a crime and then needed care, but have not received it. In this area too, something has to be improved, which is not at all a question. But when it comes to victim protection in the process, a fundamental confusion arises, and it happens to you constantly: It is a question of the fact that the perpetrators or the perpetrators are not yet established in the current proceedings. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: In my speech I mentioned this problem!]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have a damaged person in a trial, you may have a victim, but you cannot even say that the person has become a victim of that person who is being negotiated in the specific procedure, because that will not be established until the judgment has become effective. That's exactly the atmospheric background you're doing this against, because in reality, you're going to have to hibernate. With your argument regarding the protection of victims, which you always only bring as a keyword – and you have not mentioned today any concrete action you want to put in place – the presumption of innocence in the proceedings. And I am afraid that this is also the great discrepancy that will exist between the Liberals and the EIA not only today but also in the future, because we think it is essential that it be taken more precisely in future with the presumption of innocence in this country than is the case at present. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens]] And I'll tell you something: The extrajudicial compensation is not a task of the state monopoly, not at all, because it takes place under state supervision, and there is a penalty if it does not work. This is not a task of the state criminal monopoly! And this is what you have to say here at the speaker's desk. It is precisely the chairman of the Committee on Justice who must be able to demand that this be stressed here, too, if it is to be taken seriously in this context. But if you talk about this and then get out of this working group dealing with the reform of sexual criminal law, I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, you will not have the impression that your professional competence is going there. Federal Minister! Mrs Fekter has told you that you should bear in mind that you need a majority in Parliament for all your proposals that you are preparing in your House. That's right. But please also bear in mind, Mr Federal Minister – and this is important to me in this context – that there are still a large number of Members in this House who judge the submissions with reason and not exclusively ideological. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In this context, I shall come to the statements made by Mrs Stoisits. Mrs Stoisits said that she asked Mrs Fekter to take part in this working group, to maintain an objective discussion and to maintain an objective cooperation. I believe, Mrs Stoisits, that as far as I am now familiar with Mrs Fekter, these requests are in vain labor of love. And I can prove it to you, too: It was Mrs Fekter, who was the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights. August 1997 in an APA issue said: "External action only by means of victim protection law!" was the passive title –: In order to prevent damage to victims of sexual offences from being increased by the court proceedings, a special competence of the Jugendgerichtshof Vienna should be created for this purpose. That's interesting, because it's already been on the 20th. In September 1996, well a year earlier, a Liberal Forum request was made, which was exactly what it was about, but Mrs Fekter has not yet found it worth putting it on the agenda of the Committee on Justice. And a year later she makes a press release and gives herself especially constructive and says: We need to talk about this. But what other parties have already proposed is not even worthy of attention. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That's why, my. Ladies and gentlemen, the Liberals also judge a judicial budget primarily against the background before which this discussion takes place. And here, Mr Federal Minister, I also have to say that it has been missed by the Liberals that there has no longer been resistance in the area of justice in the area of grid arrest and noise attack. We believe that the proposal has shot far beyond the objective. Here you have intervened in fundamental rights positions. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I said not enough. I know there was resistance at the beginning. I know that the Federal Ministry of the Interior... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (in the direction of the Federal Minister of Government, Dr. Michalek, sitting on the government bank) They wanted this!]] See, Mr. Federal Minister, as soon as you get into the wrong society. Now you wanted it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: If so, then so!]] It is true that, at the beginning, the Federal Minister has very vehemently resisted the proposal made by the Federal Ministry of the Interior. And this was really – and you will admit this to me, Madam Members – very deep, what fundamental rights are about. There's a lot of things going on. Meanwhile, in Leoben, interestingly by an AUF official, an illegal noise attack has been made. Although this has not succeeded, it has been made anyway. In the "Gray House" talks have been heard by defenders with their clients – and that was already in July, where there was no legal basis for this. It was then said that it was on judicial order. We have missed from the Liberals that the Minister of Justice has made a vehement appeal and has gone through more consistently. We have the impression that this matter is not really being pursued. This is something, Minister of State, that we miss from your side. We believe that a party-independent Minister of Justice, who you are undisputed, must also take advantage of this scope, because you have the opportunity, because you do not belong directly to any of the two government parties, to take a special position here and really to push forward what is becoming more and more necessary in the area of justice. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] What is more necessary, ladies and gentlemen, for example, is to ensure that people who are acquitted in proceedings are not regarded as those who have not just been caught and have had to acquit. For example, after Mr Lingen's acknowledgment, it is often said: Don't do anything, let's make a nullity complaint to keep the law, and let's try it again! Then there is a second procedure, and then there is another admissibility. Then they say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, We've made a mistake again, but don't do anything, we'll try it again! One gets the impression that people are financially hounded with procedures, interestingly with legal procedures, despite advocacy, because the costs they have to spend on their defence are not replaced by anyone. One has the impression that it is the thought behind it: If we can't lock her up, we'll at least ruin her financially. – Here too, Minister of State, it would be appropriate to make use of your right of guidance and to say: Wait, who has been acquitted, is not a Gauner that you have not caught, but he could also be innocent! This should also be borne in mind in this State. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, we were very pleased that, during the last Question Time, there was a very clear statement from you regarding the Working Party on Sexual Criminal Law. In this regard, we believe that it is useful to put people's self-determination at the centre. We are convinced that this is the essential point. Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that if, in this country, Mr Posch, I believe that the Carinthian Members also have an interest in having an open society in Carinthia, too, an open society should be realized, then it must also be taken into account that the self-determination of people is something that is indispensable in an open society. It is worth considering the basic approach of our entire sexual criminal right. It is worth noting that the European Commission on Human Rights is taking a decision which is expected to abolish the profoundly unfair boundaries in the area of sexual self-determination, for example, when it comes to equal sexes and connections, and it is right that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs should be given an advantage and that the solutions offered by this House can then be discussed because they are technically well prepared. All this, ladies and gentlemen, must be possible, is a prerequisite for an open society, and that is what we want from the Liberal Forum. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We are opposed to the fact that there is a lack of work from one government party, that there are verbal rounds, that on the one hand, one simply withdraws from work, on the other hand, builds up junkims and, in fact, plays a very, very destructive role. Ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore continue to ensure, from the Liberal Forum in the coming year, that what is available in the judicial area on funds is, according to our view, used for an open society, and also that it is cleaned up, for example, with traditional role models. And when it comes to cleaning up with traditional role models, that means, for example, in the area of divorce right, that we finally link the question of maintenance to need and not to a debt that no one can really determine. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We believe that it is necessary not only to strengthen the psychological care of victims, Mrs Fekter, but also the psychological care of prisoners. For the purpose of the punishment is no longer, Mrs Fekter, the deterrence – otherwise one should actually talk about whether one does not reintroduce the torture again, because I guarantee you that it would be very special - but rather the goal must be that people should be brought back to life, that they can be integrated into society again and that they will not fall back again, because this is what honourable Member Ofner has repeatedly stressed; however, I have not heard of it any longer – what this society is most expensive to do. The decline is not only from the cost to society, but also from the impact on the individual what must definitely be avoided. We therefore also want, ladies and gentlemen, to reduce the argument of the General Prevention when it comes to the increasing rejection of prison sentences, and, Mr Federal Minister, we are convinced that the autonomy of the penitentiaries must come. Throughout the state, we are talking about greater budgetary sovereignty for individual institutions; in this area too, you should try to give the immediate institutions the power of decision, including the budget, but not only in terms of actual expenditure, but also in terms of staff expenditure. In total, ladies and gentlemen, we will give liberals their consent to the judicial budget, which is because we are not acting according to ideology, but according to reason. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10322	Mr Lammer has spoken about an actual correction. Please, honourable Member, start with the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10346	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Barmüller claimed that a member of the AUF had carried out an illegal noise attack in Leoben. - That's wrong. I am therefore correcting as follows: First: The order of this surveillance was made by the Procuratorate Leoben. Secondly, The monitoring was under the supervision of a superior, an officer. Thirdly, The AUF member is a member of this group and has to comply with the rules of service.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10381	Mr Magistrate has spoken on a personal reply. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10420	Mr President. Federal Minister! My personal concern stems from the fact that you are here imagining me to quote truthfully something that you can read in the Minutes and what I would like to send you so that you can get information properly. [[towards the liberals]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10450	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Michalek, has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10472	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget debate will also give me the opportunity to inform the House shortly about the most important legislative projects of the judicial unit, including some words. In general, we are dealing with legislative work to find appropriate, well thought-out answers to those legal issues that arise from social and economic development and which are as far-reaching as possible social consensus. In the field of civil law, three material complexes will be in the foreground in the near future. In the context of reforms in the field of rights of damages, we will propose solutions to those problems that result from the use of modern risk technologies in Germany and abroad. We will be presenting proposals for legislation in the fields of nuclear liability and genetic engineering liability over the next few weeks. The aim of our reforms in these difficult and legally sensitive areas is to find, with an eye to, rules in the interests of the injured, thereby contributing to greater justice, but also not neglecting the economic needs and the common good behind them. Another important task is that of those materials which are linked to the economic integration of Europe and are also very important for Austria's economic location. In doing so, our intensive participation in the legislative process within the European Union is increasingly in the foreground, in which it is necessary to make the Austrian position effective at the earliest possible stage and then to implement the results as quickly as possible in the Austrian legal system after the decision has been taken. I mention in particular the work on directives in the fields of warranty, late payment, copyright, company law, but also environmental liability. Just from the White Paper, which the Commission is looking forward to next year, I also expect to make a fleat of our Austrian efforts. The distance selling directive is already decided and implemented by us. At the end of this month, we will send the draft for a first Eurojustice Accompaniment Act to review, in which we will send it already in the three-year transitional period, starting from 1. In January 1999, effective legislative measures will be proposed in the important areas of general civil law, commercial law and, above all, company law. A further focus of civil law is on the reform of family law. On the basis of the results of the deliberations of an interdisciplinary working group set up by me, a legislative proposal for amendments to the law on marriage and divorce is currently being drawn up, which will be sent for consideration after consultation with the relevant departments next year. The general objective of our proposals in this regard is to strengthen the economically weaker partner in marriage and in the case of divorce, in particular in the sharing of tasks during marriage, in protecting against loss of home and maintenance rights. Drafts are also being prepared for changes in the fields of child affairs and property rights. Finally, we continue to work intensively on the major projects of a comprehensive reform of the right of dispute. Following the preparation of the general part, drafts are now being prepared for a new plumbing procedure and a new procedure. In the areas of criminal law, too, we will continue our open efforts to further reforms, following recent law enforcement of the Criminal Law 1996, the Drugs Act and the Federal Law on Special Investigation Measures against Organized Crime. In the future, we will continue to pursue a policy of justice, which is committed to the pursuit of professional effectiveness, which I believe is not found in one-sided "härte" or "Mild", but in the effort to differentiate, to balance interests and to a holistic problem vision – both involving prevention and repression. At present, we are already working very concretely on three projects: Material criminal law requires reform in the fields of economic criminal law, in particular in the light of developments in European law. The draft criminal law amending the law in 1998 is to include changes in the areas of subsidy fraud, money laundering, corruption offences, financial criminal law and criminal offences, and to the international rules of the last few years, and to show a sharper trend in the ground. In part, I was able to comment in detail on these issues, particularly the re-regulation of Krida resources. In the area of smaller everyday crime, a comprehensive disversion approach is to be implemented with the criminal process already under review in 1998. This means that, in particular, the out-of-court settlement which has already been proven in adult criminal law, which is by no means a decriminalisation, but an alternative response by the judicial system to a continuing criminal conduct, a permanent legal basis and an improvement in the position of the injured person or victim in criminal proceedings, is to be put on a permanent footing. It goes without saying that measures of the division are only considered in those cases where, after assessing the competent judge or prosecutor, there is no serious debt in individual cases and where special and general prevention purposes can be achieved by such an alternative measure as well as by a formal, in particular, conditional punishment, if not even better than by such punishment. The present budget, whose chapter you will decide today, and the 1999 budget already adopted by the Government will ensure that the human and financial conditions for the implementation of the division, which is now about 50 percent of the Austrian federal territory, will be granted in Austria, about autumn 1999. In the near future, the project for a comprehensive redesign of the criminal procedure will also enter a concrete stage. The tasks and powers of the public prosecutors and the security authorities as well as judicial protection and, last but not least, the status of the victim of a crime are to be found in a timely form, in which both investigational efficiency and the rule of law will be sought, as well as compensation for the consequences. This is intended to address the discomfort of non-lawful areas in the criminal police sector and an obsolete procedural structure in the so important area of criminal investigations. The draft will be completed at the beginning of next year, but I am not going to hide that we are still having intense discussions until the final success of this great project, especially with the interior, but also with the other parties involved in the criminal proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen! One more word on the procedure: You know that from the very beginning I have given particular attention to this issue and that we have not put a large number of measures to shorten the procedures without success. The extended value-limits novelle, which is under parliamentary discussion, are also intended to be remedied in a number of points, but precisely these are criticised by the speakers who are appealing to the procedure today, or at least in the Committee. Mr. Dr. Krüger! If there are cases like the ones you have referred to, then do not hesitate to confront us in a specific case so that we can proceed with the matter, or at least make it known to your board so that it can include these cases in the annual perceptive report, so that we can follow this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to make a few general comments on the preparation of legislative projects and on cooperation between the board and Parliament, not least with regard to the comments made by Mrs Stoisits. The good climate of discussion in the Committee on Justice and the pursuit of open cooperation between the political groups undoubtedly led to great success in the field of justice policy. This effort, often referred to as a consensus climate, requires a qualified preparation of decision-making bases on the broadest possible basis, with increasing involvement of legal comparison and interdisciplinary views and considerations. Indeed, legal decisions fall within the parliamentary will-building process, but it is our experience that, in the course of such a prudent preparation process, so many ideological peaks of disputes have already been mitigated or balanced, or have been seen more differentiated and pragmatic by all parties, not to mention the most high general acceptance of the decision taken at last. High house! The Minister of Justice and his officials are more willing and committed to bringing them into our joint work with you to pursue this style of substance in legal policy. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10566	Mrs Dr. Mertel has now been reported to the House. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10587	Mr President. Minister! Despite Mr Barmüller's offer to discuss the Kärnten pilot project, I would like to comment on three other points. First of all, I would like to make a few remarks about the federal law against violence in the family, after all, only with 1. ==References====External links== This law should limit the activity of violence in the family. And the balance of this law is positive, because this law has actually proved itself in practice. I would also like to say that this law, which seems to me to be particularly important, has been welcomed positively by the public security institutions and that the institutions actually understand how to apply it effectively. I therefore believe that we should also say thank you from this point of view, and thank you for the cooperative and serious application of this law in the interests of women and children. A further step in the right direction is also the establishment of the five intervention agencies already mentioned several times. A full-scale operation is guaranteed, which is also financed. I believe that this is a positive thing for the Ministry of Family Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. Minister! A note on your statements on developments in family law. For women in particular, divorce is a particularly important issue. Minister! I know that, for this matter, a working group and various sub-groups are set up in the Ministry of Justice, which carry out expert work there. I also know, however, that there is a public impression that negotiations have actually taken quite a long time and that results are being requested. I am therefore particularly pleased that you are looking forward to the review process next year. However, I believe that major reforms require a certain period of time, but they can also be found for concrete maladministrations in the short term. For example, a problem that I am often faced with is the fact that women, in divorce procedures of the more frequent – and they are often under enormous pressure – give up maintenance payments and take comparatively low discount payments. These women suffer years, even decades from their own decision. I believe that this is the case in time for intensive consultation: whether it be in an improved mediation procedure, or through an improved manu­duction obligation of the judges. Family counsellors also play a role in this context, but the first responsibility lies with the court. I believe that it should be prevented from creating unfair declarations of censure under pressure. Minister! Finally, a third point which has been discussed for a long time, namely the common concern for the child or the children after the divorce: I believe that women and mothers in particular face up to the so-called illustrious proposals with a lot of scepticism. Of course, it is desirable that both parents have an intense relationship with the children even after divorce. There is no objection to this basic idea. But this only works well for as long as the former spouses also put up with it. However, this is also possible in the case of a given legal situation, and the part that does not have the care is included. However, it becomes a problem when there is a very disturbed relationship between the former spouses. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in such cases, there may be difficult legal problems in the event of joint care, especially with regard to children. I cannot therefore imagine that it is according to the will of some associations that generally demand common care. On the other hand, we would speak out. For the child's well-being must be clearly a priority in the divorce process, but also in the debate on care.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10642	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10663	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The accession of Austria to the European Community necessarily brought many changes to the society as a whole, including changes that have had an impact on the Austrian judicial system and on the Austrian judicial administration. It is always about implementing EU directives into Austrian law, and there is always a danger that our Austrian regulations will go beyond EU law. We must be careful to become the implementation winner, because excessive regulations also harm Austria's economic location, and they are worsening our competitiveness. We ask the judicial administration, as well as other materials, not to make Austrian legal users worse than legal participants in other areas. It also increases the cases in which foreign law and intergovernmental law are applied, and this fact poses great challenges for Austrian judges and prosecutors, which undoubtedly must also be reflected in judicial training and training. A third major and important problem is organised crime, which is increasingly becoming a threat to our society. It acts cross-border and benefits from the Community's freedom to trade in goods, persons, capital and services. Technical innovations such as the Internet and Telebanking prove to be an unwanted tool. In spite of the raised finger of the rule of law student, Mr Barmüller, I would like to stress, in this context, the correctness of the way in which we have taken the introduction of the new methods of investigation. We must withdraw such organizations from the feeding ground in Austria by all means! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the Austrian People's Party, it was always clear which side we were on and that the protection of victims must always come before the perpetrator's protection. Especially in connection with organised crime, when women and children are affected, when it comes to the uplifting of addictions and large-scale arms trafficking, whenever life contents are destroyed, there must be no doubt as to which side we are actually on: There we have no understanding at all of falsely understood culprit protection! In this context, I also expressly welcome the participation of our authorities in the further expansion of the third pillar within the framework of the European Union: In concrete terms, it is about cooperation in the preparation of the Conventions on Legal Assistance and Extradition, the Convention on Purchasing, the Coordination of EU Drug Activities and many other activities. Against this background, the statement of the Minister of Justice at the Court of Justice in Graz is gaining special importance, according to which the trust of the people in justice is indispensable for their activities and acceptance. I underline this statement: In fact, we must do everything we can to secure and promote the confidence of the people in justice. But we should not overlook that many people today often stand outside the door and can no longer understand much of what laws or regulations regulate. In this connection, allow me to speak to Franz Kafka: These people desire admission. They wait for their right, and many today are shy about seeking their right, even if they are right. That is why, I believe, the task of the judicial system and the judicial administration is to establish a civil justice system. We ask the judges not to save with their teaching possibilities where it is actually in the interests of the parties, and we ask that the service to the citizen be brought back closer to the citizen. In view of this and taking into account the advanced time, allow me a few brief comments on the District Court Organisation in Styria, Upper Austria and Salzburg. . I have great understanding of the argument that is constantly being put forward from an economic point of view for the merger of district courts. These are questions which are at the heart of access to justice. However, it is also a question of identifying a region with public institutions. Regions with economic disadvantages are often affected. How am I supposed to convey hope to people in the upper Feistritz valley for a good future when the state itself sends opposite signals? – I think you should not approach this thing as a cool computer, but with a lot of feeling. Federal Minister! I ask you to go to work here with a lot of creativity! Each site is to be considered in a comprehensive manner, and benefits and disadvantages are to be carefully balanced. In particular, decisions should only be taken in agreement with the federal states and regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the complex provisions and the respect for EU law, the right seems to be getting away from the citizen. Where we are responsible, we must counter this trend. We must put all organizational measures in such a way that customer orientation is also the focus in the area of judicial administration. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10734	Mr. Dr. Jarolim is the next speaker. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10756	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Drinkl! I would like to make a very brief comment on your contribution: You have declared that in criminal law, victim protection for you goes against perpetrator protection. – I believe that this statement – which also applies to some previous speakers – is moving at the border of the principles of criminal law. They obviously speak of criminals in connection with "deads". In criminal proceedings, however, we speak of "possibility of perpetrators", and for these possible perpetrators, the presumption of innocence is one of the carrying pillars of criminal law. So, as I mean, you can't say: For us, victim protection goes against crime protection. Because by doing so, you are removing yourself from this bearing pillar of the presumption of innocence in the judicial system of criminal law. I think that this argument should simply not be possible! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] We have, of course, to appreciate the role of the victim accordingly. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Can we agree that the victim is known in criminal proceedings?]] Mr President, I should like to thank We logically have to ensure that all those affected as victims are informed of their rights. [[Further call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler! I don't know if you followed the debate. The victim is very well known in criminal proceedings, but it is not known whether the person sitting on the dock was actually the perpetrator, Mr. Cot! Therefore, you cannot say: Regardless of what has actually happened, the fact that the victim is affected should cause the defendant to be convicted, regardless of the actual facts. Say: You bring in an emotional element here! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You’re talking an eerie schmarr’n!]] Mr President, I should like to thank This is absolutely unbearable with our criminal law system, which unfortunately must be kept before you by God! If we are to hold this debate now and if At the same time, you say that you do not agree to the extrajudicial settlement, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, because you think that victim protection is against crime and because you believe that the draft extrajudicial compensation provides for criminal offences to be included for up to five years, I would just like to say to you: Perhaps you should really look at the draft! The Federal Minister has already carried it out: It is foreseen that first of all the suspect’s guilt may not be difficult and that, second, the punishment does not appear necessary to stop the suspect from criminal acts or to counteract the criminal act by others. It's about special and general prevention. If you do not realize that this is a reasonable measure – and if you do not think that this is the way in which the victim has to be compensated for in advance by the perpetrator and can only be compensated for this action – and if you do not think that this has made a much more favourable arrangement for the victim than it has existed up to then I cannot help God! Finally, I would like to say a few words about civil law: The right to take over is currently under discussion. There are extensive arguments against both the Federal Chamber of Labour and the Federal Chamber of Commerce, there are significant objections to the current draft. – The draft assumes that the rights of minority shareholders must be strengthened, which must be fully underlined. The draft also provides for a relatively large procedure, which at present cannot be said whether it is actually in line with the objective of making decisions in this area relatively quickly, thereby preventing the risk of the companies concerned. Furthermore, this draft is broadly in line with current practices, namely the recommendations in the Anglo-American area, and requires extensive research to be carried out in the context of such an acquisition. The question is simple and simple: Is this draft taking into account the specificities of the Austrian market, in particular the structure of the Austrian companies, in particular the family companies? Or is it perhaps not that acquisitions, as they are planned in the future, can be carried out mainly by foreign companies? I believe that we must pay particular attention to this! Finally, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Justice for their good cooperation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10819	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10840	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For the time being, it must be noted that in 1996 and 1997 very important laws were passed and important to the economy. I would just like to add these: The broker law, the summary of all relevant regulations, the EU Company Law Amending Act, with which we were able to make improvements in the protection of creditors and shareholders and the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises through the establishment and approval of one-person companies, the Consumer Protection Act, the Builder Contract Act, and on the one hand, the Insolvency Change Act, with which we have changed the bankruptcy regulation and implemented procedural accelerations, on the other hand, the Company Reorganisation Act, with which we have set those measures, by means of which insolvency can be identified as possible and can be intervened where this is still possible. In the field of justice, we are also in the near future: I am thinking, for example, of the Takeover Act, whose essential point will certainly be the protection of minority shareholders. I would, however, strongly warn that it will be overregulated. Minister! We must take into account the ownership rights of the shareholders and the owner even larger positions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I come from the laws to the institutions of justice. Minister! Of course, I come back to the district courts to speak. If I look at the budget, on the staff expenditure approach 1/30200, on the investments approach 1/30203 and on the expenses of the approach 1/30207, where there is an increase everywhere, I could actually conclude that there will not be a reduction in the district courts, since these positions have an increasing trend. I expressly appeal to you, Mr Federal Minister, to continue to do everything possible to preserve the district courts whose importance has been increased by the reform of the criminal procedure in 1993! After hearing from the People's Procuratorate today that there should be changes here, I can very well imagine that there could be new dispute settlement cultures in the District Courts. Minister! I've said it before: Local services in the field of justice cannot be restricted to the maintenance of speech and a day of negotiation per week, nor can local services be limited to the creation of basic book extracts by computer. This would lead to further alienation between citizens and justice. I believe that we must have confidence in the authorities and in the administrative bodies, especially in the rural population. On the court structure in Vienna. Federal Minister! What is planned in this report will certainly have a relatively large budgetary impact. As you can hear, you are planning the creation of several courts in Vienna, which are responsible for both civil and criminal matters. Mr. Minister! I wonder, Who wants these dishes? I am told by the Works Committee that all the judges of the Grey House are refusing an overschedule and that the judges of the Civil Justice Court do not wish to exchange their accommodation in the Palace of Justice against the location at the end of the district of Landstraße. Comparable statements are made by the Oberlandesgericht Vienna before, as well as from the Supreme Procuratorate, from the attorney's office, from the lawyers and from the police. Minister! I think it is high time to consider what we want from the political point of view before planning and before construction begins. Mr. Federal Minister! It is all the more surprising to me that your ministry has obviously already drawn up a competition for the planning of a court building on the slaughterhouse grounds, as you can see from the newspapers. Is this about new profiles and the playground of some architects, or is there any concrete ideas in your house? Minister! I believe that an answer to this is important to us in terms of the security of justice, but it is also important for the economy. For the free economy needs a clear legal framework on the one hand and rapid access to the right. And if justice is the right thing to do, it must apply to small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas as well as to urban ones. I mean, justice must not become class justice, where the greats can judge and the little ones stay on the track at the end.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10897	Mrs Hlavac has now been reported to the House. 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10919	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a debate on the division has now begun, a few words on this matter: This is not a decriminalisation. This is clearly an attempt to make things worse. That is not the way to deal with this issue. Rather, it is a new form of response and sanctioning of criminally relevant behaviour. I think that this is a form of debate, which is certainly not suitable for criminality, but is otherwise an appropriate and socially desirable procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially from the victim's point of view, it is a procedure that meets the victim and takes his needs into account. This is otherwise not the case in criminal proceedings. This has already been discussed. I can also imagine expanding the rights of victims, but always in balance with the presumption of innocence and in balance with the defence rights of the suspect. It makes sense for the perpetrator to deal with his sacrifice. I think it is instructive and positive for the perpetrator if he has to deal with the deed and the victim in a completely different way than it is in criminal proceedings. I would also like to focus briefly on the working group on the reform of family law. There is still no agreement on the issue of indebtedness. I must admit that there are still discussions on this subject within our group. However, there are some steps to reform which I very much welcome. One concerns the question of participation in the spouse's operation. There is to be a commitment to participate and there is to be a performance-related remuneration. I think that this is a real step forward, because what has happened so far has, in most cases, really contradicted the interests of the wives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All of us have been confronted in our practice over and over again with wives who have worked together for their lives and have at best received a pocket money. In divorce, they are then living without social security insurance and even without any savings, although they have worked for a lifetime. That is why I think this reform step is particularly important. I would also like to stress that it would be important to pay attention to social security aspects as well. We are now trying to include all incomes in the social security obligation. I believe that this is also important and necessary in this area. Finally, I would like to say the following about the matter of budgetary participation in the divorce procedure: We have so far believed that the rules which the partnership provides for in employment, but also in household work, are sufficient. But now there are decisions by a Senate of the Supreme Court which show us that it is necessary to clarify these rules. This is also planned, and I think that is very important. [[Abg. Steibl: What?]] For it is our desire that women can reconcile work and family. The division of housework is a particularly important concern for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10981	Mr Herzegovina has now been notified to the House. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11003	Mr President. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the statements made by some previous speakers, it is necessary to say a few sentences on the reform of the district courts. Mr Drinkl and Mr Puttinger. I would like to ask you to look at the Court of Auditors' report, a supplement to the 1995 activity report, to III-60 of the supplements, which clearly states what is to be done in district courts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] I'll just read you the succoos. The Court of Auditors says: Based on the evaluation of key figures for performance assessment and other data, the Court of Auditors identified efficiency benefits of larger district courts. – Now comes the crucial sentence, Mr Puttinger: He therefore recommended that the current 59 District Courts in the area of Upper Austria and Salzburg should be grouped together in 33 courts. This is the result of an inquiry by the Court of Auditors. I urge you to study this. It also has multiple from your clubman Khol... [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: There are other things too, not just financial things!]] Mr Puttinger! There have been several promises by him to agree to this reform. The Upper Austrian elections are over. I believe that this issue should now be discussed and debated again. As you know, this is an anachronistic provision from 1920, which means that the national governments must "vote". That belongs to "hearing" changed. They also know that the merger of micro-district courts is only provided where less than one court is systematic or where distances are very close to each other. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The fact that people have to drive 30 kilometers is uninteresting?]] I see it is relatively unsuccessful to discuss this with you today. I would like to add one last comment and tell you what the President of the Oberlandesgericht Graz has said. I regret that the Steir drinker can't hear this now. [[Abg. Steibl: I tell him, don't be afraid!]] His Supreme Court President says in a letter dated 28. The following October 1997... [[Abg. Fink: How many dishes do we block in the Styria?]] The following says our Supreme Court President from Graz, who is responsible for the Styria, Mr Colleague. He says: The combination... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Fink.]] Listen to what the chief expert in the court for Styria and Carinthia says: Therefore, the combination of the micro-courts is not only an essential business command in order to facilitate the rational administration of staff, but also an essential requirement for the judicial system to continue to be able to comply with its constitutional mandate to the population. [[Abg. Fink: Unfortunately he did not let that be said by the herbs!]] Ladies and gentlemen! All those who believe populist, need to preserve obsolete structures, be said: [[Abg. Fink: Come on, where!]] They harm the population – that is the sad aspect – but the damage you will have politically in the end. And that is the comforting aspect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11121	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11142	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! In today's "Salzburger Nachrichten" we speak of "dissonances" in judicial policy, and you are quoted with the following sentences: "Justice must make its work more understandable, otherwise incomprehensible in the population can arise. It is necessary to put in place measures that strengthen confidence, and to abandon things that affect it." I would like to see this opportunity You have offered to Mr Krüger: In each case, to inform you in concrete terms about shortcomings. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I mean, in concrete terms, a Salzburg monster process: the great WEB straf process. In 1989 the announcement was made, 1998 is expected to come to the first judgment. I do not want to address the particular problems here: Arbitration of the experts and judges, as well as the disappearance of the main accused and the acceptance of German citizenship. I would like to inform you that files, i.e. accounting documents, have been destroyed, so that now it is no longer certain how the interests of the injured can be preserved. There is another scandal where the situation of the injured becomes clear. The accounts of Series 4 for 1985 and 1987 also disappeared from the courts held in the Landesgericht Salzburg. But now it comes: In addition, the accounting documents of the residential property building trustee house share company mbH & Co KG OHG Series 4 had disappeared before the start of the criminal proceedings. They couldn't even be confiscated. The accountancy stored on computer is also claimed to have been deleted. The experts therefore had to use to draw up the opinion of later reconstructions. Moreover – now comes the next point! – the documents of this company also disappeared from the financial office responsible for the 4 series in Vienna before the start of the procedure. Now I come to the third point, to the course of the WEB strut procedure with regard to the non-profit WEB. I wonder – with many of the injured – when the preliminary investigation against the responsible organs of the non-profit WEB will finally be completed. The criminal proceedings concerning those responsible in the non-profit WEB are still at the stage of the preliminary investigation. An opinion was put forward for 1993. Federal Minister! This opinion has never been received from our knowledge. We ask ourselves: For what reasons is justice waiting for an overdue opinion for three years? What I mean by this is this: In my opinion, measures are necessary in the fight against economic crime so that no one – I now use your words – is "absorbed" between justice and our people.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11191	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11213	Mr President. Federal Minister! Because of the short speaking time and my colleague's solidarity, I would just like to mention three points that are important to me. First of all, I would like to refer to the Association for Sachwalterschaft. There have been ten years of administration. It has proved itself fully and is an excellent tool to assist mentally handicapped people efficiently. But after ten years it would be time to check whether the original expectations and intentions of the legislator have met. It is to be asked whether it would not be reasonable for the well-informed persons whose wealth management is often very complicated to contribute a certain amount of costs to the company. I think that this group would be financially appropriate. Although the institution is very important, valuable and necessary for the State and our Community, some developments should be questioned. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Whenever there's something "abzucashe", you're here!]] I understandably have a particular concern about the situation of legal practitioners. However, since a very prominent judicial politician has already made almost a plea for the situation of the legal practitioners, I am only more left to support these demands. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Very well done!]] I hope that the situation of legal practitioners will not deteriorate and that the appeal to do so together will not go into emptiness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another reason – that is already the last point – for me to agree to this budget proposal is that much more is spent on the care of prisoners and their medical care than on the last budget. In my opinion, it is extremely important that drugs, for example, be treated and treated well in medical terms. Only then is permanent integration and resocialisation possible in society. If this is the case, then the additional costs have always paid off.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11268	The last speaker in this debate is Mrs Anna Huber. The speaking time that remains for them is 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11292	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As you have also mentioned it, I would like to address the following problem very briefly: The shipping trade in all its facets is becoming increasingly important in consumer behaviour. After the decades of the mail store catalogue, the shopping malls in cyberspace, even the virtual Greißler – especially in the younger generations – are now the very last cry. At the end of the office, the professional housewife of the world does not rush into the supermarket to buy the food for the night meal, but orders it via the Internet in the office – and can then be delivered from the running boy the shopping basket home. In the entire order industry, the sounding cyber-banks are in the process of breaking up, and the Hurra is not only very loud because of the sales figures. Because the legal framework for sofa shopping is currently not too firm. In the European Union, the distance selling directive was adopted in January of this year, which sets at least a certain standard of protection for business transactions outside a store. This distance selling directive, Mr Minister, you mentioned this, should be transposed into Austrian law over the next three years. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mrs Colleague! Do you really read it all?]] Federal Minister! In my opinion, better today than tomorrow... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you really read all of this?]] Mr. Col., take something back! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] [[Abg. Nuremberg: Haigermoser, sit down!]] It should be made better today than tomorrow, because Tele-Shopping has a very rapid need for action in all its forms and we must not be legally lagging behind a rapid development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11376	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The rapporteur, Mrs Speciale, does not wish to conclude. - I ask you to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on the consultative group V of the 1998 budget. This advisory group shall include Chapter 30 of the Federal Estimate and the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate in 841 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this in order to have a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The consultative group V is accepted by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11419	I declare that at today's sitting there were questions 3266/J to 3301/J. Furthermore, there is a request from the honourable Member, Mag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and Comrades, 20/JPR, were brought to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 12. The following agenda was adopted at 9 a.m. on 9 November 1997: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (841 and 841 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for 1998, including investments (910 of the Supplements). For advice: Advisory Group III: External; Advisory Group IX: Economic Affairs; Consultation Group IV: Interior. There is no Question Time at this part-session. The sitting is closed.
