ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e2838	Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to take the places, welcome you very warmly and open the 76. Meeting of the National Council. The meeting was held on the basis of a request pursuant to § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 74. Meeting of 14. ==References== ==References== On May 1, 1997, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. For today's session as prevented, the Dkfm Members are reported. Holger Bauer, Dr. Povysil, Dr. Preisinger, Rosenstingl, Vergestisch and Wabl. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e2878	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to those in the meeting room according to § 23 para. 4 communication distributed by the Rules of Procedure. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Applications pursuant to § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e3122	The genetic engineering people's desire has been met in the Hohenhaus; it has received the number 715 of the supplements. I have a request from Mrs Schwarzenberger, Dr. Kostelka and comrades according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the genetic engineering people's desire at first reading. For the women's people's desire, which has also arrived and which has received the number 716 of the supplements, a request from Mr Hlavac, Mr Rosemarie Bauerund comrades is being made for a first reading. A request for a debate has not been made. We shall therefore immediately be voting on the implementation of the first readings. Firstly, we are voting on the request of Mr Schwarzenberger, Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of conducting a first reading on the genetic engineering people's desire to rise from the seats. – That is unanimously decided. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Hlavac, Mr Rosemarie Bauerund comrades to take the women's people's desire at first reading in 716 of the additions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to be a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously decided. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e3189	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 2506/J tabled just now by Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The call for urgent request, as discussed in the Presidential Conference, will take place without prejudice at 10.30 a.m. in order to enable the Federal Chancellor to hold a foreign appointment. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2148/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e3214	I would also like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 2148/AB to Question 2143/J by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades concerning "NS-Kindereuthanasia – Investigation by Dr Heinrich Gross" by the Federal Minister for Justice. As the urgent debate on a written request has been announced for today's sitting, this brief debate will take place following the negotiation of the urgent question. Notice of applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e3240	In addition, the representatives of Dr. Schmidt and Comrades, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of a Committee of Inquiry on the following subject: Review of the political responsibility of the Federal Government (in particular of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Justice) and suspected illegal influence by political agents in connection with the investigations on the murders of Abdullah Ghaderi-Azar, Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou and Fadel Rasoul on 13 March. July 1989 and the persecution of three of these serious suspects who were able to leave Austria despite clear indications. It is also the one of five delegates according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. The debate and the vote on this matter will take place after the end of the negotiations of this meeting. The Members of Parliament also have power. Stadler and comrades according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, requests the setting up of an investigation committee on the following matters: Examination of political and legal responsibility in connection with the sale of the federal shares in the credit institution and bank Austria and, secondly, with the implementation of the Export Promotion Act and the Export Funding Act. There is also the desire to hold a debate. The debate and the vote will take place after the end of the negotiations on the Committee of Inquiry, which was previously announced by the Liberal Forum. I am just told that Mr Rosenstingl has been announced as an obstacle, but he is now taking part in the sitting. – I ask you to take note of this. As no further requests have been made, I am now interrupting the sitting. I will resume the negotiations at 10.30 a.m. and begin with the call for urgent request. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 8.09 a.m. and resumed at 10.31 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e3292	I'll start the interrupted session again. I think it would be a nice gesture to congratulate Mr Bundeskanzler on his yesterday and Mr Vice-Chancellor on his great birthday. [[General condolences.]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornand comrades to the Federal Chancellor concerning post-chachers at the expense of taxpayers (2506/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e3338	We arrive at the treatment of the urgent request 2506/J. This urgent question has now been addressed to all the Members of Parliament, and the reading by the scribe is therefore unnecessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e3722	The first signatory to the urgent question is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. I give him a statement of reasons according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The maximum speaking time is 20 minutes. Please, Mr Prinzhorn.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e3743	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor! When we liberals called for a special meeting here in the house six months ago on the subject of banks, CA-buying by Bank Austria, this caused a middle earthquake – but the aftershocks of this earthquake seem to grow even greater. Again, a similar vortex is in the suit; the bank tragedy has taken on a dimension that we could not imagine at the time. I recall the Government Convention of December/January 1997, in which points were decided, such as: The CA remains independent. There is even a decision of law from 1991 that national interests in CA privatisation should be the priority and therefore the Austrian influence should be the determining factor. What do we have today? – A profit collection contract between Bank Austria and CA, a mastery agreement between Bank Austria and CA. In particular, the profit collection contract will still be interesting, since it suggests that losses from Bank Austria should be offset against CA profits. However, other points of this government agreement are still not fulfilled, in particular the settlement offer for small shareholders is still not on the table. – In reality, all CA small shareholders have since suffered enormous damage: The price has fallen to 500, the common shares have fallen by 20 percent. The small shareholders were invited to the cash register. But this will be a "less" problem in the future, as the new small shareholder representative in the CA is none other than the law firm Eckert, namely Dr. Eckert personally, who has a lawyer's mandate at Bank Austria. The small shareholders will then be very "very good". But there are also quite other things, such as the novelle to the Savings Act, which remains waiting for it – but this is a pro-proportional appeal, for what do we hear of Mr Ulrich from the First Austrian Sparkasse recently: For God's sake, a change to the Savings Act, a privatisation of the savings banks – the social order of the savings banks, which is in the foreground of the savings banks, is lost! – A whole new division! – But with the socialists, something else rules: They fear only for their money, for their influence – that governs their world! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Privatization has no hurry. Mayor Häupl says: Oh, that's six years, maybe more! The First Austrian Savings Bank does not push either, it even knows what it is about to privatize. Bank Austria remains Austrian!, it has been explained. The first general offer had Italian influence – as objectionable. Bank Austria remains Austrian! Of course, the influence of the Westphalian Landesbank is very interesting: it is not only the dividend policy of Bank Austria – according to its statutes – but far more than it would be thought because of the 10.4 percent. Interestingly, WestLB has also received funding for its increase at the AVZ from no one other than Bank Austria – what a surprise! The WestLB was granted a loan by Bank Austria, a subordinate loan to sell Austrian interests to Germany. How interesting! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's where abysses open!]] The SPD determines the WestLB – that's nothing new – and the SPD therefore also determines at Bank Austria. The red "Pyramid Games" have become international – a new dimension we experience in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But how does the Federal Chancellor say so sympatheticly? – He said he knew nothing about all of this. – Although at the time he had to give his approval as Minister of Finance to sell more than 10 percent of the shares in the WestLB. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Haider and Mag. Stadler.]] He as Minister of Finance knew nothing about this! – Mr Bundeskanzler! You were financial controllers at ÖMV, you understand something about this business, don't say: My name is climate, I don't know anything! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] But the deception about Bank Austria continues. The investor brochure of May 1997 of Bank Austria in German version shows nothing – nothing at all! – of a right of appeal of the WestLB. Investors will not be informed about this. In the English version, however, you can already read it. Perhaps Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger thought: Do not understand English!, maybe that's a way to turn over there! [[Further condolences with the liberals.]] But to an address you have to address a very massive accusation, namely: The President of the Stock Exchange has violated the Stock Exchange Act, and the President of the Stock Exchange has deceived investors! – The President of the Stock Exchange is none other than the Director-General of Bank Austria! All of this fits perfectly together. However, the information on Bank Austria's operations in 1996 has also been a long time ahead. For a long time, what's going on, now we've got the annual report at once – and what do we read in it? – Very little! No stock valuation of Bank Austria, nothing at all. We only read that the surplus of Bank Austria has just accounted for half of the CA surplus. – It seems to me that the wrong person bought the right one. That's what it looks like! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What has President Sellitsch said on this matter? – He said: That's all very clear: All this is a lie of opposition! On the show "To cause" he was experienced live. In reality, 1997 is the same: In the first quarter, CA's revenues have improved, and Bank Austria has stagnated. For the small shareholders, the dividend distribution in 1996 may also be very interesting. The CA had proposed it by 15 percent, and only because of massive intervention of Bank Austria has the dividend been reduced by CA to 12 percent – so that CA does not issue a higher dividend than Bank Austria. This was already an influence by Bank Austria to show the small shareholders where Bartl is getting his must, namely at Bank Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But Bank Austria did not deserve anything in the group either. The group result is even worse than the bank result isolated. That means the participations have lost money. By manipulations and beautifications in 1995 – Tag: Unitec xxx cf. Sn – with 90 million profits distributed 300 million to Bank Austria, to enhance the results of Bank Austria. No one has talked about the 10 million reduction in capital. In consolidation it would have been seen, but we still have a long time for the consolidation guidelines. But I do not wonder about this method, because the beauty of the Minister of Finance celebrated happy originals, and therefore it is no surprise that Bank Austria has taken over from there. – This is how Austria is "randized", ladies and gentlemen! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] But at the same time one buys the Sparkasse Stockerau, immediately eliminates the non-socialist head of the Sparkasse Stockerau and puts a socialist down, which of course has even more influence. – And so, in principle, the whole deal is "Bank Austria": It is about power and money and not at all about revenues, dividends and the Austrian capital market. But you can also get hold of the press very well. For example, the "Salzburger Nachrichten" had been shortened the ads from Bank Austria since reporting on Bank Austria. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's not it! The Bank Austria will soon be in the house of a constitutional action. The lawyers of the "Salzburger Nachrichten" are already checking this. So: As I am speaking here today, there is also an economic danger, for all critics, within themselves. I have to remember that very well! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Lenzing AG disappears and, where he has the say in the Lenzing, gives his friend Liaunig the command, because there it is dangerous, there you might be able to pull something there and relocate as Supervisory Board President to Wienerberger. He has no shares of Wienerberger! The CA is supposed to remain independent, it has the shares of Wienerberger. He is already Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Wienerberger! The dynamics of "Randization" is increasing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But the liberals have agreed!]] In order for the stock exchange not to have a mood, common shares are now not being brought to the stock exchange, but are currently looking for preferential shares to buy internationally. WestLB and Cariplo have already been greeted; today they have the dominant influence in Bank Austria and no one else! Don't let the 10.4 percent fool you. In the O-tone the ÖVP to add: The savings bank must remember its social responsibility! – You’re just Siamese twins in this partnership, Siamese twins from AVZ and something AVS; that’s the combination. Or tell me what the social order is about buying, as a bank Austria, 100 million Schilling National Bank shares from SPÖ, but not even a return is given! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] No end to the strange business. Wiener Holding takes up its company for Bank Austria and takes up shares for it. Bank Austria sells Perlmooser to Lafarge, one of the main Austrian construction companies. – Austrians are not even invited. The Giro stake is sold by 2 billion book profits to the AVZ. The ÖVP agrees, of course, that you could even need this at the AVS. – This is the condition in which we are currently in the savings bank sector! It is no wonder, therefore, that entire departments of Bank Austria are currently leaving the bank. London goes to RZB, Budapest goes to Banca, whole departments just flee to competition telquel. One may be excited about how this will affect future yield development. But there are also positive things to report about this merger, for example in connection with the Semmering Tunnel: There are three construction companies, Porr, STUAG and Universale, and these three construction companies can now very well judge this 7 billion contract. In this case, they save the DDr. Jud. You don't need a double representative, who once advises the state as a buyer and once as a seller, you can then make it up internally at Bank Austria. – Very practical, I can only say! – Mrs Fekter! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I know that you are affected in the construction industry. Listen to me when I say how it is in the construction industry! I know you're very affected, Mrs. Fekter. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The control bank is actually tragic. The annual report of the Control Bank has a profit of more than 500 million, which is where Bank Austria, CA and RZB are well involved in partnership. No risk, only profit, black and red, the highest paid directors of the Republic. I recall Director-General Hashek, who had already had a reference to 10 million schilling ten years ago. Who is surprised that 570 million pension provisions appear in this bank, which are divided in proportion? [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] However, the Supervisory Boards of the Control Bank are not too short: 2.8 million schillings are divided between supervisory councils. These are the Directors-General of Bank Austria, CA and RZB. Of course, the lion's share is cut off – I don't need to tell you who that is, you already know – won! Randa! Right! That's it. However, the control bank is only a trustee of the state. It has no risk, and therefore the export financing structure is a joke. It is unique; it only existed in communist countries, but it is no longer there either. She's unique in the world. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the case of capital market measures, the control bank has failed anyway, which should be submitted to a privatised stock exchange. The control bank can actually dissolve you! The control bank transfers the risks to others, and in the end the banks share the profits from the protected area – that's how it looks! – red and black! I also have to tell you the following: The 130 billion nationalised losses are also being "improved" in addition. If one imagines that the need for re-indebtedness in the control bank affects the national area of around 100 billion to 90 percent, one can ultimately derive from further subsidies of the nationally subsidized area of taxpayers' money of 70 to 90 billion. Then we are still at 200 billion schilling of damage in the nationalized sector, and then the profits of VOEST-ALPINE and VA-Tech look relatively low. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of red and black! The P.S.K. The next action will be soon. There too, it is beautifully divided between the Vienna cities of the SPÖ and the BARC of Raiffeisen-ÖVP. A call for proposals But you have to do it, we're going to worry about it. You'll be the P.S.K. must write out! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] And if Mr. Dr. Schüssel is hiding in this point in order to do to his Mr. Konrad a favor that has been slowed down or abandoned by the ÖVP at the CA, then this is already talking about how it will be going in the future. – But deceive Don't you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the Wiener Städtisch will have the say there! You'll be there just as much as CA. In the final effect, the Wiener Städtisch, SPÖ and the municipality of Vienna will rule there, and you will look through your fingers again! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 1980 everything looked quite different in relation to the AKH scandal. At that time, German Chancellor Kreisky – due to these conditions – has set up ten points for cleanliness in politics. In the "Worker News" I read the ten commandments of Bruno Kreisky – you can also read this in other newspapers, for example in the "Kurier": "10 Polit-Gebote Kreiskys for Cleanliness in Austria". – The poor would turn in the grave today if he saw the five points of Mr. Federal Chancellor. From ten points you have dropped to five points, and the five points have the same content as 17 years ago. I have to tell you: The end of the political influence is not to be overlooked! The Peymann occupation by Mr Bachler has been carried out without a call for tender, without hearing. Your Secretary of State Wittmann said: You can't do that, that depresses the employees who are not sure, there are no hearings! Federal Chancellor! But your former secretary Marc Hall is also a good example of influence. Mr Ruttenstorfer, State Secretary, has been expelled from the Board of Directors of ÖMV and has been looking for a post-retirement job for half a year. Marc Hall is supposed to be! But unfortunately: The internal evaluation procedure results in someone quite different. And what do you do? For six months the board has not been ordered. Do you believe that this will benefit the public authorities? Do you believe that this benefits from public participation in the ÖMV? – Privatisation You are the whole thing to end this influence at last! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the ÖVP should not believe that it was quite different, I am thinking about the occupation by Professor Husslein at the AKH, where he is located in the hearing and in the assessment process. Only when massive pressure by Treichl, the current general of the First Austrian Sparkasse, has been exerted by the then financial referent Treichl, has been put into action, and Dr. Busek has been taken first, although he has hardly had any points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] That's how it looks with you! So you don't even need to get older about how things are going in the socialist field, because you're doing the same thing! [[Further condolences with the liberals.]] I can only tell you: All of this is of no use. The ten points of Bruno Kreisky are 17 years old, the five points of the German Chancellor's climate have only been a few months old and have arisen from the horror of the terrible circumstances surrounding the control bank. And I tell you, Federal Chancellor: You can also save these five points! In reality, this is to be reduced to one point, ladies and gentlemen: It is all allowed, only it is not allowed to be caught by the liberals!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e3938	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him. The time limit of 20 minutes is a target. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e3960	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to thank you very much for the congratulations on my birthday yesterday. I assume that this was not the reason for this special meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to apologise for leaving the plenary session at 12 noon because of an urgent international commitment, which I believe has been announced in the President. I will be represented by the Federal Minister for Finance, to which a large number of questions are certainly addressed. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The party is more important than Parliament!]] This international commitment concerns the important Austrian positions in the Government Treaty, which will be concluded in Amsterdam between the Member States of the European Union. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The Socialist International!]] As part of a meeting of the Heads of Government, it is prepared that the important concerns in the area of social union and employment union in particular be enforced – because we want the European Union to become a strong economic union and a strong employment and social union, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Allow me, at the outset, to point out that I do not consider it very appropriate to qualify on a flat-rate basis those highly qualified employees who are at the disposal of the Ministries and the Federal Chancellery. I am in favour - and this has also been the subject of a joint motion for a resolution by four parties in this Parliament - of ensuring openness, transparency in the appointment of board and managing directors in companies that are under the influence of the public authorities. In this context, it is important to make it clear that, in cases where the public authorities are responsible for ownership functions, they are also aware of this responsibility, but it is being dealt with in all openness and transparency. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this five-point programme, as you call it, is not in any way oblique or unnecessary. First: It is possible under the existing tendering law that subsidiaries or subsidiaries of companies holding the majority of the public sector may not carry out tenders. This is legally possible, but I am very grateful for the fact that the vast majority of this Parliament is of this opinion, that we are closing this gap, so that in all the companies to be examined by the Court of Auditors at federal, state and local level, the public procurement of management and managing functions is mandatory. This is an essential extension of the existing law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I think it makes sense and necessary in the same way that it is also made known who are the Supervisory Board members or the owners responsible for the occupations of board and board functions. Thirdly, I think it is very necessary for standard contracts to be drawn up in full clarity – standard contracts, contractual models that correspond to performance orientation and which are to be applied as a scheme for all new contracts. Fourth: I think it is necessary – and I believe this is also an essential step – for us to put national and international trade comparisons in order to establish market-oriented references. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fifth and last point, namely the full publication of the contributions of managing directors and board members, even if they are below the 80 000 S limit, is also a contribution to greater transparency. And if we implement this, we have taken an essential political step in this direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank the four parties who have supported this motion for a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! On the situation of the banks – I hope we will be able to discuss the problems ahead in a matter of time and in peace with each other at this special meeting. [[Call the liberals:Schools!]] This is necessary in the interests of the Austrian economy, because scandalizing damages the banking industry, harms the employees in the banks and, of course, also damages the Austrian economy as a whole. Therefore: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of fact and not of scandal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Scool has hurt whom you have pushed in, Minister!]] The aim of the Coalition Agreement on CA sales was to give a signal for the withdrawal of policy from the banks. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Scholten, this is a retreat!]] The current debate, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly the opposite. Instead of the withdrawal of politics, there is a politicization. If it is not really discussed here, but scandalized, it has the consequence that the Republic of Austria cannot sell its shares at the best possible price to the detriment of the taxpayer! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Scholten put her in! And you're making yourself up and talking about depoliticization!]] And this politic spectacle will not, of course, be able to find the condolences – that is clear to you – of future investors. It harms employees, taxpayers and companies in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to your questions in detail, ladies and gentlemen: Question 1: ==References== It is, and I think, particularly important to implement point-by-point in January 1997. Trustworthy partners reach an agreement that needs to be implemented point by point. This, ladies and gentlemen, is by no means just an agreement between the government parties – that is particularly important – but this agreement was also signed by the political representatives of the municipality of Vienna and also by the buyer of Bank Austria, Director General Randa. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He mocks you.]] [[continuing calls to the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Randa, the Freeman!]] It is an agreement between three partners, and this agreement, which we will provide for intergovernmental parties, is to be implemented jointly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Federal Chancellor, then replace Randa!]] [[Abg. Grabner: Khol, Lord again!]] Is that a policy influence? On your specific question: In my capacity as Minister of Finance, I signed this agreement between political parties and the owner and buyer. On question 2: I, when it was necessary, informed the Federal Government of the appropriate approach in the Council of Ministers. Questions 3 to 5: I was during the sale process of the federal shares in the credit institution and the above agreement on 12 February. January on the content of the company contract between the AVZ – a owner of the Bank Austria – and the Westdeutsche Landesbank. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible!]] I would not have had access to this information, ladies and gentlemen, either in my responsibility for banking supervision at the time or in that of being the owner of the Federal Shares of CA. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You will be caught soon!]] However, I have added clearly and openly that this pre-purchasing right of the West German Landesbank to the agreement of 12. There is no influence on January 1997. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't even believe that your own grandmother!]] Not on what was decided in the municipality of Vienna a week ago, but on what the political parties with the owner of Bank Austria were doing on 12 November. In 1997 the purchase right of the Westdeutsche Landesbank is without influence. The purchasing right of the Westdeutsche Landesbank is limited in time, as you know, first until March 2001 and, secondly, does not apply to the shares of the Republic of Austria in Bank Austria. That is, the commitment we have entered into – these 19 percent shares held by the Republic of Austria in Bank Austria – is not affected by this pre-purchasing right. The withdrawal of the AVZ, which could not be decided by us, was promised by Randa and was also decided by the AVZ a few weeks later in accordance with the agreement of the AVZ, is dominant – which has always been explained – about capital increases and exchange of shares, and for this also the pre-purchasing right of the WestLB is without any meaning. A remainder of a sale may be made after the pre-purchasing rights of the WestLB have expired, and therefore this 17-point program can be fully implemented without the application of a pre-purchasing right. ==References====External links== In January 1997, the legally binding declaration on the fulfilment of this condition – point 1 of this 17-point catalogue – was sent in writing to the Federal Minister for Finance. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the sale process and the agreement were in no way relevant to the question of a possible pre-purchasing right of a shareholder of the Bank Austria like the WestLB. It was clear that the reduction in the shares of the AVZ should have been mainly through this exchange or the capital increase. Questions 6 to 8: In view of the circumstances I have just described, it is not for the WestLB to discuss the acquisition of the majority of voting rights at Bank Austria. From the WestLB's temporary pre-purchasing right to sell abroad is misleading, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Questions 9 to 12: The Company Agreement was concluded between the AVZ and the WestLB. Such a company agreement is a private contract. It was the subject of a decision-making in the AVZ, where, of course, there is no supervisory body of banking supervision, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, and the Supervisory Board of Bank Austria was obviously not to deal with it. I therefore ask for understanding, ladies and gentlemen, that the question raised is also not related to the implementation of federal competences. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The next untruth! We'll prove this, you'll be amazed, I'll tell you!]] This would be very fine, Mr President, if you were to do so. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I wouldn't drive away at your place!]] I should like to make the following point, honourable Member: I said clearly and clearly that I did not know anything about this sales option, nor did I have to know and know anything. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Solve Randa!]] On the question 13: As you know, the stock package of the federal government – 17 percent of the capital of Bank Austria – is parked in the postal equity company. According to the Federal Act of 1991 and the purchase contract concluded between the Republic and the postal investment company, the sale must be made as much as possible. The postal investment company is tasked with drawing up a privatisation concept. It will have to take into account, in particular, the aspects of optimising income within the meaning of the taxpayer and the widest possible distribution of private, respect for the capital market situation, budgetary responsibility and, of course, public financial interests. The decision-making basis for fulfilling the coalition agreement by the end of 1997 will be available in June. Question 14: I refer to what I said about points 11 to 12, and I should like to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the view expressed here in the question that Austrian interests have been violated is clearly not given. In the sale of the CA shares by the Republic, the following points were crucial: the best possible sale, the preservation of national interests and the improvement of the structure of banking. All these points can and will be fulfilled with the purchase of Bank Austria and with the buyer Bank Austria. That certainly does not change today's debate. As mentioned above, the Coalition Agreement has maintained the gradual withdrawal of the AVZ. So the pre-purchasing right of the WestLB is, as has been said, limited to March 2001. Question 15: Ladies and gentlemen! A reprocessing of the CA sale is, of course, a serious legal matter, and it lacks any legal and factual basis. On the question 16: To this end, I would like to inform you of the Federal Minister for Finance's reply. The Federal Minister for Finance has already taken up the work on a novel to the Savings Act, which is in line with the resolution of the National Council of 14 March. January 1997 to grant the municipal savings funds – and only they have a liability – a right to vote, whether to waive the liability or to pay a liability premium paid by an expert for the benefit of the liability. In order to avoid possible distortions of competition, it is also necessary to examine and analyse other liability groups. On the question 17: Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to note that this broad involvement was an important prerequisite for the acceptance and implementation of structural adjustment measures. This situation has proved itself very well in the course of the 1991 merger. A legal change would constitute a serious intervention into the legislative autonomy of all savings banks and therefore weaken the right to co-determination, which we naturally do not want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the question 18: ==References====External links== In June 1997, the draft federal law on the sale of federal assets had already been adopted and sent to the National Council for constitutional treatment. The main content of the draft law is the new regulation for the privatisation of contributions in the ownership of the federal government: a privatisation concept for each undertaking to be privatised. The award must be given to the consent of the Federal Government if privatisation is not carried out via the stock exchange and, finally, the main committee of the National Council must report on the sale made. All existing empowerments to privatization are also covered by the new rules, and therefore the ÖIAG Act and the Poststructural Act 1996 are also accordingly amended. As regards question 19 concerning planned privatisation steps in 1997 and 1998: It is planned in the privatization concept of ÖIAG 1996 to launch a stock exchange at Austria's tobacco plants with the aim of placing the majority of the stock capital of Austria's tobacco plants in the public. Austrian State Printing: According to the State Printing Act 1996, the shares rights of the Federal Government are transferred to ÖIAG in 1998, so that privatisation can take place. A specific date is not yet fixed. Ladies and gentlemen! The sale of the federal shares in Bank Austria – which I have already explained – should be done as much as possible. At the Österreichische Postsparkass, 49 percent of the shares – in accordance with the law adopted by you – are to be sold by the postal investment company according to a restructuring and privatisation concept to be decided upon. Dates for this are not yet fixed. In the case of Post and Telekom Austria, a stock exchange is to be introduced by the end of 1999 in accordance with Poststructural Law 1996. Question 20: A novel to the Banking Act, which should shorten the transitional period for the inclusion of financial holding companies in consolidation by one year, was already in the review. On question 21: The draft Takeover Act will be sent together for review by the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Federal Ministry of Finance around the middle of June 1997. On the question 22: The influence of the banks on the stock exchange or on Börse AG will be clearly reduced – and I believe this to be important – because the interests of issuers and investors have to be included, even half a year ago, in my capacity as Minister of Finance. The total exclusion of any bank participation in the stock exchange would be completely inappropriate and not fair at international level. On the question 23: I can hardly answer this question with a yes. Question 24: As far as this law fell into my place of business responsibility: yes. On the question 27: At the time of the occupation of the future Burgtheater director, after mature consideration, I have chosen a procedure to ensure expertise, the necessary trust and the necessary objectivity. I know that there has been no criticism of this occupation by any of the representatives of the FPÖ in question here. The legislator has expressly not provided for an invitation to tender for the directors of the individual houses of the Bundestheater in 1989. On the basis of a clear profile, it was therefore appropriate to prepare the selection of the new director for the Burgtheater very carefully in numerous discussions with theatre experts, critics, ensemble members, theatre scientists and actors. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What are your five points?]] Since most of the interlocutors asked for confidentiality, I asked to take a name in the individual distance. In the public presentation of the future Burgtheater Director, I explained very clearly the reasons for the decision. On questions 25, 26, 28 and 35: Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer once again to the explanations of the five-point programme. I think it is important that the State in its sphere of influence ensure that responsibility is exercised, especially in the appointment of qualified bodies. On question 29: The essential prerequisite for an objective job creation is the clearly structured responsibility within economic enterprises. Therefore, decision-makers, usually supervisory councils, should not be affected in their decision either. Question 30: Yes. According to the Constitution, the President of the Court of Auditors has the task of controlling all companies which the State has influence. He is also entrusted as an independent non-influenced body. On questions 31 and 32: Ladies and gentlemen! In the economy, this has to be done by the responsible decision-makers; in the case of a stock company of the Supervisory Board. This task is no more difficult than for each Supervisory Board of a AG. As these are companies which are on the market, Question 32 is therefore also answered. On question 33: Written in a report by the Court of Auditors in the "Official Journal on the Vienna newspaper". Finally, on the basis of the many questions, Mr President, I have covered my speaking time a short answer to question 34: the Court of Auditors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4279	We are now going into the debate. The speaking times in the debate of a urgent request are known. First speaker is Mr. Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4303	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, you are honoured if you say that you are travelling abroad for Austria and therefore have to leave Parliament early. I would, however, like to draw attention to the fact that this is not a task that you are doing as a representative of the Republic, but rather as a party chairman of the Social Democratic Party of Austria. They drive to the Socialist International – and are not on the way to the government commission. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not true!]] That is why it would be better for you to stay here and hold the debate in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You try to pretend in this situation as if your name was rabbit and knew nothing. But this "signifies" the political caste of our country, which is currently ruling at all. So suddenly no one was in charge in the Praschak question, although Mr Scholten was forced to be provided there. On the issue of liability for the Austrian Control Bank: 103 billion schilling risk! This means that the taxpayer will have to pay the bill. And the Federal Chancellor says: We are not responsible for this; the Austrian control bank does not belong to us. A large-scale coalition plan is attached to the question of the post post post post post post in the post office: The chancellor Secretary Krammer and Deputy Chancellor Koren are to be provided. – Both do not have a banking qualification, but are to become directors of the new post-sparkas. Officially, we don't know anything about this. With regard to Bank Austria, the Federal Chancellor claims that no sale to abroad has been made – and he also knows nothing at all. Federal Chancellor! That will be to be examined. Minister of Finance Edlinger said that this was known to a certain circle. I assume that the German Chancellor climate, the former Minister of Finance, is not exactly an insignificant person in this circle. Mr Häupl said that everyone knew that this agreement had been concluded in 1995. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: With the AVZ...!]] Federal Chancellor! If you don't believe it, I'll show you the partnership agreement you don't seem to know. [[The speaker has several sheets of paper.]] This is not a company contract, it is a shareholder contract. – One should know that this is a difference. – This partnership agreement states that it is not only a pre-purchasing right but a real link between WestLB and Bank Austria. It could also be said that this is a real "control agreement". Although the WestLB takes over only 10 percent, it is agreed, for example, that all General Meetings can only be agreed jointly and that the use of the balance sheet profits will be jointly carried out, changes in the statutes will only be carried out jointly, as well as measures of capital raising and capital reduction, even a disbandment of the society can only be carried out jointly; i.e. agreed decisions of all important strategic issues, i.e. further development. – This is a real "control agreement", Mr. Bundeskanzler! The WestLB is even admitted that its chairman, Neubauer, a friend of Vranckky, is in the Supervisory Board at his lifetime; he can no longer be dropped. A second Supervisory Board will then be ordered. – And then you say that all is nothing, just an option for the future. That's the sale! Ladies and gentlemen! That's the breaking of the law! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the breach of the law insofar as the law provides for an Austrian solution, and I have always supported you very much when you were Finance Ministers and said: [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Yes!]] I stick to the letters of the law. I also said: You will receive a complaint if you do not give the best bid if you do not make an Austrian solution possible. – The "Austrian solution" now looks like a huge sale has taken place. No one has been informed about this because apparently a chosen circle of social-democratic politicians has said: The WestLB is the red parade bank in Germany, with which we make a liaison that we bring in, because a red bank is more important than a red and white-red solution. – This has put 20 000 jobs at risk! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the same game as at Semperit, the same game as in the sale of Lenzing AG, which has also been heard by the majority of Bank Austria. It is the same game as in the control bank, where the Austrian taxpayer is liable for billions, while the value added is made up of 80 percent abroad. That means that you can secure jobs abroad. They sell off through this banking deal the jobs of at least 20 000 Austrian bank employees abroad and take up a voting agreement. Now there's something else, Federal Chancellor: With this "control agreement", which is apparently not very common to you in terms of content, we have for the first time the situation that the Austrian National Bank is dominated by a foreign bank, because Bank Austria now has a seat in the General Council with the purchase of socialist shares in the Austrian National Bank and Bank Austria/CA now belongs to the WestLB. That means: The red bank WestLB in Germany is thus ruling in the Austrian National Bank. – That is exactly what the law forbids! There's a double break! You really have all your hands full to do that order! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you now say that this has not been so well-known, you will of course get a shot from your vice chancellor, who has already covered his head again. According to today's edition of the "Small Newspaper", Schüssel said – after a few ardents in the ÖVP, who have expressed that this is not the case: I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Randa, for the excellent work he has done. He has not informed his comrades, he has not informed us of the ÖVP and obviously not the Haider! Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know that the shareholder contract, on page 3, reads as follows? – I quote: This Agreement shall not become binding until the competent authorities give or confirm any approval required in connection with the acquisition of participation without significant obligations. - Quote. This means that an authorisation has been necessary for this partnership agreement. Please look at the banking law that you have decided on yourself. It is stated in Section 20: Anyone who intends to hold a qualified participation in a credit institution directly or indirectly shall inform the Federal Minister of Finance in writing, stating the amount of that participation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Gotten, Herr Bundeskanzler!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Who was the Federal Minister for Finance at the time? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who was that?]] Federal Chancellor! I cannot spare you the accusation of knowingly saying the untruth before Parliament and yesterday after the Council of Ministers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's unheard of!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Here seems to be a bigger game in progress. The Federal Chancellor does not know that he is legally obliged. Either you have not informed your officials – but that sounds very strange to me, because you are someone who has the staff strictly on the kandare. You know everything, just... You don't know this important point?- Oh, my God! In my view, this has to do with the fact that another provision in this partnership agreement is interesting, which contains the following: The shareholders undertake to maintain silence on this agreement and on its content, on the content of meetings of shareholders and on all information exchanged under this Agreement. [[Call to the liberals:Aha!]] So you seem to have played there and said: No one but our comrades will find out anyway. That's why we're going over it, and we're moving the ÖVP over the table. She has to shut up anyway, because she finally wants to go to the P.S.K. She is involved in the Raiffeisensericherung (Raiffeisensericher) and she gets a bite together with the Wiener Städtisch. She wants to merge the first with the GiroCredit, even there the ÖVP needs the "Segen" of the Reds. It also wants consolidation for the Raiffeisen banks so that the primary banks can be removed from equity. The ÖVP also wants to bury the OeKB bodies together with us, because blacks also agreed there. And the ÖVP may not want to be punished by the Minister of Finance to repay the 3.3 billion schilling to the Austrian economy too many cashed foreign trade funding contributions. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Honourable Society!]] That is the background of this story, and therefore I say, Federal Chancellor: They were fully informed! They have received the information – this is also reflected in the minutes of the Savings Council. This shows that you deliberately misled the public. Minister of Finance Androsch was punished because he did not tell the truth before Parliament. To this end, I must say: It will have to apply the same right to all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore necessary to set up at least a committee of inquiry on this matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4472	Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4487	Federal Chancellor! I would ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to stay here. I cannot rule out the fact that, if you cannot explain this case, it will come to a vote of distrust in the Austrian Parliament against you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4526	Mr Dr. Khol spoke in favour of an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4558	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker said that Deputy Chancellor Stephan Koren P.S.K. should become a member of the board. – I am dealing with the right facts: Stephan Koren is not the secretary of Mr. Vice chancellor. The Boards of Postsparkasse are publicly advertised. Whoever will apply is not known.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4588	For business treatment, Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4609	Mr President. In reply to the urgent question raised by Mr Prinzhorn and colleagues in this House, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany apparently said the untruth in two cases. Mr President. I therefore urge you to ensure that the Stenographical Protocol of its statements - if it goes on - is made available to the political groups at this meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4633	This is not a word for business treatment, because it is not aimed at the establishment of a business orderly state. However, I am prepared to leave to Parliament's management of course what it always does with regard to stenographic protocols. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4658	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would have liked to know who you are visiting. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In two cases I caught you!]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I received the following information from the staff of the Ministry of Finance: There is no obligation to transfer a shareholder contract to the Federal Ministry of Finance, and there is no such partnership agreement in the Federal Ministry of Finance – and therefore no information on it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And what can be done by the Minister of Finance? This is illegal if the Minister of Finance can do so!]] But I can tell you something else: ==References== In December 1995, the Westdeutsche Landesbank Giro-Centrale requested an appropriate review of the proposed acquisition of a stake in Bank Austria in the Federal Ministry of Finance. The Federal Minister for Finance, according to my employees' statement, does not have to check whether it is a domestic or a foreign owner, but has to assess whether the influence exerted by the owner is sufficient for the claims to be made in the interests of sound and prudent management of the credit institution. This is undoubtedly the case with a renowned bank such as the Westdeutsche Landesbank, and it has therefore become, ladies and gentlemen, by letter of 26. January 1996 by Mag. Riemer... [[Abg. May. Stadler: By letter from the January ’96! A year before you have reached an agreement with the ÖVP where you write the opposite!]] ==References== In January 1996, it was announced that there were no concerns about the acquisition of shares in Bank Austria at the time, I think. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's where you have to ask for all the documents!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say once again that the agreement between the shareholders is not in the Ministry of Finance, nor must it be in accordance with the banking law. And that's nothing but the truth.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4734	Mr Stadler has reported on an actual correction. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure are known. Speech time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4758	Mr President. High house! The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has just claimed, in fact, that this shareholder contract and the content of this shareholder contract, as it has already been referred to today, is not to be shown to the Minister of Finance. – This is incorrect. § 20 of the Banking Act requires any bank which intends to sell such holdings to already indicate their intention. Federal Chancellor! This is a law you have to implement. You have referred to these provisions yourself in the invitation to tender for the sale of the CA shares in the "Amtsblatt zur Wiener Zeitung". That's why your statement is incorrect.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4792	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4848	Mr President. High house! What we have just experienced is again an example of an actual correction, which is not an actual correction, because there is no difference at all between what the Federal Chancellor has said and what is in the law. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Principality, which I sometimes appreciate, has really been sorry today. – Deputy Haider not. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Learn the four verses of the Socialist International!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In fact, anyone who understands a little bit of economic interrelation must be dissatisfied if we in Parliament are to be extremely emotional about individual companies, without regard to economic damage. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to quote you from an editorial in today's issue of "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten". It's written: And if high treason – you know who used this word; interestingly, that you compare yourself there – was the speech, is it not rather betrayal when leading politicians – and you see it from the previous, it is meant Jörg Haider – organise such a theatre against their knowledge at the expense of the reputation of the bank square Austria, to the detriment of the leading bank? [[Abg. Aumayr: You use it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Schuschnigg!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Protect the perpetrator, not the victim!]] That's in the Upper Austrian News. And I'd like to join this whole thing. "Treason" is here, and I have to say, unfortunately it is right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Protect the perpetrator, not the victim!]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You protect the perpetrator!]] – Please deal with the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten"! If it fits you, please quote it very much. Today, where there's something in the business section that doesn't fit you into your stuff, you'll interestingly come back with the assumption that everything is only determined by ads. This is your method: What does not fit you will be answered with submissions. We will not participate in this method! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What exactly is it about? The sale of CA to Bank Austria was clearly a right measure. We have just received the opinion of the Warburg Bank House, which shows that there are significant synergies and that a European-scale credit company has been created and that this step has begun with a restructuring of the Austrian credit economy, which is clearly positive overall. As far as property matters are concerned, I would like to point out that there is a serious misunderstanding. It is sometimes done this way – and this has also been done with Mr Prinzhorn today – as if only a stock company were an efficient form of organization, and it is therefore a mistrust of so-called own-ownerial forms of organization such as savings banks or cooperatives. Economically, this is completely wrong. The question of legal form is completely independent of the question of economic performance – both in good and in bad. And especially the savings bank sector – and I am referring here to both municipal savings banks and club savings banks – has proved to be extremely successful in this country, and we are certainly not going to give up on this – I would like to stress – to destroy this proven form of organization in Austria. A form of organization that gives millions of Austrians their confidence and an organization that has never abused this trust in history. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must assume that we are preparing a novel of the Savings Act, as promised, but we will certainly not change the Savings Act on Call. I would like to add: no matter where this call comes from. The matter will not be better, even if tax advantages in this area are still required. High house! I would like to say something about the position of the works councils in the AVZ. Some find it quite outrageous that it is not possible, as it is now so beautiful to sell the slaves with the plantation. I would like to stress: For me, the strong position of the works councils is exactly what makes the difference between a mere shareholder-value culture and the concept of the Stake-holder-society, as Tony Blair developed in England. This means that the people concerned can decide on their fate. It's completely right: The people concerned are not only the employees, the persons concerned are of course also the depositors, the parties concerned are borrowers, such as Mr Prinzhorn, the affected are shareholders, to whose confidence the company has to make daily efforts. But – and I would like to stress this – the workers concerned are particularly concerned about this. And I am glad that these employees have an effective opportunity to co-determination and that they do not depend on alibisms, where, so to speak, only a few employees are involved. The most effective protection especially for ensuring the Austrian characteristics of the institute is precisely this participation of the works councils. It is therefore very strange and remarkable if the "F" which is currently trying to make itself strong for the workforce, in its request itself, requires that these workers' rights be amended and abolished by an ad hoc amendment to the Savings Act. This is exactly the inconsistency we will not let you go through! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also need to see very clearly what this is all about. In a editorial in today's "Press" it is written: As bitter as it may be for many: The last hour of all beautiful dreams of co-determination has come. And that's where we see what's at the heart of the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The emphasis is on "last hour"!]] And in this sense, the debate we are having here is quite a social-political debate, and unlike other groups in this House, we Social Democrats do not need to hide our social-political position. We are in favour of a performance-oriented market economy, but it must be a market economy that serves people, people as citizens, people as consumers, especially people, men and women who work in businesses and who create value-added in these companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are not willing to sacrifice these people of an ideology that is increasingly obsolete and harmful in Europe today. If today's debate has highlighted these socio-political differences very clearly, then it has in itself had an unnecessary and even harmful session, I believe, a positive effect. In this sense, I would also like to thank the FPÖ for their urgent request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5025	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5047	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would not be honest if I would not admit, at the beginning of my remarks, that I am very irritated by what has become known in the last few days. I am annoyed by the facts that have come to be known. I am also irritated by the statements of the acting persons. I am also annoyed, ladies and gentlemen, because money is a very sensitive product and because trust, seriosity, credibility in the money and credit industries have a tremendous psychological significance and what has happened in the last few days is not suitable to consolidate this confidence in our money and credit system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should therefore do everything together very quickly to end this intolerable state that the largest bank in the country has negative headlines every day in the national and international press. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Chancellor! They are one of the active persons. I would like to state openly: I believe that you have said the truth here in Parliament today, because everything else would be political suicide. I believe that, although I have to say honestly, it is increasingly difficult for us to believe certain things that have been said in recent days. It falls to me as one who, for almost four years, was the State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance – and I give it to the public – hard to believe – but I still believe it – that despite § 20 Banking Law, despite bank supervision, all this was not known despite the state commissioner. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] But I respect your statement, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger will come a little later. I have great respect for his function and for his person. But his statement in the APA issue of the 3rd edition. In June, that at the time of the conclusion of the party agreement on the CA sale, there was no point in saying that the AVZ should also sell shares, is in stark contradiction with point 1 of this political agreement, in which it is clear that the AVZ's voting rights in bank Austria shares should be reduced to less than 25 percent over the next five years, through capital increases, exchange of shares or the sale of shares. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Or!]] That is, the sale was a topic, ladies and gentlemen. As far as Mr Häupl is concerned, I must say honestly: I think he was fully informed. He is also the highest representative of the AVZ. Only if he is in the "Rathaus Correspondence" of the 14th century. The Austrian solution continues to be strongly emphasized and underlined by January, and I am irritated by it – and even very badly irritated. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr. Mayor Häupl, as the head representative of the AVZ, also carries a municipal council decision in Vienna, knowing that in fact only the owner, the AVZ itself, can make such a decision, then I am also irritated and do not make a murderer's pit from my heart. The fourth person to act is Dr. Randa. Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't believe it myself, and I still got the documents today in the early days. It was not possible for me yesterday evening, when I was informed, to imagine that the reference to WestLB's pre-purchasing right is actually contained in the English version, but that the German version does not contain a single sentence on it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's unheard of!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a scandal!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what the Princehorn said!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There the Dolus is visible!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A scandal!]] [[Further violent calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going as far as the first speaker Prinzhorn, who meant it was a sharp violation of the Stock Exchange Act, but I admit, I too have heard from experts that it would be a violation of the Stock Exchange Act. That will be still to be examined, ladies and gentlemen. We must follow the truth, all the more so than there is a personal identity between the Director-General and the President of the Stock Exchange. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I want him to step back!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: When does he finally step back?]] I am also annoyed that party agreements are signed, including by Dr. Randa, and I read in the employee magazine of Bank Austria, he does not at least think that the AVZ should sell shares of Bank Austria. – I admit, I am irritated by these behaviors! Ladies and gentlemen! Although Dr. Randa has repeatedly spoken about the Austrian solution, knowing – he knew it, he admitted – that this pre-purchasing right exists, then it is also annoying. Ladies and gentlemen! I can now say in full responsibility: We from the People's Party have been repeatedly asked by citizens over the last few days and hours, for all that has been known: Are you staying in the government? – I say to you: We remain in this government – but not out of loyalty to SPÖ, but out of responsibility to our country! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: After servas!]] For exodus from the government would mean a severe government crisis and would de facto bring with it an inregibility of the country. We don't want that. For us, Austria comes first, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The ÖVP does not trust anything!]] I would, however, very much appeal to those who act to do three things in the interests of the reputation of our country, because headlines or comments in respected newspapers such as "In Vienna the Balkans starts" are not good for our country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Your help is that the Balkans are possible here!]] I appeal to those acting to keep the largest bank of the country out of the daily negative headlines by three measures: Firstly, the rapid sale of the 19 percent German share of Bank Austria. Privatization is the only guarantee of depoliticization, ladies and gentlemen. This has always represented the People's Party: The only guarantee of depoliticization is privatisation. Secondly, I ask the Lord Mayor Häupl decided to enter into negotiations with the WestLB in order to change this pre-purchasing right or to relinquish this pre-purchasing right. [[Abg. Aumayr: This is a wish for the Christian child!]] Thirdly, from this point of view, I call on Mr Häupl to hold talks with the Works Council. Because if I read in the "Small Newspaper"/Graz that the works councillor Fuhrmann explains that a sale of AVZ shares would be a nonsense, and they will do everything to prevent that, then, I believe, there is an urgent need for action. – Mr Bundeskanzler, there is a need for action!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5279	There is now a speech by Mr Dr. Haselsteiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5306	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use the few minutes that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are still staying in plenary to address a few words to you. I regret that you have noted in your statement that the opposition – in this case through a special session – is a priority affecting the economic interests of our country. [[Interference of the Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate.]] Federal Chancellor! They have said that if we do not debate this objectively, this is scandalous and scandalous, and we would only harm economic interests. But I would like to draw your attention to this: The thing itself is the scandal! That such a thing can happen, that such a thing can be unpunished in the newspaper, is the scandal in it. It is not the one who shows this which wants to debate it that scandalizes it, but the one who allows it through political action or fortitudes. And this goes to your address, Lord Chancellor, and to the one of the Lord stupid. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the Freemans.]] Mr Novotny, too, comes out here and says: A scandal, for God's sake, a sensitive commodity! – These are all beautiful words, ladies and gentlemen, but you have brought this coalition into this state for ten years and even longer. You're responsible for the scandal and not us as an opposition! – There is no use in crying; [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You agreed!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You don't understand anyway, Mr Puttinger. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, say that 17 points are to be implemented. But you should know that is not true. Of the 17 points, some are no longer in the debate at all, for example, the prohibition of mergers, the maintenance of the two brands and, and so on. They would not make sense either, as it was clear from the outset that this 17-point programme is nothing but an eye-catching for political failure. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, you did it. The economic content, the meaning of these 17 points are not given or only to a very modest extent. Remember that! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you, Mr Bundeskanzler, believe that WestLB's pre-purchasing right is not a sale – there is a pre-purchasing right through a shareholder agreement, and the Federal Chancellor has said that it is not a sale – then I must say: [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There is no pre-purchasing right!]] That's true as long as it's not perceived, it's not a sale either. Only, of course, is the question justified: Why is it done if you don't want to see it? And then, of course, it would be a sale in your mind. A liberal does not view the sale as so terrible, because we believe that capital does not have red and white banderols, and because it does not help to shine up on the Vienna Stock Exchange: an undertaking in majority of Austrian property, although of course we appreciate the benefits of Austrian emotion in the decisions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] For us too, this is a nuisance. To say no, it's not a sale, it's just the untruth. [[Abg. Smoke-Kallat: But you have nevertheless agreed!]] Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! If you were dealing with a bit of economic issues, you would know why I agreed. [[Disadvantages at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My God! Sit on the high horse!]] I have, above all, agreed, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, because you have made a bad law and because I believe that even a bad law, when it is grown up in law, must be either executed or modernised. Since the Privatisation Act Your law was, take yourself at the nose and not the opposition! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Finanzminister and Mr Bundeskanzler! Mr Novotny said Mr Prinzhorn was sorry. He didn't regret me. But I have to say honestly: I am sorry, Mr Novotny, and I am very sorry too, Mr President, for defending this is a little difficult. What is it about? – Ladies and gentlemen! There are quite normal transactions in the banking business. It is grouped, a distribution policy is made, supervisory councils are elected, board members are appointed, and here, one concludes a shareholder contract, usually also called syndicate contract. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's right!]] Everything that would be perfectly normal. So why are they in this case a source of discussion? – Because it is not according to the rules of the economy, according to the will of an owner, but according to the will of political officials. This is unpleasant, ladies and gentlemen! A board order wouldn't be a topic. Please, who's interested in who's going to be on Siemens' board? This is then in the economic section of the newspapers, that is being discussed objectively, and then one will say more or less hopeful, but there is no scandal about it. Who is interested in who becomes Chairman of the Board of Directors in other large, important enterprises and industries, such as IBM, Apple or elsewhere? - No one. And that is right, ladies and gentlemen. Because behind this board order, behind this election of Supervisory Boards, behind this distribution policy, behind this merger and group policy stands a will of ownership, and if the owner does his will badly, unprofessionally, then he harms himself. Therefore, there is a guarantee whether good or bad – even wrong decisions are possible of course – but they then have the consequences they should have, and the owner suffers a damage. Of course, he will set heaven and hell in motion to avoid that. This is the objectivation by the will of the owner! In this case, there is no owner. There are officials who use the privileges of owners for themselves, and in addition, those who would not allow a correct, responsible owner at all, such privileges are used there. [[Call the ÖVP:No risk!]] But the consequence, the responsibility of a owner is not taken over, but rather, when it becomes brilliant: from into the sinking, new job or into the pension! That, ladies and gentlemen, makes this thing so dangerous. Mr Novotny! If here you are the only targeting way to establish this state of ownership, from the outset and with such a strong ideology, then, I must say, I am pleased to say that this one of your ideology is a liberal one, to oppose another ideology and to say: [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: These are the facts!]] 175 years of ownershipless savings banks are enough! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Why? Did they run badly?]] In 175 years we have experienced several revolutions, several wars, today we have 130 million seriously estimated capital in these savings banks, namely ownless capital. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Are they bad? Did they run badly?]] Professor Novotny! It would not be bad if you could guarantee me that this capital will be held in the responsibility of owners. But if it's functional, if it's councils, if it's financial councils, if it's AVZ and AVS, then, Professor Novotny, it's bad, and it's very bad. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] For me, Professor Nowotny, it is not a question of whether these functionals are red or black or whether they have a different color, it is the fact that there are functionalists who operate there, at a key point in the Austrian economy, from which we are all affected. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: One question, Mr. Deputies!]] Mr Prinzhorn is of course right: To stand here as an entrepreneur and say this is a certain risk. And that's sad, ladies and gentlemen, and that's not forward-looking either. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Did the savings banks run badly? That's the question! Everything else is ideology! The facts speak for the savings banks!]] Professor Novotny! The fact that you conclude secret contracts, the fact that you make important business decisions in party secretariats is bad, and that harms our economy. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] It is not true what you have said and what Mr Stumpfully says that the world is looking at us, and that is in the Financial Times, and the last days have shaken confidence. No, sir, that's not true! Have you not read the "Wallstreet Journal" of 1993, from 1994, not the "Financial Times" of 1982 and 1984? For years, you have been damaging the economic activities of Austria, especially in banking. You know that! Not the last days, but the proporz and mismanagement in this area have permanently damaged the Austrian economy, the Austrian reputation, for many, many years. I'll bring you the copies, but you know all the articles anyway, probably you just forgot them again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] The only thing, Professor Novotny, what you can do is: You can abolish the ownership state of important economic areas, in particular from the banking sector, by a revision of the Sparkassen Act, not only as regards liability, but also, above all, as regards property rights, and then you will achieve ownership and ownership and not functional will. For us Liberals, that is no question!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5575	Deputies Mag. Stadler spoke about business treatment. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5596	Mr President. § 13 para. 3 of our Rules of Procedure provide that the President is entitled to interrupt the meeting of the National Council at any time for an indefinite or fixed period of time. We see yesterday's "socialist correspondence" that the Federal Chancellor today wants to take part in the Party Congress of the Socialist Parties in Malmö as the party chairman of the SPÖ. Apparently he is already on his way out of the house to participate in this convention. Mr President. I call on you, in particular, after Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to speak boldly, in which a deep crisis of confidence between the two parties of government became apparent, to interrupt the meeting until the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is able to attend the meeting again. At the same time, I appeal to the already on the way out of the House to attend the meeting so that we can continue it. I think it unbearable that, in this situation, the Federal Chancellor is taking part in a party congress and not at a meeting of the Austrian Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5629	Mr Kostelka has reported on business treatment. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5651	Mr President. I am completely new to the fact that Mr Stadler and the Group of the Party of European Socialists are deeply concerned about the relationship of trust within the government coalition. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a debate!]] Not least, this is new because we talked about this question, namely the presence of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, yesterday morning in the presidency. In this presidential meeting, I stated to Mr Stadler that Mr Bundeskanzler was present only until 12 o'clock because of a very important foreign appointment and that his representation by the Federal Minister for Finance will then take place. Yesterday, Mr Stadler was satisfied with this, and he even explicitly accepted it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yesterday, stupid has not yet spoken!]] He doesn't like it anymore today. That is why I would call it nothing but a medial gag.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5718	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like briefly, so that the whole House is informed, to refer to what has been decided in the President-in-Office for today. We have made several special arrangements, I would like to say, in agreement with the President, in the way that the urgent procedure is called at 10.30 a.m.. It is expressly in the protocol: without prejudice. And it was also informed that the Federal Chancellor must leave the house at 12 o'clock due to a meeting with the EU Council President in Malmö. This has been the content of the discussion. Mr Stadler! I think we are on the bottom of this consensus, and I do not want to take a party here at all, but allow me to make the following comment: A suspected crisis of confidence between two political groups has so far not been a reason to interrupt a meeting. Please, you have spoken again.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5745	Mr President. However, since the crisis of confidence between the two government parties is evident to the entire Austrian public, including the representatives of the media present, I would ask you to discuss the question of the presence of the Federal Chancellor, the head of this government, which is obviously in a crisis of confidence, again in a presidential way, because yesterday's state of discussion was not this crisis of confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5784	Mr Mag. Stadler! First of all, I would like to say: The Federal Chancellor has not left the house permanently yet, but told me that he is leaving the plenary for only a short time. Secondly, I should like to make the following statement because of my 22-year membership of this House: I have experienced many situations here that could also be qualified as a crisis of trust. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's where the Federal Chancellor went to a party assembly?]] That's what we've experienced. This is nothing new, Mr Stadler. However, we have never made this the occasion of a partsession. I do not comply with your request for adjournment of the sitting, but believe that we should discuss this issue in the next presidential term. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Gar so vainly won't be the game anymore!]] The next word is spoken by Dr Alexander Van der Bellenvor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5830	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The strange thing seems to me that the Social Democrats in particular are on top of it, making a bank close to a SP bank, and they don't even notice it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's her already!]] Or perhaps even worse: to make a bank close to a state bank, and they don't even notice it. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Van der Bellen! We told you all this in January, and you didn't go with us!]] - I'll come back to that. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You and the Liberals were the helpers of the close - up state!]] It was not that way, Mr Khol, because I remember very well that at the time – around Christmas – the main discussion was whether the CA was sold to a SP-near institute or, in order to express it more strongly, to a preliminary organisation of the SPÖ. [[Call the ÖVP:And why?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You didn't listen stupidly!]] Now it is also in your hands – admittedly also increasingly with us. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We talked about it!]] We have also talked about it, that is true, but the real focus of the problem is only now open. And I believe that you too will only notice now or believe who is a precursor organization: the bank is a precursor organisation of the SPÖ or rather vice versa, with the SPÖ uncoordinated behind what is decided in Bank Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Neither!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's where the cock weaves with the dog! You're right!]] The SP of the municipality of Vienna and the SP at the federal level do not seem to know exactly what to do with each other. In contrast to what the opposition often criticizes, I can only say: Austria's economy must be healthy and healthy, so to speak, if it does not have such a policy! As is stated in the public, what is happening here, I do not need to read to you. I like the headlines, for example, in the newspaper "Die Presse" with "smart moral image" and "unsauntable acting". A literal quote from a comment: "When Austria's political prominence goes to privatization, then domestic cabaret sizes look abundantly old." However, this criticism applies not only to the SPÖ, but also to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. Because it is not only about the fact that Mayor Häupl of the SPÖ is very strongly promoting an Austrian solution for Bank Austria, knowing that the West German Landesbank has a pre-purchasing right, but of course it is also about the fact that the ÖVP tip – "as always" I almost have to say – did not know anything. There is a so-called black in the savings bank council of the AVZ that could have informed them. The decision on the right of pre-purchasing was unanimously adopted at that time. The colleague in question will probably have been present. And even if he didn't inform her, she didn't prevent anyone from asking colleagues Klinger – so, I think, he's the name – what's so to speak in the basement of Bank Austria. The commentator in the "Press" means this very well by the fact that this ÖVP story does not lack a certain comedian refinery. On the other hand, it was not only around Christmas at that time and the case in January, but these information deficits continue unabated to this day. The Minister of Economic Affairs says that the entire settlement should be reversed, the CA sale should be reversed. I mean, that's absurd! That's what the Minister of Economic Affairs says. Should perhaps the GiroCredit now be sold back to Bank Austria, and Lacina must remain Director-General of the GiroCredit for his lifetime? In the meantime, a lot has happened. You can't put that in the room so easily. I would like to say something to Mr Khol. It's true, history has had a certain dynamic. But still: The Greens and I have said here from this panel before Christmas, the sale of CA to Bank Austria makes a bank policy sense, at least for various reasons make more sense than the sale to the former consortium, but it raises the question of the owner structure of Bank Austria itself. In what way I'm beating my chest – mea culpa – it's that we didn't stress this point energeticly enough in the following weeks and months. I did not know about this right of pre-purchasing either. The exact structure of the AVZ was not known to me at the time, but now we all know that. If at that time we had known all these details about the AVZ, namely the pre-purchasing rights, the syndicate contracts and the social contracts, we should have said: First, this problem has to be solved, then the sale of CA can go over stage. [[Call to the ÖVP: Whoever comes too late punishes the story!]] The central problem of Bank Austria is – I think Mr Hazelsteiner is an opinion with me in this regard or I with him; Sorry! – that Bank Austria apparently does not at present belong to anyone at all – apart from a detail, and that is what I call the "bonai" owner I am going to talk to – because the AVZ is out of ownership, because the municipality of Vienna may not exercise liability but, in principle, may not exercise ownership rights, because it does not have the majority in the Sparkassenrat, can be blocked there at any time and de facto is blocked by the three works councils of Bank Austria. [[Call to the ÖVP:The Randa belongs to it!]] Apart from that, the Board of Management of Bank Austria, an important institution of the AVZ, is not identical to the Board of Management of the AVZ. This is, I believe, the core problem of this largest bank in Austria. I already admit that the problem of ownership is greater – all savings banks are affected by this problem, but it is a difference whether I am talking about the savings bank, we say Gramatneususidl – I do not know if there is one there – or whether I am talking about the largest bank in Austria by far. The SP, especially the SP of the municipality of Vienna, has managed over the years, especially since 1991, since the merger, to do something out of this institution, in which it actually has and has had a personal policy influence, which has de facto escaped its influence. And you haven't noticed that, I think. Director-General Randa and the Works Council together, in coalition, can do with you what you want, against their voting rights in the AVZ is nothing at all. And this has nothing to do with workers' rights, Mr Ewald Novotny, at all. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: However, as it turns out!]] Apart from that, CA employees are not at all represented in this body. I also have the impression that the German Chancellor and his current Finance Minister have removed things over time. When, as I believe, on an Asia trip with Director-General Randa, he discussed and made up the sale of CA to Bank Austria in July 1996, Director-General Randa apparently did not inform him of the real role of the West German Landesbank, but I think that would have been his duty. In addition: The role of Consul Professor Jud throughout CA sales has now been documented. According to the then Minister of Finance, the House of Himmelpfortgasse was not informed of the dual role of Professor Jud. Who laid an egg here, so to speak? The then Finance Minister was not informed about the pre-purchasing right, and I wonder: Didn't the SPÖ notice what game is being played with her? From the point of view of these facts, I think: The priorities are wrong at the moment! On this point I may differ from the opinion of Mr Haselsteiner. The only owner – "Bonsai" property, very small – that still exists at Bank Austria, which is clearly dominated by an comprehensible share law, is the federal government or post-holding. And I would see the priority in solving the AVZ problem first and only then getting rid of the federal shares, especially because the capital market in Austria will anyway be over-needed with the task of simultaneously absorbing the federal shares, regulating the capital increases of Bank Austria and the exchange offer and so on. This is a hopeless exaggeration anyway, especially of the Vienna Stock Exchange Square. My speaking time is about to change, so I am just taking a position on one point that Mr Novotny has mentioned, namely the question of workers' rights. The right to veto the three works councils in the AVZ as well-acquired workers' rights is something I absolutely cannot support. In reality, this has been simply and simply the SPÖ's attempt to secure itself forever against any political contradictions in the composition of the Vienna municipal council. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6033	There is a speech by the honourable Member Mag. Trattner before. They themselves have announced a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6055	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr President. It is already known to me that in the presidency the agreement was made that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany can hold an urgent foreign appointment and that a deal should be made by the Minister of Finance, but at that time it was not yet foreseeable that the Chancellor here in the House would say the untruth in dealing with a urgent question – that is not unheard of – and that Mr Partisobmen or Clubommen will quietly withdraw to a crisis meeting due to the speech of my colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's unheard of!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's not true!]] [[Abg. May. Main: We have been able to read it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: They sit together: Fischer, Kostelka...!]] - They're all sitting together now. Please interrupt the session, Mr President, because it is obviously a crisis! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It cannot be assumed that the Chancellor here in the House decrees the untruth and simply goes over to the agenda. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's not true! Even by the repetition it won't be right!]] [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Repeating an untruth doesn't make them better!]] Prove it! What considerations, Mr Novotny, are there now on the so-called bulwark agreement with the WestLB? [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: There's no gag agreement!]] There are two considerations: an economic and a political one. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: There's no gag agreement!]] – Mr Oberlehrer, you can speak later. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Mr. Pupil! I think that's better!]] I will now tell you the following: Economic considerations will have been as follows: When I grant a shareholder with 10 percent rights of a majority shareholder, fresh money will flow to Bank Austria. Bank Austria probably needed this money. [[Abg. May. Stadler: At the CA purchase!]] If you look at the situation of the Bank Austria or CA over the last five years, you can see that each one had to write down a loan note of 10 billion schilling, that, on the other hand, the tax performance on the part of Bank Austria was grossly 5.5 billion schilling, but with net only 1.8 billion shilling, because it has received subsidies in other ways, in the same way also the CA. This is not an invention of the liberals, but the head of the government debt service, Professor Frisch, announced this last time. It is clear from this that it was urgently necessary to bring in a foreign partner, to give preference in the form of a gag agreement, so that money can be brought in so as to be able to re-economicize. These are the real backgrounds! – A part of the CA purchase is of course financed, but for the other part of the CA purchase, Mr. Finanzminister, Mr. Dr. Randa travels through America and tries to raise money so that the CA deal can be financed at all. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That means that the WestLB has financed the CA purchase!]] At this point the house was also misinformed. There has been no funding to carry out the CA purchase. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The political interest was, of course, also fragile. After the 1994 National Council elections, you have seen exactly where the journey can go. In 1994, the SPÖ crashed during the National Council elections. They knew that there were elections in Vienna in 1996. They wanted to secure political power, and you secured it by bringing a red partner and giving him the right to buy further shares; a pre-purchasing right of a minority shareholder with 10 percent! If you say today – like Mr Chancellor – that it is internationally customary to secure a pre-purchasing right, I must tell you: This is usual internationally if you have a majority of shares of 50 or 60 percent. Then a pre-purchasing right to additional shares is granted, but not a minority shareholder, who can then exceed the remaining 90 percent. There can only be a political background for this and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How did you secure yourself in the municipality of Vienna when you were still a Financial City Councillor? – There was a change in the AVZ regarding the statutes of savings banks. In the Sparkassen Act, there is a very specific view of what the posting in the Sparkassenrat looks like. A third are municipal councils and two thirds are sent there by the municipal council. In the AVZ you have arranged this differently. You said: The Vienna election did not go well, it could be very dangerous politically, who knows if we still have the majority, there could be something to go by, we must turn it around, and that is what we are about to decide on a change in the statute in the AVC. As a result, you have decided to change your statutes, in the form that the works councils are no longer sent by the municipal council of the municipality of Vienna as savings bank council members to the AVZ, but that the three works council members are put in there by Bank Austria, which gives you political assurance that, if the majority is lost in Vienna, you will be able to do and do what you want with the help of the three works councils of Bank Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] - That's the perfide! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Nowotny said the "SPÖ slaves"!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Absurd!]] I say something to you, Minister of Finance: They decided to chair this in the AVZ with Mayor Häupl. They also sat in there and decided to do so with the agreement of the ÖVP member in the Sparkassenrat, Dr. Klinger – you don't have to pretend you didn't know anything about it – with the opposition of the liberal Sparkassenrat member. And you have not informed the Vienna municipal council or let it vote on this procedure, aware that the municipality of Vienna assumes the responsibility for the bank-austria business, but on the other hand the Bank Austria can determine what is to happen with the taxpayers of Vienna's municipal citizens. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Clear breach of justice!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6308	Mr Heindl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6330	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The SPÖ slaves!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Absurd! That's a quote you don't understand!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That was a promise!]] I really don't feel like a slave, my colleague. Whatever the theme of today's session, the result is clear to me now – to say it carefully –: Benefits for the largest financial institution in our country, benefits for the financial centre of Vienna and Austria cannot be recognized by this. Even more clearly, this was said by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the second largest Austrian institute. He speaks of an unprofessional debate, of the easy-to-use handling of things, and thinks – I quote literally; he has, I am deeply convinced, right: Nor do I think of the current discussion about a neighboring institution as soon as possible to place all the shares and to push devils out into the capital market. There is no doubt that this path will be followed, but as Mr Hazelsteiner has already said – and I agree with him – these are quite normal processes. It is actually a normal process if the board of directors looks to achieve the best possible yield, because if he did not, he already belonged away if he only thought about it. That was what the President meant, and I mean it. In this light the discussion is also to be held. Mr Trattner! Also a normal process and a topic that you can discuss – but I think you should not do it in the public – is... – moment! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Go, stop!]] Listen what I want to say! You don't know what I want to say. – Trattner is thinking about the background that may have been the cause of the pre-purchasing right. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: The majority wanted you!]] Obviously, a board of directors thinks something. A thought might be – perhaps there are others too, but for me this could be one: Those who observe the development of banks towards the east must see which banks establish themselves in Moscow, in Nizhni Novgorod, in Kiev or in other cities of the former COMECON countries. And if you look at who does that, you can imagine that there are large banking institutions that say that they are going together at this stage. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Socialist Bank!]] My God, my colleague, you're going to get rid of this thought. A normal bank board does not think of the party, but rather of bringing home a decent result. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals: A normal one!]] Mr Trattner! At least you can't agree to the WestLB that it brings good results. So this could have been a thought, too, that I say: If I do a strategic cooperation with a low level of participation, I secure myself in some way! These are certainly considerations that are possible. But from the outset only to say that it was quite simply an internal party business, I cannot follow this argument. But it's legitimate to think differently. Ladies and gentlemen! The whole current discussion certainly creates the opposite of what is supposed to be achieved – and I am deeply convinced of that – of a speedy sale of federal shares as well as a reduction in the shares of the AVZ. More: A discussion of this kind, which takes very little care of facts, often negates economic self-evidentness and gives little understanding of the functioning of capital markets, harms our country, the economy of our country and our Republic, for one would like to sell the shares as much as possible. What do I mean by facts? – Mr Prinzhorn – you have to talk about this topic when you have a discussion about banks – has meant that the control bank is superfluous – I understood it so that it was one of the closures – and would work better if you could do the whole thing about the stock market. Mr Prinzhorn! I appreciate you as an entrepreneur, but I agree that I also understand a bit of this business. I can tell you: I can't follow your mind! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] You know that just as I do. How does international export financing work? – There are three models: Either it does the state – that, I think, you don't want it; I don't want it either – or there are banks behind it – that's our situation – or there are – see Hermes in Germany – the insurance companies behind it. There's no fourth model. One can discuss whether the current structure of shareholders is the ideal. That's another subject you can discuss. But one can certainly not be a target: that I say, I will abolish the control bank. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Haselsteiner said that our economy must be healthy. She's healthy. What the economy in our country has created in 25 or 30 years is a success story, and part of this success story – you will agree, ladies and gentlemen – I am convinced that you yourself are part of it, Mr Prinzhorn – is the good development of the export economy. And part of the operation of the export industry, which – you know as well as I know – depends on every second job in industry and on which every third job as a whole depends, is our export financing system, and this works through the control bank. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Then we don't need a control bank!]] [[Further calls.]] Do we want to talk about the core of a banking discussion or about salaries? – We can do that too. But I am not part of that group that is discussing whether 2 million or 3 million Schilling Executive Boardsgage are too many or not enough. It is about the system – which some colleagues in the liberals have correctly pointed out – and we can talk about it very well. Of course, there can be different views – I repeat – but in one we have to agree, and you know that just as we do: that this system of export financing for risk cover not only works but also is recognized. I'd ask you: Do not put 100 or 102 billion schilling into space. You know just as we – if you look at the last audit bank report, then you can see it – that 34 or 35 billion schillings have already flown back, that in the context of the "Paris Club" the entire re-debt action is running, that the Republic is not actually a payer per balance. These are minimum amounts, because when I learn that 1 400 billion schilling has been financed over the past 25 years, I must say: These are huge numbers. With these funds, 70 thousand jobs have been secured and are continuously secured. So I ask you not to question what is internationally recognized. Only recently, in April 1997, the OECD peer review clearly presented this Austrian financing process as a market window, as a model. If we are often told that we are being criticized internationally, then we should also recognize that such an institution is indeed giving us a good witness. Let us not deny here – and this is not a problem for the liberals and none of the Social Democrats, but it is an Austrian problem – that we have a good system. What does not mean is that if one comes there or there, one does not have to change a bit again, that it is no longer modern. You have to talk about it. But just questioning and saying, we'll do it, because when it goes over the stock exchange, it's better, it's not enough. You can't really say that, Mr. Prinzhorn. I am also convinced that you do not really want it. Before you do something, you should consider how to do it better. On the whole topic of export financing, control banking position, ownership or shareholder structure, I can only demand: Please, make suggestions on how to make it better! I personally don't know a better system at the moment. If you have a proposal, I am willing to discuss it. Only: Let us be sure that this system has so far been successful in making use of our economy and that the Republic has ultimately cost little money. And this is positive, that must be said on this occasion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6483	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6504	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It's strange with what hypocrisy the opposition is producing today – I'm still coming back to it, Mr. Hazelsteiner! – and complains about how dramatic things have developed. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: We are not holy, that can only be a Christian!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: For example, you are particularly hypocritical!]] I should like to remind you of that special meeting in the January part-session, in which the honourable Member, Haselsteiner, clearly said yes to the question of whether he agrees to a bank under the influence of the party or state. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Mr Dr. Haider meant that the purchase of the CA by Bank Austria is quite a fantasy. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is really hypocrisy!]] Mr Oellinger said at the time that these are industrial policy perspectives. Mrs Petrovic has said that this is a promising and interesting business. So please don't pretend you're surprised today. We said it back then, we warned about it. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is hypocrisy to a great extent: decide something different than you say there!]] Mr Haselsteiner! Please, be careful, I'll talk to you. Mr. Hazelsteiner! We warned you at the time that we were the only ones who pointed out the dangers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition... – Are you ready? [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner towards ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't stop, it's your speaking time!]] It was you, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, who had just perfected the fullness of Mr Randa's power, a power fill which, I admit, is quite remarkable. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Who is the subject of the Convention?]] There are now lists that you all know that Mr Randa is sitting in 20 Supervisory Boards; it is a power fill which has been dramatically demonstrated by the Praschak case. If one leaves a little in Mr Praschak's estate, one can see that the name Randa always occurs. Mr. Randa was also one of those who signed the agreement before the January session; the one Mr. Randa, who also wrote in the staff magazine "Teamwork" in January: The AVZ is a self-owned asset. The AVZ does not have the slightest intention to sell shares of the bank as CEO. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] It was the same Mr Randa who also knew that this could not happen because, in the meantime, there was an agreement with the Works Council that this could prevent any sale, and it was the same Mr Randa who also brought it to light that Professor Dr. Jud was at the same time an expert on the Ministry of Finance and Director of Bank Austria. If this Dr. Randa is also President of the Austrian Stock Exchange Chamber at the same time, this story will give a considerable light to this situation. I am therefore saying: The biggest asset a bank has is the trust of customers and the confidence of the public. And this confidence is no longer given in the case of Director-General Dr. Randa. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Randa served as a puppet player in the Republic. To limit the damage to the bank and to the public, I mean: Randa should take the hat! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have always been for the withdrawal of politics from the economy and the banking landscape. [[Call the Freeman:E-E-Economie!]] We have always been against a concentration of power, and we do not need to change our mind, just as the opposition today tries the spagate. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] We do not need to change our opinion, we have always represented this opinion, we have always gone this straight path, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Hypo!]] But I admit: The things you complain and weep so massively today were only possible because there was a filtration of politics and economy. And Mr. Mayor Häupl still has access to the AVZ, Mr. Mayor Häupl can still switch and act as he is. And that's why I ask him: Mr. Mayor! Give up this influence, finally dissolve the AVZ to the full! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] It is unbearable that in December and January, the safeguarding of an Austrian solution has always been discussed. Where is this Austrian solution today against the background of the pre-purchasing right of a large German bank? Where is this Austrian solution? I ask those responsible to: Start negotiations to refrain from this pre-purchasing right in order to allow for a wide distribution of the shares. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why did you agree to the ÖVP?]] Our partyobmann Wolfgang Schüssel took place on 14 May. Janen said: It will be up to the new owner to prove that there is no political influence. And today I say from this point of view: The events and the findings of the last days and weeks have not made this evidence easier. That is why, or perhaps only because of this coalition, we bear responsibility for this country and because we have agreed to continue to assume this responsibility in the Coalition Agreement and in the Government Declaration. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Cost what it wants!]] But we urge the coalition partner: Please note that neither a party can hold a bank or a bank! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6728	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6749	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is something like a culture of the market economy in developed market economies. These are undoubtedly an employment culture, a culture of participation, a stock exchange culture, a culture, contracts, and also a culture of control. Obviously this is not a developed market economy in Austria. We do not understand the employment culture by putting out more or less of the labour constitution law – quite specifically in that area in which politics has influence – because the Labour Constitution Act states that a third of the voting rights on the Supervisory Board are due to employees. In the AVZ area, there are only eight decision-makers and three of them are appointed by the Works Council. This means that Bank Austria's employees have a clear blockade position for all major decisions of the owner's representative. Do small investors in Austria, who have participated in Bank Austria, know about these structures? Was that revealed? – This is the stock market culture that I come to speak to at once. It is a question of people investing their money in a company they obviously were not informed of how their decision-making structures are running. The stock market culture in Austria is a sad one. It actually exists only on the verge. If the head of the largest bank is at the same time the head of the stock exchange when the commercial banks and investment banks work together under one roof when inside trading is on the agenda, do you wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, that there is no risk capital in Austria? You wonder that there are a lot of too few people who are willing to pump capital into the economy via the stock market? And that in these structures, where you are concerned only with your party political influence, but not with making decisions on matters and really setting up a venture capital market in Austria. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] There is also something like a culture of participation. If the WestLB participates in Bank Austria with 10 percent of the voting rights, this is no problem at all. That's perfectly all right. Only what happened de facto and, in turn, no one was told in terms of the stock market culture – the small investors did not know that – because it syndicates with the AVZ and thus has far more than 50 percent of the voting rights, does it ultimately mean that the WestLB has a very decisive, absolute influence on the Austrian bank. So what do you want? – You can say you want an Austrian solution or you want a European solution. Both you can say, but you can't say you want an Austrian solution, and then you'll determine a decisive influence of WestLB on this syndication in Bank Austria. This is really not in line with the culture of a developed market economy. Actually, you should be ashamed because it came out clearly: You have the party political influence, you place the power of your institutions, your party where you can, as social democrats, where the ÖVP can, make it the same, before the decision of the matter. That's the problem! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Drinkl asked for Mr Randa's head today. I'll tell you, Dr. Dr. Drinkl: You won't solve anything. You can turn a snake off a head, but it will grow the next as long as you do not change the system in which you are involved in this division of power between red and black. You are involved everywhere in your party-political power, and this party-political power is putting you ahead of the case-law! That's what I'm gonna do to you. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: These are the words of Haselsteiner! Those are his words!]] [[Abg. Tichy Writer: Be careful with the word "system"!]] There is also something like a contract culture. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You want a Randa bank!]] If Mr Dr. Stummvoll lets the House know that in the German version of the Treaty... [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] If Mr. Dr. stupidly lets you know the High House... – Too bad he's not a black man, otherwise you'd be glad, will you? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And from "Austria" becomes "Randa-Reich", and all banks are "Randa-Banken"? And "Austria" becomes "Randa-Reich"? Where are we?- Oh, my God!]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! On the culture of the contract: Dr. Stummvoll has informed the House today that there are two contracts, one in German and one in English. However, the type of participation of WestLB in the Treaty in English is different from that in German – that is such an immense breach of trust, an enormous breach of contract culture in the market economy, that I am deeply affected by it and actually wonder what consequences it will have. Ladies and gentlemen! That's fraud! In the German version of the Treaty, to communicate a content other than that of the English version, fraud is imposed. We Liberals will examine very carefully the legal consequences of this. This must be contrary to the Stock Exchange Act at least in terms of publication. But there is also a control culture; a control culture, which obviously does not exist either, since the head of the AVZ himself appoints himself as head of the Bank Austria and then at the same time controls himself as the owner's representative. Where are we, please? – Did you know from the coalition parties – and both of you sit in a boat – because you didn’t understand what market economy was? – This is a rule mechanism for which we have to create political frameworks, but which one must let work, into which one cannot always rule with party decisions. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] This ruling by party decisions will enable you to know the property you still have in production resources. That's why you don't get rid of it despite all the sores; all the gays don't use anything. Repeatingly Say You're the same thing: We're going to privatize, we're gonna get out of there! – You do not, however, in truth. You do it on the verge, you do it with 49 percent, you seem to do it, but you don't give up: the influence – we politicians, we party politicians, we want to talk! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and SPÖ! Please note: It's not your country. It's not yours. You have to serve this country; that would be your task. [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: Whatever we want to do!]] They hide behind the stock law de jure. You hide behind all the laws you decide to do when you object to the award of jobs – of course de jure. De facto is enough to wink the eye, de facto the brief discussion in the couloirs is sufficient, de facto the group meetings of supervisory councils are sufficient. In what culturally developed market economy is there any other way that party political groups will be able to sit one hour before the Supervisory Board meetings, all of which makes no sense in the actual Supervisory Board meeting, which will then be attended by the small shareholders, the employees, if they have not already been in the Group meetings? What culture is that?- Oh, my God! What is the custom of today’s special meeting?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Now the hypocrisy really begins to bow. We have a new 5-point plan in which complete public procurement, in particular publications, standard contracts, establishing marketable remunerations, third-party comparison, complete disclosure of all incomes are included. – You have already decided that in 1982! That's exactly the same thing you decided at the time! For how stupid do you sell the Austrians? ==References== In October 1982, a law was passed in the Kreisky government with exactly these contents here in the House. – After we sell the whole thing again. – Language of hypocrisy? Is it perhaps his own drink? – They decide today exactly the same and sell it to the Austrian population as a new achievement; what was decided here in the House in 1982! This is hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen! [[Further appeal to the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Still – I don't know how long – the whole country is going through a division of power spheres, with no decisions on matters. It is about party political positions; whether in the sports roof associations, whether in the automobile clubs, whether in the housing companies, whether in the construction companies belonging to the different banks, or in the banks itself, it turns out that politics in Austria is far too deeply interwoven in the field of the economy, where it has nothing to look for in the end. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What do you mean?]] Then, if oppositional Members reveal this here in the House and thank God in a special session to talk about it, yell: Hold the thief! and demand the rest of the cemetery in order not to endanger the reputation of this Republic and its banks and economics. They're threatening her.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6918	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6939	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There has once been a time when, in social democracy, other ideas have been linked to banking policy. This was in the inter-war period, in accordance with the concept of Rudolf Hilferding, about banks, about a banking policy, about national banks to want and be able to influence the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! It is sad to see what has become of this concept. In the Second Republic, only one variant of this Hilferding concept was left, which looked like this: The Social Democratic Party and the ÖVP divide the nationalised sector and thus banks for their party interests. The banks are divided according to the proportion, and the main issue is the provision of their own clients and, of course, the related policy of power. Now we are experiencing a new variant of this modified concept. This has nothing more to do with Hilferding, it has nothing to do with social-democratic economic policy, but it only has something more to do with a power gap. Now we are at that stage in which the party no longer wants to serve its interests in the banks, but now the Bank of the Party is using itself to enforce its interests in politics. As a very powerful man in Austria, Randa is no longer controlled by politics, and that is the problem we should talk about. In this respect, I also disagree with Mr Peter. I think the policy has to accept this problem, it has not withdrawn from the economy, but it must try to lay down rules for the economy. It is not a question of political withdrawal. If someone wants to withdraw, it's party politics. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we are experiencing here is the downfall of a party policy that has largely led the Austrian economy to the ruin in some areas over the last decades. If I look at certain pleas which were responsible for certain banks under particular party political influence, it should be noted that the fact that the parties sent their stakeholders in was obviously the result of the fact that, in part, rites have made the bank's policy. These have allowed the corresponding industrial enterprises to operate as they wanted, thus leading them to the edge of the ruin or to the ruin. As examples, only Tautner, Klimatechnik, Landesbank are mentioned. There are other examples for this, where obviously no one from those responsible in the banks that had quite different interests with their institutions has been bothered by what the industrial companies in the industry with which one has been associated have actually done. It was important and beneficial that individual princes could then produce and say: Look, we've created jobs, and you only owe it to the fact that we're making such a good policy with these banks and with these industrial companies. At the end of the day, however, it has been shown that no one in the banks has assumed the responsibility for doing so, none of the parties who have served these banks and who have served them, but only the Austrian people who have been used to eliminate debts. And that's the real scandal! This is the amalgamation of a policy which has largely withdrawn, which nevertheless still has power over its parties in the banks, while at the same time allowing powerful managers of these banks to rule into politics and largely to take part in the political events in Austria, also to lead parties to the flaws and at the same time to exercise an eminent influence not only on these parties but also on the policies as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we Greens have come to know that it would be quite possible and imaginable to operate through a bank such as the Bank of Austria's industrial policy. Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I You have already read correctly, but if you continue to read in my speech I gave at the time, then you will see that I also said: I call for this concept! However, I could not see in these speeches here in Parliament that one of the representatives of the Social Democratic Party would have even made an approach to show us how an industrial policy of this bank conglomerate Bank Austria – CA should look. We are still missing this today, and this was obviously not at the heart of the interest of this deal, which would have been the only interesting thing, namely to actually try to design an industrial policy – I am no longer talking about economic policy in general – and what remained in public influence to use to develop an industrial policy in this country. But this obviously doesn't interest anyone who's run this deal. The real problem is: It's about very different interests. It is a question of strengthening the power of parties and managers in these banks – and this has already been clearly presented. I come back to the statements made by Mr Novotny, who said that it was remarkable how social democracy represents the interests of employees in Bank Austria. I mean, it's really remarkable! It is remarkable in that the Bank Austria is the only company in Austria to which social democracy is obviously able to boast today and wants to represent the interests of the employees. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! Mr Novotny! I would have liked you to have been so powerful about the interests of the employees or the CA's works council at that time when this deal was ahead of us. This would also have been an opportunity to show that you not only have Bank Austria in mind, but that what applies to Bank Austria and its employees applies equally to every other bank. This applies, of course, especially to the CA, which is before a takeover, where there have been legitimate concerns and fears. At the time, however, no one came from the Social Democrats to use the CA's works councils or employees in such a way that their rights of co-determination would have been required. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It's about something completely different: They use the co-determination rights of the Bank Austria Works Councils to make a cheap party-political game! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Because in this construction you can be sure of one: Even if the political conditions in Vienna change, even though the five representatives who send the council to the AVZ should change a bit Party-politically, these three works councils are among you, who still make you party-politically the wall. It is not about the interests of the workforce as a whole, it is about the interests of a party that is trying to ensure its influence. That was also the only reason why you have seized the WestLB. They have, of course, hoped to ensure the best and longest possible party political influence within this structure. If you were already of the opinion that an Austrian bank alone is not viable – and this was obviously the reason why you looked abroad at it at all; or that could have been the reason – then you should have held this debate differently. We are still of the opinion that it would make sense to operate an Austrian solution. We still believe that public ownership of a bank is not crucial to whether a bank works well or badly. We are of the opinion, however, that the construction, the process that you have chosen has served exclusively party political and party-tactic interests, and that you have thus established a banking conglomerate in which individual managers achieve enormous - not only banking policy but also economic power in Austria far from any political control. If you agree, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, we take note of this, but we are not at all! We also call for political control over the Bank of Austria, which in the past wanted to withdraw from the control of the Court of Auditors. We also call for political control of this Parliament! You, ladies and gentlemen, are responsible for what you have done with Bank Austria and what in future will be developed or – unfortunately – will not be developed by Bank Austria: an industrial policy, an economic policy option for this country. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7038	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schreiner. – Deputies! You have sought a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the overall speaking time for your club is 9 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7059	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister for Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! There is the basic principle of a decent merchant in economic life – and the banks are undoubtedly among the businesses. How would you describe a merchant who wants to sell a property and to the neighbor on the left an option, an offer, and to the neighbor on the right a few months later make the same offer, even though he can only sell the property once? - Certainly not as a decent merchant. It's a rag that does something like that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can only sell a product once. Something else undermines confidence in the economy. And especially money management is something so sensitive that undermined trust does even more damage. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister for Finance! They were at the 12th in question. January 1997 in this negotiating committee. In the so-called 17 points you will find your signature again – Edlinger and Häupl negotiated as representatives of SPÖ. Federal Minister! I can't imagine you signed point 1 with good conscience at the time, without passing on any information: The shares of voting rights of the AVZ and the Wiener Holding at Bank Austria are reduced to 25 percent within five years, exchange of shares or capital increase or sale – although you knew very well that you offered the same thing to a foreign bank a few months or just a year before! Federal Minister! How's it going? You are the Federal Minister for Finance, since we would believe that you also belong to the category of ordinary merchant. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or do you want 10,000 financial officials who are taxing Austrian citizens and, in carrying out auditing, ensure that someone behaves like a decent merchant: Our boss is not a decent merchant!? – That is really impossible! That's a question you really have to ask yourself. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also about what the German Chancellor – unfortunately he has already escaped from the plenary session – said to us today in the reply to the question to point 17: A reprocessing of the purchase would be carried out if all of this would not be done within four weeks. – This back-up and the total of 17 points are now missing the business base. The purchase is to be settled back. But the Federal Chancellor says that this is so difficult. Although the government parties did not recognize this difficulty in dealing with the problem of repatriation on the 14th day of the year, they did not recognize the difficulty of repatriation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion for a resolution here in plenary. It seems that the Federal Chancellor said once again the untruth. In fact, under paragraph 17, he found that a reprocessing would be possible, he had practically spread some sand into the eyes of the ÖVP. Now he said from the government bank that this settlement was legally difficult and did not come to bear. Federal Minister for Finance! Now on the last point, on the question of mastery. 10.4 percent of the shares are issued in a mastery agreement, which is in itself legally a flaw of a minority to a majority. It will determine how profit distributions are to take place and strategic partnerships will be established. Federal Minister for Finance! The distribution of profits in share law is a majority decision. No minority shareholder, no shareholder from the public, even if he had 10 percent, could agree to the main shareholder in the distribution of profits. It is more the opposite of the case, it is usually at the expense of the small shareholder the distribution of profits in such a way that he gets little and the main shareholders more or remains more profit in the company. That is the reality, and that is this mastery agreement, which is certainly to be rejected in this context, when one sees that one wants to privatize this bank. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to make another motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister for Finance! Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! If you want to enforce political hygiene and economic sense, then vote President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7149	He's the one who's just got the deputies Mag. Schreiner's motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported by business regulations and is included in the negotiations. Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Merchant. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Your speaking time is 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7174	Mr President. Minister! First of all, on the comments made by Mr Drinkl. I don't know if he's here now. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There he is!]] It seems to me that it is relatively absurd to talk to the honourable Member, without interruption of depoliticization, and in the same breath to call for the withdrawal of Director-General Randa here from Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You should have asked!]] That does not fit in at all, and that is really absurd. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The real substance of this request is the question: Is it now automatic or necessary that Bank Austria should sell the further shares of the AVZ abroad – or not? Finally, that is the substance of the question. The Federal Chancellor has given a very clear answer. It is not necessary for the shares of the AVZ to go abroad for several reasons: First of all, all the decisions, all the evangelisms of the municipality of Vienna, as well as here in Parliament, are against. Secondly, the reduction of the AVZ shares is also possible without the benefit of the pre-purchasing right of the West German Landesbank, namely, as always intended, by capital increase and by the exchange of shares. There is therefore no contradiction at all here, and it will not be that the shares of the AVZ in the Bank of Austria are moving abroad and that this foreign influence will be strengthened against the present state. We would reject that too. [[Abg. Gaugg: To this contract!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another point seems to me to be important. If you do not agree with the order in board functions, with the mode, with the modality, then you should try to change this mode, this order type. One approach is the five points mentioned by the Federal Chancellor. But it would be completely wrong and absurd now to sell all the shares of public companies so that you no longer have to order the board of directors at all. This is a completely absurd procedure and can only be supported by the fact that public property is not wanted in principle. However, we want this public property because of the strategic ownership function of the public sector and because we know that strategic ownership is in many cases necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: And power for the party!]] We have discussed this last time, Mr Haselsteiner. That's just where we're different. We do not believe that this privatisation is in principle necessary, and we do not believe that public property is in principle bad. That's just how we're different! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Until the "consumer"! That's exactly the same!]] Deputies! It is always done as if public property were an Austrian unicum, especially by honourable Member Peter. Here again, we must say: It's not like that. I have already been able to say several times from this point of view that in other highly developed economies, which are very, very competitive, there is a high degree of public ownership. I have already listed them: the Bavarian Landesbank, the West German Landesbank, the Norddeutsche Landesbank. These are all institutions that are two to three times as large as BA and CA and are essentially public-owned. To a certain extent, important industrial groups, such as the Volkswagen Group and the Continental Group, are in the public sphere. I have mentioned several times that this was painful in the case of Semperit. Therefore, let us not oppose public property in principle and do not pretend that this would be absolutely impossible in other developed economies abroad. It's not like that. Next point: We often act as if the public property held by the federal government or the municipality of Vienna would be in principle bad, especially by Mr Drinkl and Mr Collegiate. But if public property is in the hands of the state of Lower Austria, Upper Austria or Styria, then it suddenly becomes a "good" public property. Ladies and gentlemen! This approach should also change. It is in Upper Austria, Lower Austria and also in Styria that it is decided that countries in the mortgage institutions, for example, want to retain the decisive influence. [[Abg. May. Peter: This is wrong!]] This is also what the ÖVP governments in these countries want. Please, do not measure with two measurements! It is also stated that energy supply companies, the OKAs, the EVNs and so on, are essentially to remain in public ownership. This is what the EIA in the countries also wants. Don't measure with two measurements! I would therefore like to say to you: What is right in Lower Austria, Upper Austria and Styria, this must ultimately also be true for Vienna and the Federation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A third point concerning privatisation: Unfortunately, we very often avoid talking about whether individual areas of the public sector could be managed much better and more efficiently by private individuals. I am referring to areas which are not subdivided and specifically to road administrations in Lower Austria or Upper Austria. I myself made a request in the Lower Austrian Landtag to withdraw the road administration and to carry it out step by step of privatisation. The Austrian construction industry would be very pleased with an additional field of activity. – But there you measure with two dimensions: These applications, for example in Lower Austria, are permanently rejected and rejected by the ÖVP. Once again to the Members of Parliament who have been so irritated today, Drinkl and stupid: Do not be completely irritated, but try to be objective and to meet your own demands in Lower Austria, Upper Austria and Styria as well as in other federal states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My appeal is therefore: Let's solve the problem where it can be solved, but let's not throw the child out with the bath. If we do not agree with the modality of the board of directors, then we are changing this procedure without at the same time disposing and selling all public property. That would be the wrong way! I think we are going to be economic policy – not party politics! – In the future, the influence associated with public property will still be bitterly necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7307	The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7328	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Freedom Party has used today's urgent request to present itself as a political alternative to the banking issue for a time. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Right!]] Repeatedly try It gives you the impression that every proportional thought is strange to you that you do not know political influence and do not want or know the business of friends. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to believe you, if I had not experienced the liberal reality of the exercise of power myself. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You've made this speech five times!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is an old speech, an ancient one!]] It is not my speech old, but the facts remain the old. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I was a clubman in a coalition with the liberals in Carinthia, so I am a contemporary witness. President Lincoln said: If you want to recognize someone, give him power. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, yes!]] In Carinthia, the Freedom Party had and has power. There you can also be recognized by your actions. Mr Mag. Stadler! There you are not dependent on your verbal statements, but there you are measurable! In Carinthia, it is also possible to understand the political influence of FPÖ throughout the banking sector, everywhere! [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's old, this speech! She's got a beard like that! It's older than you soon! It's been held five times.]] In the Raiffeisen Association, the Freedom Party is represented by a high-ranking mandate, namely in the person of a federal council. Mr Mag. Stadler! I ask you: What does a Federal Council have to do in the leadership of the Raiffeisen Association? FPÖ is also present in the Sparkassen area by its trustees. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Teacher! You've held this lecture five times! Let yourself come up with something new!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] However, it is most evident that the freedom of choice in the banking sector in the Landesbank, the Hypo Carinthia, is noticeable. The first thing that led Dr. Haider to be the head of the state was to send a liberal national council to the hypo's leadership, one that has no banking experience. [[Abg. Gaugg: That's not true!]] You wonder what this man lost in the leadership of the hypo! But this is not a political influence for you, it is not a step forward! It is also striking that a former liberal countryman is still sitting on the Supervisory Board of Hypo Carinthia. [[Abg. Müller: Who?]] It is also not a friendly business for you, if the then head of state Haider has said to me personally as a group chairman of the Council of State Schools: My five teachers need you to accommodate, otherwise stick to the red. [[Call the SPÖ:Ha, ha!]] Of these five, all are housed to one. Today, you are negotiating how I take away the "Small Newspaper" – I quote: "Cow trade between SP and FP" – to accommodate the fifth man as well. Your method is – I can tell you –: Red out, blue in! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Aha!]] The Freedom Party is also willing to use trustees who can only be used outside the laws. Let me give you an example: Under Haider as head of government, a district captain was employed contrary to the service regulations. It is probably a coincidence that this man later became representative of the Freeman in the Carinthian Landtag. In Vienna too, it is no different. The same Federal Party observer of the FPÖ, who even today has a mistrust against the Federal Chancellor, still has on the 12th. January 1997 in the "ZiB 2" literally said – I quote the contribution –: Introduction of the ORF: For FPÖ chief Jörg Haider, it is clear that an agreement between red and black is to be recorded on the Blues' success account. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Teacher! You're in the wrong movie!]] Then Haider literally: You're fighting for a bank sale for months. There must come the liberals because the ÖVP was in the highest excitement and says: Now we have to save what is still to be saved with the liberals in Parliament. Now we have dictated a few conditions, and I have to say, if I look at the outcome of the negotiations now, what they brought together after eleven hours, I can only say: All due respect, gentlemen of Red and Black, you have thoroughly negotiated our demands. I am very pleased with the outcome of the negotiations. They took over our demands. – It is likely that any critical observer can read that the FPÖ under Haider cannot be a political alternative. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Haider is about power! If you read carefully the quotations in the statement of reasons for the urgent request, you can see that they speak a clear language. Wear for the quotations They themselves are not responsible for the content, but for the selection. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The ÖVP must be bad together if it depends on speakers like you!]] You should listen, then you'd know what's meant here. It belongs to the system removed! Mr Stadler, there have already been such sounds in Austria! [[Abg. May. Stadler: First, you pulled the Socialists over the table, then you send the Wormitzer out!]] As a Member of Parliament, I, Wurmitzer, continue to think: that is enough room for the FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Tell your clubman when it comes to a CA debate, you should not send the Wormitzer! Then don't play carnival!]] So it's not about the good of Austria, it's about your power. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is unpleasant to him, Stadler!]] [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] That's the point that connects you as a party to Director Randa. The FPÖ was fully informed in November. We are, I say clearly, indignant and bitter about the behaviour of Director Randa and all his colleagues. I hope that these people are aware of the damage they have caused to the reputation of Austria and its banking industry. For us, the People's Party, we now have to follow the consequences that my colleague Dr. stupidly formulated here. Director Randa now wants to turn his back on and blame the policy for losing confidence in his bank. We have no understanding of Mr. Randa's complaints. I quote from today's press release: "The purpose of Randa's proposal is to deal with the supervisory board of Bank Austria and the AVZ's savings bank council next week with the definition of the legal basis, if the Bank Austria continues to be harmed by incorrect public opinions." In my opinion, Dr. Randa, if he wants to keep the Bank Austria and the banking industry in Austria from further damage, should immediately take the hat.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7575	Mr Gaugg referred to an actual correction. 2 minutes of time limit. – Start with the presentation of the facts you want to correct. You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7599	Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurmitzer, who was then Klubobmann in the Kärntner Landtag, claimed that Dr. Haider had appointed a member of the Management Board of the Freedom Party to the Landes Mortghekenbank through his function. This statement is wrong. However, I personally have to add one more thing. Mr. Wurmitzer, I regret every minute I come here with your party... [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7629	Deputies! This did not have the character of a correction. [[Abg. Leikam: That's characterless!]] Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has spoken. – You have a speaking time of 5 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I have reported in time for an actual correction!]] - I'll call you later. I didn't see that. Please, Mrs Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7675	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the Greens have always expressed a positive attitude towards public equity rights. In our opinion, it does not matter as much as who owns it, but how this property is handled. It is here that we see opportunities and opportunities for public property rights, namely where the market fails, and where general objectives are concerned, for example in the transport sector, also about environmental objectives. But if we now find that public ownership rights are not used to achieve social or environmental objectives, we also see a Party-political abuse of power. In the course of the debate on Bank Austria, our social spokesperson Karl Ollinger called for business concepts a few months ago. We wanted to know how the public hand deals with its share rights, what plans are there for the CA Group and what happens to its employees in the banking sector. We do not know all these concepts and the public. There are probably no such concepts at all. But there are very likely party-political interests, which are even represented with brutality. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If I have been told by my predecessor that, according to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, there must be no political will to acquire the rights of foreign owners, I ask you in every way: What are these pre-purchasing rights for? If you don't want her, why keep this back door open anyway? Or is it not a back door at all, but the intended purpose? Or is the fact that the SPÖ, because you've gotten a little too hot for the whole "brown," thinks: Perhaps it has failed to exercise the shares rights de facto itself, but via the sister party SPD!? – There are questions about questions. On the occasion of the debate on Bank Austria, it is a sad pattern of the great coalition that governs this country. It is not true that those who apply for a special meeting, or those who are now asking critical questions, are harming the country and its banking sector, but they are the ones who have tolerated these maltreatments all the time. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Apple beck.]] What questions about the political leadership of this country are now raised by this business and these processes alone? – We apparently have a Federal Chancellor, who was sometime informed about the details of this deal, but cannot remember. We have a Vice-Chancellor, who at the time, in principle, had great concerns and was actually opposed, but could not tell himself about the details of this business. Although his party friends are in the decision-making bodies, he has not been able to come to the information or properly understand and evaluate it. We have – in another subject – a head of state, a president who cannot or does not want to clarify the backgrounds of the state affair, namely the Kurdish murder. I therefore note that the three top executive functions of the state are persons who have either been tricked and today have opportunistic memory gaps, suffer from temporary attacks of Alzheimer's disease, or who are completely overwhelmed at all, and who do not understand information that is accessible to them in principle. . All three options are, in my opinion, a medium-sized disaster for this country. At the same time, however, you prevent control rights from being exercised in Parliament. I'll tell you: If so. Their kind of compromise is to preserve the power with trickery, memory gaps or "I don't know what is being played", then the future of this coalition is probably a short and sad one.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7748	Mr Krüger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7772	Mr Wurmitzer has rightly claimed that a country candidate nominated by the FPÖ has violated his duties by being district chief and countryman in one person. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He didn't say that!]] Yeah, sure. [[Abg. Arbitrator: No, no, he didn't say that!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I am correct in saying that the exact opposite was the case, that the head of state of Carinthia has committed an infringement of law by putting him out of service. It was only by a complaint to the Constitutional Court that Member of the Court of First Instance was able to reach a hearty conclusion that he was allowed to return to service. He thus helped the right to break through.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7834	Another actual correction is sought by Mr Ing. Reichhold. Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7858	Mr President. High house! Mr Wurmitzer claimed that during the time Dr. Haider was the head of the state, a member of the board of the liberals would have been sent to the board of directors of the Hypobank. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That has already been corrected!]] No, that has not been corrected. This claim is completely incorrect. In the time of the head of state Dr. Haider, two board members were appointed. The one is our knowledge according to the member of the VP-Economics Federation, the second is a member of the Socialist Party. Further: The two members of the board were sent on the basis of a law, which was also passed in the Carinthian Landtag with the voice of the then clubman, namely Mr Wurmitzer.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7904	The next speaker in the debate is Mr Haigermoser. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. The speaking time available to you is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7925	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The coalition tumbles from one crisis to another, and the Federal Chancellor flees to his comrades in Sweden – and this is also perceiving false facts. It was claimed that this was an international and cross-party meeting. – So you said the untruth in the Presidential. Ladies and gentlemen! Stupid is "irritated". He used that word several times. – Mr President, I would like to thank you for your support. I think another word would be appropriate. The Austrian population is, in fact, outraged by the incident in the banking sector. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you claimed "Austria first" would be almost Your dogma, which you wanted to follow, then we tell you, the kitt of the coalition is not the concern for Austria, but the fear of the posts. That's the facts! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Drinkl! In short to your remarks and to those of Wurmitzer: Your role was not easy to admit. That's where the tires squeak! The "Hold the Thief" method was the worst you could use. Just so on, Wurmitzer! You're our best elector. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Wurmitzer's distraction maneuvers have once again been misguided. I could resist some sayings, according to the motto: "Take me somewhere, I'll be needed everywhere." Or – the ÖVP written in the main book –: "Last year we were still facing a abyss. This year we are already a big step forward." [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This debate, the results of your speeches, we will carry to the Austrians in the living rooms. Kaufmann's misconception of the ownership of the public hand with the presumption that this property belongs to a party is also a custom of this socialist coalition government. Ladies and gentlemen! We'll get it to the point: The debate has proved that the current Federal Socialist Chancellor is no longer portable for the Republic. That is why we shall make a corresponding motion for censure. We are eager to see how the Austrian People's Party will act in the natural vote. [[Abg. Aumayr: Irritated they will be!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, the improper attempt was made to give the impression that the messenger was once again to blame, the opposition that brings this evil message into the House is to blame for all the occurrences, so now you want to quell this messenger. You won't succeed, because in this causa "banks" the citizen is behind us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Rarely as never before has a journalist in an article in the "Salzburger Nachrichten", that is, Steininger, hit the nail on his head by quoting the unbearable mutual extensibility of the coalitionaries. [[Abg. Dispensers: Rare who never before!]] Just one sentence from it: "How trustworthy is the leading man of the government in which my party is also involved?" This was in the wake of Mrs. Rauch-Kallat's statement. "Whether the Federal Chancellor lies to his coalition partner or not lies, cannot be a question of faith or non-belief, but must or should be a question of knowledge." We want to know, ladies and gentlemen, don't believe! We want to know what everything has done, how history has come about. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore make the following request by Mrs Jörg Haider, Mag. Johann Ewald Stadler according to § 55 para. 1 Act of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council in conjunction with Rule 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. 1 B-VG 1920, as amended by 1929, submitted in the course of the examination of the urgent request concerning postage chess at the expense of taxpayers The National Council wants to decide: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Listen, Wurmitzer! "The Federal Chancellor shall be appointed in accordance with Article 74. 1 B-VG 1920, as amended in 1929, by express resolution fails to trust." Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, because German Chancellor climate has not told the truth to the public and to this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why this Federal Chancellor from Parliament is to withdraw confidence from the representatives of the citizens of this country. Chancellor Viktor Klima knew nothing – once again the hare – nothing about the red banking pyramid game. The ex-traffic minister, ex-finance minister and still-fed Chancellor – hopefully – will go into history by washing his hands in innocence. For power. Climate – please direct this to Sweden, Mr. Finanzminister – was already talking to Pontius Pilate. We want to see different ways of dealing with this past. If the banking chaos is not so sad, ladies and gentlemen, you have to laugh at it, but you have damaged the economic location of Austria, you have done it with your process, that we are currently only in the location study at the same time only in rank 41. Is that what's to blame for the opposition? Are we, the liberals, to blame for this decline in Austria's economic location? [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I, ladies and gentlemen, say with a last sentence: They have provided the public with a bear service from the socialist coalition with ÖVP remnant. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] They've damaged the economic location. They are to blame if other jobs in this country are destroyed!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8056	Mr Wurmitzer spoke on a personal reply. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you the floor to do so. However, it should be noted that you can only rely on the statement of facts, which was the subject of the actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8081	Mr President. High house! Mr Reichhold has actually corrected my statement that a liberal national councillor had been established in the leadership of the Hypo Carinthia. [[Abg. Aumayr: Where does the personal response remain?]] Faced with this correction I now call the name: It was Dkfm. Heinz Hochsteiner, Member of the National Council of FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8138	Mr Reichhold! You have once again referred to an actual correction. However, I would draw your attention to the fact that the correction cannot refer to the current response. Just to make it clear. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8163	Mr President. High house! I believe that Mr Wurmitzer has just corrected himself, but I would like to make a real correction in another context. He referred to two aspects in the Causa Traussnig: one has already corrected my colleague Krüger; I would like to correct the second matter, Mr President. Mr Wurmitzer said in his speech that district captain Traussnig had been ordered against existing service regulations. That's wrong. Mr. district captain Traussnig was appointed as the first Austrian official of a district authority on the basis of an objectiveion law, which was also decided by the voice of Wurmitzers in the Carinthian Landtag.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8199	President. — The debate is closed. Please, Mr Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8232	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have, of course, listened to the debate with great attention, most of it here in the hall, and I would just like to correct a few things, because I believe that this is necessary to round off the image in the public – if there may still be someone who has followed the debate from the beginning to the end – because some things have got a little bit confused. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the government bank!]] First of all, it must be assumed that many things between 1990 and 1996 were simply made up of decisions made in a row. I therefore think it is very important to note once that 1990 is the year of banking... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That you lost four consecutive elections!]] [[Further calls.]] Perhaps I will sometime get used to the fact that there are people who just talk and don't hear, but I'm talking to Parliament, and you don't have to listen. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It is your duty to listen to Parliament!]] You don't have to listen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, I have listened to you in all discipline, although I did not really like it very easily. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It is your obligation to listen to Parliament!]] I take my commitment very seriously, and I am also very serious about my work. But you are constantly trying to disturb me in order to put your not quite precise statements in a more accurate light. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are not the President of Parliament!]] Well, I still have to come back to it, even if some Members do not like it. In 1990, I did not tell a secret at all about the banking operation of the central savings bank of the city of Vienna in a stock company. All the decisions in this regard and those which have been registered here today in part by some Members with great amazement were taken unanimously in both the Sparkassenrat and the municipal councils of the city of Vienna in 1990. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now it is against the ÖVP! Colleagues, listen!]] In other words, the fact that there are three works councils in the central savings bank's share management of eight members was taken in 1990 with the votes of the Social Democrats, the People's Party and the Freedom Party in the Vienna Municipal Council. [[Numerous Oh- and Ah-Rufe at SPÖ.]] As a result of this measure, the AVZ originally held 100 percent of the shares, by which a year later merger with the Landesbank reduced this share to just over 50 percent and is now at almost 40 percent due to various capital increases and other measures. In this context, I would like to say a sentence with regard to the comment made by Mr Ollinger. I really regret that in this House, without being an ex-official defender of three works councils, it is claimed that Bank Austria's works councils are more precise about the interests of the bank and not the interests of the workforce: Ollinger said that "the interests of the Social Democratic Party before those of the employees" - are in mind. I believe that, in particular, respect for the difficult task of a works council must be rejected, as I believe, unqualified submission. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If I remember correctly, today's debate has been started under the aspect of postage chess. I would like to inform you that in 1991 municipal council elections took place in Vienna, and at that time the Freedom Party became the second strongest party in Vienna. [[Call to the liberals: Thank God!]] At the first meeting, which was held by the then clubman of the Freedom Party in Vienna with representatives of the majority party, a Supervisory Board was required at the airport and one in the equity management of the Central Savings Bank. – This is actually the "depoliticization" if those can do as they want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the government bank!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I do not wish to criticize this at first, but only because of the fact that I had a different function until a few months ago, I would like to raise the knowledge of this House to those who conform to the truth. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now comes the next truth!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In 1995 the next step, which plays a major role today, namely the fact that the WestLB is increased by capital... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why does the climate know nothing about it?]] Why are you so impatient, honourable Member? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I'm not impatient, but you're talking about it!]] I know I can't polemize here, that's not equal opportunities, but I've seen it today as if a few were talking under the speaker's seat, and I'm really surprised. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] But I apologize if you have accepted my statement as a polemic one. [[Abg. Mag Stadler: Against the coalition partner!]] Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! Again: In 1995 a very crucial step was taken, which is therefore very important, because otherwise the conclusions are not quite clear. WestLB acquired about 10 percent of Bank Austria's shares on the way to capital increase. A shareholder contract was also concluded, which was quoted. In this context, I deeply regret that – but this is probably the case in a Parliament – one argues very harshly. It is true that there is a partnership agreement with two main areas. First of all, he postulates a pre-purchasing right, which is an alternative, because – and you have to know that – the WestLB has not paid in nearly 5 billion schillings to Bank Austria because it has a caritative vein but from an economic-strategic consideration of a cooperation between a large German bank and the largest Austrian bank, especially with regard to the processing of the new markets in the East. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Bank Austria buys the WestLB!]] Here is a cooperation agreement which, of course, because the bank could neglect this strategy, contains a pre-purchasing right, a cooperation agreement which is in fact within what you have verbally expressed here – use of balance sheet gains, changes in statutes, measures to acquire capital, capital reduction, resolution of transactions – by saying that is a mastery agreement. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Bank Austria buys the WestLB!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: With one word a mastery contract!]] Mr. Dr. Haider! I'm very sorry, I assume you know the shareholder contract, otherwise you couldn't have quoted it. You have forgotten point 1.4, because you argue the gag that it has agreed to unanimity. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Whoever forgets something here is the Federal Chancellor!]] However, point 1.4 clearly states that: "If no agreement is reached in accordance with paragraphs 1.1 to 1.3 above, the shareholders shall be free to exercise their respective rights of shareholders." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So what?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This clearly states that the argumentation of the ruling treaty is a schimar, an arbitrary and exaggerated and also false interpretation of this cooperation agreement. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Go!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: This cooperation and partnership agreement has been concluded temporarily. That too has a reason. The fact that the Bank of Austria may sell more shares to another competitor, as well as a safeguard mechanism of the AVZ, was not only a safeguard mechanism necessary in the WestLB's view, in the event that the Bank of Austria may sell its shares to another competitor within a very short period of time. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Stirring! Really touching!]] Something perfectly normal in such a partnership contract, please. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Christkind and Christmas at the same time!]] Those who recognize themselves in this area know that such contracts are common. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What about the Vienna City Table? Does the Vienna City Council have the same rights?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Finish the fairy tale hour, Minister!]] And something else, my very dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: Not only the pre-purchasing right, but also the whole cooperation ends with 21. ==References== The real point we are dealing with now is that we are being held – or the improper attempt is being made to do so – in the coalition government there are problems. In fact, it is – and this is the natural thing in a coalition government – that there are problems that one can discuss in order to come up with solutions. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's where we need to inform the coalition partner!]] Of course, their consideration is quite different. You want to drop something here and eventually polarize. You will not succeed, and I will end up saying why. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Why conclude a secret contract?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Minister, why did you agree to confidentiality?]] It's a private contract. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So the ÖVP doesn't know anything about it?]] I also need to talk about it. If you listen to me, I don't need that long. But I simply have to make this a little more detailed, because then my statements may not be so easily interpreted. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why did you agree to confidentiality when everything is so clear?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now we're coming to the next stage. I said that this cooperation agreement was signed in 1995. The question of the participation or purchase of the shares of CA by Bank Austria arose one year later. A year later! And in this contract, which has been signed, there is also within it, in what form, in what period of time and in what way the share management of the Central Parkassa withdraws in the participation of Bank Austria. And since this is five years, 25 percent, and seven years, 20 percent, I'll be able to open the bill for you. A further capital increase of Bank Austria, which is now taking place, will reduce the share of AVZ to less than 35 percent. The CA/BA exchange rate, if only half of the shareholders accept, will decrease the share of the AVZ to less than 30 percent, so that it will not be a problem at all to comply with this agreement without a sale alone by measures within five years in conformity with the contract, as agreed with the coalition partner. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: All palettes!]] If you continue to say that you have to be dissolved, you are reading with ease, because in the same point 17 you can't solve it, if anything happens, but if point 1, namely the obligation – and that's what it was about at the time – to avoid the organic obligation of the AVZ, point 1, the withdrawal of 25 and 20 percent, is not to be achieved, then – this is the case here – it is the following: "If a decision of the AVZ to point 1 is not taken within four weeks, the Contracting Parties shall agree to carry out a settlement." Share management has certainly taken these decisions – but to my greatest amazement, however, against the votes of the liberal member in the share management, no matter how much one would like to interpret them. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe, and in that respect I am right, that other points of this agreement and the motion for a resolution still stand out. I will therefore – and I emphasize that there will be the possibility of assessment and then the parliamentary debate – send the draft banking and savings banks legislation to the review shortly, where the issue of liability fee or release of liability, the question of savings banks, very probably also the question of mortgage institutions and, of course, the Raikas in the sense of equality in competition must be discussed. It will also be necessary to discuss the issue of equity management and, finally, the reduction of the period for consolidation of holdings to 1998. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is the threat!]] This draft law will be discussed in the next few days, and you will have the opportunity to discuss it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much, especially those who have taken note of it, for listening to me. In the end, I would just like to say the following:... – Because the Federal Chancellor is not a member of the Central Savings Bank. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why does the chancellor know nothing about it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But he was the Minister of Finance!]] He doesn't need to know, please. [[Lively contradiction and intercession with the liberals.]] No, no, no, No, no, no, Don't! [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's in the law, Minister, and he says he doesn't need to know!]] § 20 of the BWG states: "It is the intention to show". However, as long as there is no intention, it must not be indicated, and a contract is not intentional. [[lively ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] No one sells anything, so there is no intention. But if there is no intention, then you cannot show an unexistent intention either. Please be nice, not evil, but I must say this in all clarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the liberals.]] I'd like to say something: You have chosen a very weak argument for a mistrust against the Federal Chancellor! This Chancellor meets today in an important matter in connection with the Intergovernmental Conference with the Dutch Prime Minister, who is currently President of the EU. The fact that a political group meeting is also taking place in the evening is not the subject of his journey. - That's the first point. Secondly, My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals and Mr Klubobmann Dr. Haider! I know. It bothers you that we have a Federal Chancellor who is respected and respects the people. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He says the untruth! Who says the untruth in public!]] But it will remain because I will all contribute to solving the problems together with the coalition partner.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8779	Thank you, Minister of State. I would like to say once again that two motions for resolutions have been tabled: firstly, a request concerning the amendment of the Savings Act and, secondly, a motion for censure. Both are sufficiently supported and are for treatment in accordance with business rules. Mr Magistrate now has the power to make an actual correction. Trattner reported. Please, honourable Member. Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8809	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! In your statement, you claimed that the AVZ participation management had less than 40 percent shares in Bank Austria. That statement is only half right. While it is true that the share of capital is only 39.93 percent, the voting rights remain 45.15 percent. Furthermore, Mr. Finanzminister, the AVZ is involved in the Vienna Holding with a voting rights share – capital and voting rights – of 55.86 percent, and the main shareholder of the Wiener Holding is Bank Austria at 71 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8839	Ladies and gentlemen! It is already difficult enough to implement the Rules of Procedure on actual corrections. If you are still dealing with half-, quarter- and eight-pieces, this will make the situation much more difficult! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Seidinger: Give it a rest, Haider! Stop it!]] Mr Kier spoke next. The remaining time of your club is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8881	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall be brief, but I think it is necessary to make a very specific position of our group at the end of this debate. We have not been calmed by what has been said by the Federal Minister in particular. It was not enough to dissuade us from our support for the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I believe that today's debate on this matter has shown that there is still much to be discussed and explained so that, as a result, on the one hand, the right political conclusions can be drawn and on the other, what is undoubtedly necessary in this sector, namely a good, a functional and an economic order, so that we can achieve that in this area of party propaganda, the influence of party secretariats and the like disappear as soon as possible! However, it is not our group's concern to support a motion of censure against the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany here and today. We believe that such a request, if at all, can only be considered within the framework of a committee of inquiry. But – parallel – on the one hand, to seek investigation and investigation and on the other hand to anticipate the judgment, is not a position taken by a liberal party. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8913	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen! We now have two votes to vote. The vote has been taken each time. I ask you to take the seats. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schreiner and comrades concerning the amendment of the Savings Act. The request for a nominal vote has been put by 20 Members, so the vote must be carried out in this way. In short, I would like to remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the procedure: You have official polls in your store. The greys bear the term "yes", the pink-colored name "no". Only official votes are permitted for this election. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the votes in the votes cast. Those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schreiners are, throw in a "Yes" poll, who vote against, a "No" vote mark. I now ask Mrs Parfuss to start with the name call; she will later be replaced by Mrs Applebeck. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8987	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task are asked to carry out the polling of votes under the supervision of the experts. I am interrupting the meeting for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9020	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 155 votes were cast, 44 "Yes" votes and 111 "No" votes. The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Schreiner and comrades are therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Barmüller, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Gaugg, Count, Gredler, Grollitsch, Haider, Haigermoser, Hazelsteiner, Haupt, Hofmann; Young; Kier, Koller, Krüger; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Moser Hans Helmut, Motter; Nut trees; Of which: Peter, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schreiner, Schweitzer, Stadler; Trattner; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Anchober, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Donabauer; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Fekter, Feurstein, friend, Frieser, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Kampichler, Kaufmann, Khol, Kiermaier, Konrad, Koppler, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Kröll, Kukacka, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Niederwieser, Nowotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Ollinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Petrovic, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Riepl; Sauer, Schirder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stoisits, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9188	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. Haider and Mr Comrades on the failure of confidence in the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of this paragraph, it is necessary that the Court of First Instance should rule as follows: I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request was made by 20 Members. It is therefore necessary to have the name of the vote; I am therefore going to do so. I would remind you of President Neisser's statement on voting arrangements. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. The voting arrangements are known. I now ask Mrs Parfuss, the writer, to begin the call for name; Mrs. Abge-ordnette Applebeck will then replace her.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9229	The vote will end. The officials responsible for the House shall make the number of votes under the supervision of the authors. I am therefore interrupting the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9262	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 150 votes were cast, 35 "Yes" votes and 115 "No" votes. The motion of censure by Dr Haider and comrades is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members will be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. [[By way of derogation from the announcement of the voting behaviour by President Dr. Brauneder, the actual vote result is as follows: votes cast: 149; of which "Yes" votes: 35, "No" votes 114.]] With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Gaugg, Count, Grollitsch; Haider, Haigermoser, Head, Hofmann; Young; Koller, Krüger; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil; Nut trees; Of which: Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schreiner, Stadler, Trattner; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Anchober, Antoni, Auer, Barmüller, Bauer Rosemarie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Donabauer; Eder, Edler; Feurstein, friend, Frieser, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Gredler, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Kampichler, Kaufmann, Khol, Kier, Kiermaier, König, Konrad, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Kröll, Kukacka, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Hans Helmut, Moser Sonja, Motter, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Niederwieser, Nowotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Ollinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Petrovic, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Riepl; Sauer, Schaffenrath, Schirder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemminger, Seidinger, Sigl, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stoisits, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer. Short debate on the response to the question 2148/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9438	We are now entering a brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Justice with the order number 2148/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed; a reading by the writer is not sufficient. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the following provision of the Rules of Procedure: According to § 57a para. 1 shall not speak for more than 5 minutes, except for the founder. This is available for a maximum speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretarys shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Oellinger for his reasons. As I said, maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9469	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today a question to the case Dr. Heinrich Gross. It is about NS children's euthanasia and about Mr. Dr. Large in the murder of numerous children, infants and possibly other people in Vienna. Mr Dr. In 1950, Gross was sentenced to a criminal court in Austria, a popular court, and then sentenced to two years in prison because he was found guilty of helping with the killing of children under the Nazi euthanasia programme. In a hearing before the Supreme Court, this judgment was annulled by the first instance, because – I'm going to come back to it – it actually had numerous contradictions. As a result, Dr. Greatly freed. The Supreme Court has decided that this procedure should be re-rolled, but the procedure has never been re-opened because, in 1951, the public prosecutor found that there was no reason to resume the proceedings. In 1979, the start of a judicial dispute between Dr. Gross and Dr. Vogt, who were responsible for a leaflet on the part of the group "critical physicians", in which Dr. Majorly responsible for the killing of hundreds of children in the context of Nazi euthanasia programmes. Dr. This made him feel insulted in his honor and made an effort to win a process in his first instance. In the second instance – I will come back to it – the Oberlandesgericht has for the first time carried out its own evidence. This was not done in 1950. The Oberlandesgericht has raised facts and has come to the judgment that this accusation is against Dr. Largely on the part of Dr. Vogt, Dr. Great – this is a crucial point in this procedure – has repeatedly denied his responsibility over decades. So it came to the judgment, as Dr. Largely these lies could be proved by the appeal agency and he was actually involved in the killing of children. Nevertheless, the public prosecutor, according to this judgment of the Supreme Court, the Austrian judicial authorities did not find it worth the effort to bring a case against Dr. Great to open. In 1995, after new materials from old GDR archives, Dr. Large in terms of daylight, the documentation archive of the Austrian resistance has sent a case-law presentation to the public prosecutor's office. – However, the prosecutor's office has no grounds for prosecution of Dr. Great. There was an indication of the documentation archive in 1997. However, the prosecutor's office has seen no grounds for prosecution. And the Minister of Justice, who has been dealing with this matter, also through the question we are discussing today, but also through foreign media reports on it, which is not irrelevant in this context, has decided that this request by the public prosecutor should not be taken into account and that further surveys should be carried out. For this, Mr Justice Minister, I would like to thank you on behalf of the people concerned and the survivors. This is a first step, but it cannot be forgotten that we must also have a discussion of 40 years of failure by Austrian justice. That is what I shall now come to speak of. In fact, it has been developed in the written answer to the question under point 3, an argument which I consider to be, at least, strange and questionable. It is said there – in replay of the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office from 1995 – that: "Even more surveys would not be appropriate to disprove the accused's former denying responsibility." - Quote. This sentence, Minister of Justice, must explain to me. What does this mean for Austrian justice? A defendant who has for decades denied to have actually participated in this killing, who, as the interview in the "profile" shows, continues to claim to the media: I was just an employee! – say: I have only done my duty, and others have been responsible! – a defendant, a person who still does not take on his responsibility despite overwhelming facts, even in spite of the trial before the Supreme Court, is obviously not interested, in the opinion of the prosecutor, because he continues to deny and because these denials are still to be expected. – I guess it couldn't have been. – So much to point 1. Secondly, The last paragraph on question 3 states: "In addition to the considerations made by the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, the Federal Ministry of Justice considered the project of the prosecutor's authorities to be true because of the possible participation of Dr. Large in euthanasia proceedings in 1944 also to be judged by law in accordance with § 212 Reichsprüfsgesetzbuch and thus be delayed." Minister of Justice! Something must have happened. In Austria – thank God – the National Criminal Code does not apply, and it has never been true, even during the Nazi Justice. That's the point: The Austrian Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office says in 1995: We can see Dr. Greatly not condemning, in the case of Nazi law, this was only fatality – not a fatality from so-called low motives, but only a simple fatality with intent. Minister of Justice! You know, I think that even after 1938 in Austria, the Austrian criminal law passed, it was not collected by the Nazis. You also know, I suspect that the head of the institution Dr. Illing, who was sentenced to death after 1945, in 1946, was sentenced to death for drug murder, was sentenced to death on the basis of Austrian criminal legislation – and not because he violated Nazi law! Federal Minister! What is to be blamed for in the specific case of justice, as well as for your answer to the question, is the fact that you avoid the crucial questions that Austrian justice has for decades not found it worth the effort to examine and take responsibility for the fact that even in the time of the Nazi justice, the criminal law of that justice was not valid and, even if it had been so, on international issues, on questions of genocide – since we are already a step further – was not allowed to apply. This is a question of this kind. However, I do not just want to mention genocide, the fact that euthanasia has been developed and continued within the framework of a Holocaust programme, but it is a question of the judicial system repeatedly pointing out its responsibility over decades and at the same time this Dr. Large, which the judiciary has protected, has been an expert for this court for decades on behalf of this court. If you read the "NEWS" of today, you will find in it a terrifying story, according to what Mr. Dr. Big one he tormented at the time...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9544	Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9559	... before court and asked in a "page remark": Are there others alive? Minister of Justice! In the interests of those concerned, in the interests of the right in this country, I ask you, first of all the matter Dr. It is important to consider seriously, to seek medical and historical advice and, secondly, to clarify the right of those concerned and the survivors to break through and to clarify the role of justice in this matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9593	The Minister for Justice has been reported to speak. Please, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9614	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In just a few sentences, I am not going to be able to approach myself in the question so far, far-reaching legal considerations, which explain what legislation to apply to the time period. According to the documents I have received, in Austria, the §§ 211 and 212 Reichsprüfungsgesetzbuch are very likely to be provisionally valid for the period under review and were only valid with effect from 24 December. 6. ==References====External links==* Official website Justice has always assumed that the relevant provisions of the German Reich Criminal Code were in force at the time of the crime to be assessed here for deliberate murder, which differed between murder, § 211, and death penalty, § 212 Reichspunishment Code. According to § 211 – which is the key point for further explanations – murderers are those who, out of lust for murder, to satisfy sexual appetite, from greed or otherwise for low reasons of motivation, secretly or cruelly, or by common means, or in order to enable or conceal another crime kills a person. Suicide realizes who deliberately kills people without being murderers in the past sense. Therefore, according to the Austrian provisions on the limitation of the period of persecution, only a murder committed before 1945 under § 211 of the Reichspunishment Code would not be deemed to be limited. The judgment of the Volksgerichtshof, which you cited, which pronounced a conviction for crimes of complicity in the death penalty, § 5 of the Criminal Code, referred to § 212 Reichspränzetzbuch. [[Abg. Elder: Not valid!]] The Court of First Instance had no jurisdiction in this regard. He has only spoken in the light of the fact that he said that it has not actually been examined – I have done so – whether the acts underlying the condemnation were causal or active in the killings of the children who eventually took place. Justice assumes that the Reichsprüfsgesetzbuch was and is and therefore comes to the subjective act. It has always been considered – in earlier cases of evaluation and in the underlying documents – that participation from low motives cannot be accepted. It was new on the occasion of the last announcement that the existence of additional evidence was claimed, which, as I believe, should not be ignored and attached from the outset, so that the circumstances can be seen and conclusions can also be drawn on the subjective action page. Therefore, according to the Federal Ministry of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office was last addressed to the Berlin II Public Prosecutor's Office for Legal Assistance for the transmission of the documents available to the Gauck authorities. In addition, the acquisition of the dissertation paper from a German author, which was completed in the meantime, was new compared to earlier completions. The prosecutor also made further decisions, especially to prevent, if such a thing were planned at all, that the brain preparations deposited in the Psychiatric Hospital at the Baumgartner Height of the children who were killed, as far as they are still present, would not be buried, which might be of further interest in the proceedings. I can only refer to what I have done and what was also the basis for the decision of the People's Court which had not been denied by the Supreme Court on this point. The further procedure is aimed at updating the documents now available and at stating that further documents should be available. On this basis, the facts must be established and consideration should also be given to whether the subjective action page has been properly assessed or not.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9648	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mrs Pittermann is now speaking. From now on, the maximum speaking time per speaker is 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9672	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For every decent person, the crimes of the Nazi era are as cruel as they are inconceivable. The often voiced defense on the command stand is nothing but a claim of protection. The crimes committed were committed out of hearing to the regime for the sake of personal advantage, out of pure sadism, or out of lust for the godlike power. The criminals show cynicism, or they represent themselves as innocent and ignorant. It is especially abominable, however, if a doctor has committed such crimes, which are committed to the Hippocratic oath. I quote from this oath: "I swear by Apollon, the doctor, and by Asklepios, that I will fulfill according to my strength and my mind wealth this oath and this commitment:... Nor will I give any deadly poison to anyone, he may ask for it himself, nor will he give any advice of this kind. ... In whatever house I come to, I want to enter it for the benefit of the sufferers and I contain any intentional wrongdoing and any harmful act... Now, if I keep this oath and don't break it, I may rejoice in my life and in my art in honor of all men for all time, but if I become my own, all things shall be evil to me." They have done something to protect and cure them. They have not only refused to give and help, they have tormented and killed them. I admit that it is extremely difficult today to grasp the full extent of Dr. Heinrich Gross's involvement in these terrible murders. According to these documents, statements and reports, there is no doubt about his guilt. His career speaks volumes and identifies him as a glowing follower of the NS ideology: 1932 as a 17-year-old HJ member, then SA, 1935 District Training Guide, further Sturmbann Training Guide, 1937 Oberscharführer, 1938 application for NSDAP membership, 1939 Oberkaufführer, 1944 Golden HJ badge, from November 1940 on his own request transfer as a doctor to the "Spiegelgrund". Why'd you go there right now? I quote from a "profile" article: "The Psychiatric Clinic at Steinhof accommodated the "Am Spiegelgrund", a department for which the law firm of the leader had planned its own task. Certain trusted doctors received the authorization to put an end to lifeless life. For the ‘spiegelgrund’ this special task was undoubtedly an award, because Hitler’s command was known only ‘a limited circle of people’. Secrecy was top duty, and it was used for this activity 'only experts and doctors who were proven National Socialists or SS leaders'." Dr. Large was characterized by great zeal for work. His behavior after 1945 as well as statements by fellow perpetrators, patients and family members as well as victims show him to be a perpetrator. He published scientific work on the brain cuts of victims and wanted to habilitate with them. Until recently, the collected brains in the Baumgartner Hospital were still preserved, only now buried. It is shocking and terrifying how precisely those Nazi crimes committed by doctors are bagatellized. A few years ago, in Germany, on the occasion of a congress, I experienced the anger of a German transfusion physician decorated with dirt that another transfusion physician had not been granted the medical honor for scientific merits acquired on the basis of tests with Nazi prisoners because of a newspaper article. Every decent person agrees with me that these terrible crimes against people must never be delayed and never forgotten. In contrast to the victims, the Nazi criminals lived, they were not tormented or mutilated. The use of Dr. Great as a court psychiatrist is incomprehensible and unbearable to me. I hope that in the future his opinions, whose competence I doubt, will be abandoned. As a doctor, I am ashamed of such a colleague who has so betrayed our ethics, our principles and our oaths. I would like to see a judicial investigation of these horrific crimes according to our laws, because in the first trial the judgment was made according to the Nazi laws, compensation for the victims and an adequate punishment for the perpetrator.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9745	Mr Rasinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9767	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In 1980, Dr. Largely condemned in an honorary process which he sought, on the grounds that Dr. Heinrich Gross was involved in the killing of an undetermined number of mentally ill, mentally weak, or severely ill children. If I allow the history of Revue to happen and consider how many procedures have been worked out and how often and quickly advertisements have been returned, I must say that it seems incomprehensible to me that these procedures have not been brought to an end, which many citizens do not understand, especially in this very sensitive foreign country. Time and again, witnesses have paid back ads, and they have been returned again and again. If the 1951 explanatory statement states that only 18 out of 772 cases have been investigated, there seems to me to be a lax approach here. As a doctor, I certainly do not want to admit to the legal question which law is to be applied. But as a doctor, I would like to say very well – as did Mrs Primaria Pittermann: I cannot accept the fact that the medical field of Nazi crimes is being bagatized. The doctors were also part of a cruel killing machine in Austria, which brutally killed not only dissidents, other races, but also the sick and the disabled. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: All doctors?]] Not all doctors! – Mr Dr. Large was sentenced once in a legal order, and a second judgment was repealed. I hope that a careful examination will be carried out in the current procedure. As a doctor, I can only say one thing: Mr Dr. Great is absolutely no model for me. In general, we must, as a doctor, massively distance ourselves from the processes at that time. We must also learn for the future and defend all the beginnings. If I often read in the international press – not only in the Austrian press – that, due to the high medical costs, the "life value" is spoken of, "deliver patients from their sufferings", of the "too high cost of the last half year of life", and if various states seriously think about euthanasia laws, because the treatment is no longer financially viable and because the patients already wanted it, then as an Austrian doctor, I can only say a definite no. My party will certainly not get into this debate in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want to apologize as a doctor to the many victims and survivors of the Third Reich, since we doctors have done a great deal of help that hundreds of thousands of people have died in race and in false duties. Personally, I'm ashamed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[14:52]] Notice of applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9813	I have to say that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, request that an investigation committee be set up on the following subject: Investigation of misbehaviour of organs of execution in the absence of detention or arrest of detention Pavlikowsky or Ministerial Council Rehak, political responsibility for the completely inadequate cooperation between secret services, investigation agencies and justice. There was no need to hold a debate on this. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall take place at this sitting after the end of the negotiations. In accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall also request that an investigation committee be set up on the following subject: Examining the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free exit of the perpetrators concerning the murder of the then chairman of DPK-I Dr. Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou and his two confidants; in particular, whether and what instructions were given in view of the threats from Iran to "denominate the documents on the illegal Austrian arms supplies in the first Gulf War" – as claimed by the former President of Iran Bani-Sadr. The debate was not called for. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, after the end of the negotiations, the vote will take place at this sitting. The next speech is by Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9856	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have rarely found as much agreement with my previous speakers of the various parliamentary parties as I have in this matter. – One must face the truth, and, ladies and gentlemen, the truth in this matter is first of all the fact that in the past justice has not shown that care that would have been necessary to bring light to the Causa. It has already been carried out – and I can fully agree with it – that, at this time, as regards the display of the documentation archive of the Austrian resistance of March 1997, no accusation can be made to the Minister of State as usual, it was the Minister of the Federal Government who did not satisfy himself and had the need for further surveys to be carried out. In the past, however, inconsistencies have occurred in this criminal case. If I consider the 1995 procedure and see the grounds of the prosecutor's office, why no further surveys have been carried out, I can only reject it as a lawyer, because if, Mr Federal Minister, in 1995, it has been said by the public prosecutor's office that further surveys would not be appropriate to disprove the accused's earlier denying responsibility, that is an intolerable reason for a lawyer. It is clear that this is a premise of evidence, and I am incomprehensible that such a statement was accepted in 1995 at the time. My knowledge and my deep understanding of the reason why in 1981 the prosecutors did not continue to operate. In 1981, Dr. Vogt was acquitted in an honorary process by the private accused, because the court considered the proof of truth – namely, that of the trial in the killing of euthanasia victims, of children – to be delivered. I am incomprehensible from today's point of view for which no further surveys have been carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, I spoke on this subject for a reason. I saw an old NS propaganda film on television a few years ago, which really shook me deeply. The NS regime had tried to justify the euthanasia of mental diseases and of mentally ill children by means of a film presentation. And there is almost no increase in the perfidy, as this representation was made at the time by the murderer regime, by the Nazi regime: First of all, the mentally ill persons were taken from an angle, which made them appear visually very unfavorable. On the other hand, it has been said – and here I am entirely of an opinion with my colleague Dr. Pittermann, one has to face up to this terrible cynicism – if these unfortunate "creatures" as it was said in the Nazi propaganda film could see how pointless their existence is, they would only give the authorisation to their killing. – And for me, this is such a loathsome cynicism that I hardly think there is an increase. Ladies and gentlemen! At present, the procedure is taking the right course, it is now – and that is what you have to say – a floating procedure. It's not right when colleague Rasinger talks about it, Dr. Large has been legally condemned – I think that was a promise – it is an open procedure. It belongs to everything researched, by all sides, because even if these circumstances are more than 50 years behind, the coat of silence must not be spread over these terrible acts.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9904	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9925	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is possible, because of the previous debate, that I will concentrate on a few thoughts which are already taking place in a really good context. I mean, the case – Mr Krüger said it – is floating now, that is right, but he is a case study for himself. The fact that the current Federal Minister has been able not to come closer to the public prosecutor's proposal and ask for further investigations shows us that this behaviour would have been possible at any time in this procedure, including at earlier dates, from a compelling logic: from the very opposite logic of the arguments put forward in 1951, 1981 and 1995. The judgment of the Supreme Court in 1951 in reference to the judgment of the People's Court of Justice has recognized procedural defects and referred them back to the first instance, and the prosecutor has not made any further investigations, but is simply satisfied with them. We know from the answer to the question that, in a parallel procedure, there has been no longer any evidence of expert evidence in order to speed up the procedure, as the evidence in this other procedure has already been sufficient to make a well-founded accusation. The investigation authorities of 1951 and the following have therefore operated a kind of de-nazification in Austrian. They thought: Dr. Great has been said in court, he has been sentenced, the Supreme Court has lifted the judgment, the man has suffered enough – let us be good. This is between the lines. He was subjected to the unfairness of a criminal proceedings, initially suffered the shock of a conviction, then the judgment was lifted – let us be good. – It is clear with a clear eye that this judgment was apparently withdrawn not only for formal reasons, but at the time it had done much too little research in this procedure. No expert opinions have been collected in this large procedure. However, I think that is essential, especially if the Minister of State has quoted the fact that the German criminal law – and I am going to address the question – should be applied here, where it also means: "... or in order to allow for another offence". I say: What from these documents we know about the behavior of Dr. Largely recognizable, was at least suitable to allow other crimes, and is therefore well suited to be subsumed under § 211 of German criminal law – if you only thoroughly researched enough. This raises the question of the limitation of persecution. Federal Minister! They recall the limitation debate in this country. The limitation debate was quite a successful Austrian way, despite different legal situations in the years before 1938, between 1938 and 1945 and after 1945, to stop the limitation of certain crimes in that country, although they would have been limited in accordance with Nazi law. We did a positive job at the time. Here it appears, I believe, that only because from the outset the investigations of the prosecutor's office were not subject to § 211 – because one can only investigate after a work hypothesis, not after an already existing result – was not at all further investigated under appeal to limitation. That, I tell you, is the political problem. That was the method of denazification in Austrian by the judicial system. I am glad that this method is now broken. I am particularly concerned with the production of a proper procedural process, whatever the case may be. May Dr. Greatly acquitted or condemned if it will only finally be a fair, proper and just procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9968	Mrs Magnette is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9989	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I know that the Federal Minister is currently under pressure. Because justice is making him a big break at the moment. Federal Minister! Nevertheless, I do not hide here how disappointed I am also about your oral answer. For, very much appreciated Mr. Federal Minister – and this is what Mrs. Pittermann and Dr. Krüger, colleague Kier and Karl Öllinger have said: What Parliament and the Members of the National Council are concerned about is not to know solely what problems ministerial officials or even in the procedure were involved in examining these aspects, but we expect you, Federal Minister, to act politically. They are the head of the department and are at the top of a hierarchy. It is you who now have the opportunity in this case to influence this procedure in the sense that you could also exercise your right of guidance in order to bring light to this matter. Thank you, Minister of State! This has been in discussion for years. When I just started studying, the "critical physicians" brought the case to the public. If, as you have confirmed this and whatever is known in the public, you do not do anything in 1981 and draw these conclusions in 1995, Volker Kier discussed here earlier, then, Mr Federal Minister, I would have in this situation in 1997, where there is a much higher sensitivity in the public, as regards the Nazi time in Austria and the debt and debt of Austrians at the time, in the coming millennium, a much higher sensitivity than in the 1980s, expect you to now stand at the top of those who do everything so that there is no further cover-up, nothing disappears and you do not continue to remain inactive – quite the contrary. Federal Minister! I get a lot of letters from the "hook", because very, very many who are in Austria, turn to the judges and want help. I have also now received letters from prisoners, who have been informed in the newspapers of the activity of my colleague Ollinger. Big was. One writes me – I brought only one letter at the speed –: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I am a criminal. I stole, cheated, and also robbed in my alcohol shower. But where does it lead to the fact that justice has known for 50 years – he now means justice, politics as a whole – who this Heinrich Gross is, that this justice has returned numerous ads, that this justice does not allow it to become a pre-punished road passenger and canal spacer, a man who probably has the death of more than 200 children on the conscience, but as a court expert who has to decide whether a thief, robber et cetera has all the senses together, and who provides essential foundations on the grounds of guilt? – These are the crucial political questions, Mr. Federal Minister! We – especially Karl Oellinger – will not let go. We will ask these questions that you have not answered again and again. We will constantly make the demand for a contemporary, medical-historical opinion in order to be able to proceed further in this matter. We will also continue to relate to the question of how to claim in Austria in 1997 and the NS legislation has been applied, and we must take note of it formally. Federal Minister! It is too little for me if you demand that the preparations "Am Spiegelgrund" are not removed now, do not disappear – whatever happens to it. All that's still there from the "sculpture ground" is to be ensured. It's not just about childhood euthanasia. It is also about the youth euthanasia programme. It's about the injustice that happened there. It's about the commitment we have today. I would like to add the following to Mrs Primaria Dr. Pittermann's remarks: I am convinced that doctors have a great, greater responsibility, but it is now appropriate for me as a politician to say that it is not only the responsibility of doctors, but I am concerned that we, who are now active politicians, must not even blame us for not forgetting the principle of "Never forget!" I've done it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10046	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10068	We are now negotiating the request made by Dr Schmidt and Comrades to set up an investigative committee to review the political responsibility of the Federal Government – in particular the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Justice – and suspected illegal influence by political agents in connection with the investigations on the murders of Abdullah Ghaderi, Abdul-Rahman Ghassemlou and Fadel Rasoul on 13 March. July 1989 and the persecution of three of these serious suspects, who, despite clear indications, could leave Austria unblemished. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10122	We are going into the debate. I would like to refer again to § 57a of the Rules of Procedure with the time limits, including with regard to members of the Federal Government. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes speaking time max. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10146	Mr President. High house! This request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is not for the first time here in this House to be debated. We have already announced, when we first put him, that we will put him back again and again. It was quite clear to us that a decision by the Members of the Government is not ready for the first time. I even understand that the interests of the representatives of the government groups are quite different, that there is a greater understanding of the situation of the government and the people acting in this area. I also understand that one is concerned that such an investigation committee could cast shadows on the parties whose members of the government are at the centre of the investigation in its outcome, but perhaps also in its leadership. It would be a nonsense to just move that away. I quite understand, but I still hope that you will have a rethinking in connection with such a committee of inquiry. First: It cannot be believed that the instrument of a committee of inquiry should not be used in practice, that it is a dead law – this term has recently fallen – and that it is thus formally safeguarded by the opposition's control instruments, but in reality there is no need for an investigation committee, because one will do so with one's own instruments. I can't do that. I just don't think that's your political understanding. The second is – and I ask you to think about it –: If you are concerned that shadows may fall on your parties, then you should weigh it against the concern for the shadows that arise when your parties get the image to be covert parties. This is not some polemics, but what do you think about what conclusions people draw from the fact that you are so opposed to such committees of inquiry? A direct reaction is – and it is obvious –: Well, they'll hide something already, they'll have something to hide! Mr Löschnak! You cannot agree that the report which comes from your own home is really regarded as a credible control report. You can't even agree with a politically uninterested person, let alone someone who thinks about it and who deals with it. This cannot be taken seriously into account that a report from your own home actually wants to reveal irregularities – and the contradictions and the gaps that are evident now by the presentation of the report prove this too. That means you are right to fear: What if it turns out that one or the other of your ranks did not behave as he should have behaved? That hurts you, you don't want to do that and you don't want to do it to your parties either. Yes, I understand that, but you also have concerns about what political understanding you convey to the outside, which political responsibility you convey to the outside and which image your parties get with it if you just block off, without any real reason. If this is not just about the image of the parties, I really ask you: What political understanding do you have of your task here in the House? We know that the legislative task is already being fulfilled in a way that does not actually satisfy parliamentaryism. I do not want to start a major structural debate now, but you all have to feel this discomfort, that there is a lot missing here and that we only meet the minimum standards here anyway. Then there is a second equivalent task for Parliament, and that is control. And now you also want to put this control function completely ad acta, now you say that you do not want to implement it in the parliamentary space at all, that they should do it out there? – This cannot be your contribution to the improvement of political culture. In my opinion, no one of you has the right to talk about improving parliamentaryism if he does not make his own contribution where he is possible. It would be an essential contribution if you allowed such a control instrument. Now I think you want to "sit it" – quotation marks. You sit on time and say, Now the opposition with its actions still has the public's attention, now people are still attentive, we only need to listen long enough or not to listen, sometime this is going to be dead, and the journalists don't write about it anymore. It may be that this is an account that may occur sometime, but the chances are small, I tell you. Firstly, because we are certainly not going to let go because we see a need for control here, and secondly, I believe that this is an account that you are not supposed to make, because you are actually making a declaration of bankruptcy of your parliamentary understanding in terms of control. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I cannot imagine that anyone of you who has read the report has the feeling that it is all right. This cannot be because the contradictions and the gaps are evident, the contradictions that exist between the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, the grounds for detention. Remember, we have dealt here with a urgent question on this subject, including in the context of a special meeting. At the time, the Foreign Minister told us that there had been no grounds for arrest, and in the report presented a few days later from your place of business, Mr Lösnak, there is a remarkable list of all the grounds for arrest. – There is no more blatant contradiction at all. Justice hasn't hit an earwash. Now I say something to you, although there is no direct link: If justice does not feel that this Parliament too is ready to control, then such misdemeanors will occur again and again. We have only now experienced such a failure. I think it is a scandal as to how Mr P. was dealt with in connection with the letter bombs. I think it is a scandal with which a President of the Court acts as if it were a matter of judicial independence if nothing happens. Yes, you nodd with your head, and many here may agree on it, but how do you somehow want to discipline it if everyone can rely on it that anyway is not controlled. The Minister of Justice has not responded, and this Parliament is not responding in other cases. That is, if we do not convey the feeling that there is an attentive control here, then you will experience it again and again. As shamefully as this argument was made by the President of the Court, who said that this was judicial independence, it was now seen that even after the hearing had to be heard, the detention had to be imposed. This alone shows that there is a procedure chosen here that acts out of a self - glory that cannot be allowed. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Now I do not want to assume that such self-glorification was at the time the cause of these events in 1989. This is certainly not comparable, and I do not want to put it to anyone. But I think it's important to know: Was pressure exerted, and if so, on whom, and who has been influenced by it? I think this is particularly important if there are the highest representatives in our country who are suspected of giving in to the pressure and passing it on to them. And if this highest representative is not only the Federal President, but also the chief commander of our federal army, it must be your task to make a clarification here. And this is only with a committee of inquiry in this House. You can't explain that outside! That is why I appeal to you – hopefully for the last time; only if you do not step in today, certainly not for the last time – to allow a rethinking of yourself, to allow committee of inquiry, and in this way to restore credibility to politics a little more than it would be necessary anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10241	I call Mr Löschnak. From now on, the maximum speaking time is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10262	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I acknowledge that you actually have the louder intention of using Parliament in its control function in certain areas to explain what was actually and what consequences should be drawn from it. I acknowledge this personally to you, only in some of the parties involved do I lack the belief that it is meant by sincerity as it is with you. For at least part of it is not about actually taking facts here and drawing conclusions from it, so that in the future there may no longer be a misbehavior. You can't really tell anyone that. This shows the situation alone, what has happened since the 10. April 1997 has repeated here several times and what has been happening since then in front of the running camera or in the newspapers. Those who believe that Parliament's control must be heard here and therefore a committee of inquiry have started to speak of a judgment which - and I quote now - has ruined Austria's reputation, which has been a severe blow to the credibility of Austria. And I've told you this before: Nobody – nor you! – knows this judgment. You know a seven-page press release from the Press Office of the Berlin Ministry of Justice of 11 November. In April 1997, a single sentence points to Austria: The red thread, which connects the events of Vienna and Berlin, is unmistakable. Your conclusion from this sentence, which you have written in your application today, is: "This judgment, which shows that Iran was directly encouraged by the handling of the Kurd murder in Vienna to initiate further attacks abroad, is a severe blow to the credibility of Austrian foreign policy..." Wherever you take the right to draw this conclusion from this statement of press release, you have to justify it a little more than with the general phrase that the Austrian Parliament has a control right and therefore ought to set up an investigation committee. – That's the first flop. The second flop, ladies and gentlemen, is not so much for you, but you also refer to the person who caused the second flop. The Greens then, when they saw that no one has a judgment, can not have it at all, because it has been proclaimed orally and because it has not yet been written and therefore all these links, which are claimed here, are simply not detectable, with the start of calling crowns. There the Greens – and this is something that really excited me personally – have moved on to Mr. Bani-Sadr. Mr. Bani-Sadr was flown to Austria and acted as a crown. This one then made the following statement – I quote the APA of the 18th century. April 1997 –: A political murder that remains without persecution is always associated with corruption, said Bani-Sadr. However, the ex-President, who had been living in exile since 1981, did not present any evidence. Yes, my venerations. Ladies and gentlemen, who is Mr Bani-Sadr? This is the Prime Minister who was responsible in Iran in 1980, 1981, where there were blood courts and where thousands of people were politically persecuted and executed. And this is the testimony of the Greens, whose statements are based on the desire to set up a committee of inquiry here in Parliament. That's really a shame, I'd like to tell you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Anschober! I cannot understand that you sit on a bench with someone like Mr Bani-Sadr and Mr Pilz and then go on television. I don't understand you anymore. They have lost any credibility ever to talk about human rights or anything in this context. With Mr. Bani-Sadr as a witness really not! That must have been said to you with clarity! - That was the second flop. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And now you're on the third flop: Now you try, out of every word, that 1979,...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10310	I would like to conclude by saying that, Mr President, I have to say that I do not wish to speak on behalf of the
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10326	... 1980 and in current statements has fallen to construct contradictions. Just, you just can't do that because things have been much more banal and much easier than you believe. There is – and I stick to it – a chain of mistreatments, there are misevaluations, but there has never been what you try to put to us all the time: the will to cover up the whole story and let supposed murderers walk free.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10358	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10379	Mr President. High house! Mrs Schmidt has rightly pointed out this – is she not your colleague? – that, in addition to legislation, control is the most important task of Parliament. [[Abg. Kiss: A new tone is coming in!]] Mr Kiss! It has also rightly pointed out that it is this great coalition that already undermines the legislative task of this Parliament. And if you don't believe it, then you'll weigh this blow of billboards that my colleague Haselsteiner used here once on the pult, so you know what meaning this legislative machine is that has to answer the great coalition! But that's not the subject today. The subject today is the control activity of Parliament, and this, Mr Löschnak, is not taken very seriously. Mr Löschnak! They have now gone out and have argued on the matter for the first time. [[Abg. Dr. Löschnak: For the second time!]] The first time the word was not so meaningful. I come to speak on your speech. So far, only the argument has been made that the Peter Pilz was so angry with the "Noricum" Committee, we do not do that again. That's what it was. Your previous argument. Therefore, Mr Lösnak, the President-in-Office of the Council has taken up the suggestion of the club members and said: Let's talk about the procedure. And now the two clubmen from ÖVP and SPÖ have opened their back door for the first time and said: Yes, if we reach an agreement on procedural law – even though Mr Khol meant the opposite on the previous weekend – then we will also have to talk about the committees, because we will not be able to create dead law. Now on the matter itself, Mr Löschnak. You're right: Bani-Sadr was the worst witness to be dragged into a press conference here. I have already mentioned this in the last debate on this subject. Bani-Sadr was the worst witness, just what the Kurdish problem is all about, not just what is going on in Iran. It's not about the "Mykonos" judgment either. That was the triggering moment when certain political groups discovered the need for action. But what the government has sent to the political groups in its three-ministeria report indicates already a committee of inquiry – with all due respect. For it cannot be explained to the Austrian public that now, as I had almost said, in series, there is no arrest warrant against an already identified fellow culprit, of which one knows today that he was the main culprit, namely Mr Sahraroodi. This is located in the hospital, the seller of the escape vehicle goes to the hospital with the police and identifies him. This is reported by your Ministry of Justice, but no arrest warrant will be issued by the judiciary to this day for uninventional reasons – at least as long as he has stayed on the Austrian federal territory. No, he's being sent abroad with police corps! Federal Minister! Don't be angry with me, but that's really in need of information! Whether it is done in an investigation committee or in another way, which brings acceptable light into the dark, is put there once. But the President of the Federal Government needs a bit more explanation than what he has said to the public so far. The Minister of Justice also needs much more explanation than what is to be read in the report, where some formal arguments attempt to cover why no arrest warrant has been issued against a suspect, already identified main culprit. I'm convinced that if a warrant had been in place, the police corps would have gone not to the border, but probably to the gray house. There the "good Lord" would probably have been kept well. Ladies and gentlemen! The boycott is therefore an emergency defence measure, an emergency measure to protect parliamentarism, especially in order to stop letting any further information be made available. It is not only about this one committee, it is also about banking history, where the suicide of the bank director Praschak was a triggering moment, it is also about how the investigations in the letter bomb causa have been conducted. There is a series of pans that lead back to the Ministry of Justice. The most recent case, those of the Ing. P., I don't exaggerate. I'm still relatively skeptical of what comes out. But the environment of the ing. P. would have been illustrious by the court. I have also repeatedly pointed out from this Rostra that there is something wrong with this. This has not been a subject in justice to this day. As a Parliament, we have to talk about how justice works, how it was possible that disinformants – partly even with taxpayers; I can prove this to you, Minister – have kept their own ministry a fool and, through your own ministry, the entire Austrian public, Mr. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10421	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10437	This should be your concern, because not least you have become a victim of these disinformants.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10467	The next speech is by Mr Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10488	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to refer to Mr Lösnak's comments. Mr Löschnak! I think you will agree when I note that the facts of the events in connection with the Kurds murders were on the table and that our request in his explanatory statement has long gone beyond the "Mykonos" judgment of Berlin. In our explanatory statement, we are already referring to the report submitted by the Federal Government to this House, and to the fact that this report raises more questions than it answers. That is why we have recently made a request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely this report of the Federal Government that confirms that there is a red thread of the events in Vienna at that time on the murders in Berlin. He confirms Iran's state terrorism. That is why I believe that if we uphold the rule of law in this country, our courts, our authorities, on the basis of this rule of law, should act accordingly and should also be able to prevent crimes committed in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! It really is about the credibility of our country, about the reputation of our country and also about the role of this Parliament. It is necessary to restore this reputation, because they have unfortunately suffered very serious damage from past behavior. Mr Löschnak! I assume that what you said in 1989 was still valid for you today. In fact, you said in July 1989: "In a rule of law, the law must be consistently pursued, which negative accompanying phenomena may always occur." This was emphasized by Minister Lösnak in a "standard" interview. It is therefore imperative that we proceed on the basis of the rule of law and that this very principle can also be applied to us parliamentarians, namely that we have the role of Parliament accordingly. We're required. There is a need for action, Mr Löschnak, especially if we look at the report of the Federal Government to Parliament. This report is not sufficient. I think he's a cutback for Parliament. We are therefore all required, in our self-understanding as parliamentarians, not to take note of this report. It is necessary to request further information on the basis of this report, namely within the framework of a committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen! If you read the report through, you have to say that the Ministry of the Interior has put the facts on the table and that, in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, the question of political responsibility does not really arise. But, of course, the question is: Why was the State Police not able to carry out the security police duties accordingly? The question, too, is why the Socialist Ministers of the Interior were unable to design and organize the instruments accordingly, so that this task could have been fulfilled, so that we too could have received information. That the other intelligence services obviously know what is happening in Austria, but not their own state police, I regret that I find that even threatening! That is why it is also important to question political responsibilities as such. Ladies and gentlemen! But above all, political responsibilities must be defined in the field of the Ministry of Justice and in the field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this way, the first call for a special meeting by the Liberal Forum was a real step, as the political responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be clarified. The Ministry of Justice – which has already been addressed today – has demonstrated a procedure which is not understandable, which the Ministry of the Interior itself has criticized by saying: There are facts on the table that, in normal action, as in any violent crime, should have actually led to arrest warrants being issued. This behaviour is absolutely unacceptable, and it is therefore also to be questioned why the judicial system gives the impression that, under the cover of the independence of justice, it will leave the ground of the rule of law. I come to the conclusion of the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a lot to be asked here. The report is incomplete. In particular, it is important to examine the role played by the then Secretary-General in the field of foreign affairs, because it is unbearable for me that the current President, in his role as senior official, as the highest official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has given up pressure from abroad. That's a fact that's on the table for me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10549	Mr Anschober is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10575	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The events shown in recent weeks in the scandal for the escape aid of the Kurds murderers of Vienna and their backgrounds have quite a system. It is always possible to track this system when it comes to major political criminal cases in Austria. We have experienced this and this has been shown in the committee of inquiry on "Lucona", which we have experienced in the Causa "Noricum". Now you can understand similar things in this state-organized escape aid for the Kurds murders of Vienna. I fear that if there is no end-point here through parliamentary education, a parliamentary inquiry, we will still often experience such cases in Austria. At least memories arise in the current case of Causa, although with other reasons, with other backgrounds, although it is likely that in the present case, in the case of Rehak, in the case of the Ing. P., actually is a mixture of pans and political motives. We'll have a lot more on the table in the next few weeks. But a system repeats over and over again. This Parliament must set a stop signal to show where the structural errors lie and what reforms need to be made so that the executive can work efficiently and thus the judicial system can work efficiently. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Eight weeks after the start of the Enlightenment on this matter, even after the parliamentary debate, it can be said that the burden of proof is now overwhelming, which is the result of the three government reports, on the one hand, from the Ministry of the Interior and from the Ministry of Justice's hand, on the other, of a state-organized breach of justice for terrorists. It is now obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that only one committee of inquiry is able to explain these questions. Why? Firstly, because there is a ministry, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is still firmly refusing to present the relevant decisive files. Neither in the case of the government report nor direct requests from parliamentarians, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was prepared to present these documents. A wall of silence is to be built, and the competent minister will know why this is the case. The second point is about President Dr. Klestil. ==References== April publicly stated: I have no intervention from Iran, and I have not taken any reason to do so. This was the untruth. This is reflected in the government report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in which the intervention of the Iranian ambassador Shirazi and, in well-Austrian terms, the "information talk" of Kletil zu Löschnak are demonstrated. This Parliament would, for example, be interested in the notes on these two talks, i.e. the notes on how this intervention by the Iranian ambassador at Kletil and what the so-called information talk between Klestil and Löschnak looked like. These files belong on the table, and this can only be done once again by a committee of inquiry. If the Federal President declared yesterday: Of course I am in favour of putting all the files on the table, and if, at the same time, the Foreign Minister refuses to present these documents by his party, then this is a transparent game of the Austrian People's Party, which is not to be maintained. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, this is about the role of the public prosecutor. Since today, we know that, while the public prosecutors will be questioned in this procedure, it will not be questioned exactly by those officials who are politically sensitive and sensitive. Neither ex-minister Lösnak nor the then Secretary-General Klestill nor others in the field of politics will be questioned. That means there will be no information here either. And last point: We now know that the Kurds of Vienna in 1989 have not been a single case, that there was a similar case two years before in the area of then Iranian exile politician Reza Citger. Even since a cold-blooded murder on the part of the Iranian regime, even since no reaction...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10617	Your final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10632	... the police in the appropriate moment. For this reason, it is important for this House to examine whether this series of murders, whether this series of terrorism in Vienna or this self-organization with murderers and terrorists from Vienna has method and, if so, who have been the wire-drawers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10662	The text of the Rules of Procedure has been used. The debate is closed. We are entering the voting procedure. I would therefore ask you to take your place. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Dr Schmidt and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give this request an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Member. Stadler and comrades on the establishment of an investigative committee for the further examination of political and legal responsibility in connection with the sale of the federal shares to the Bank Austria, the Creditanstalt Bank, and the implementation of the Export Promotion Act and the Export Funding Act. This request has also been distributed. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10739	We are going into the debate. Once again, I refer to Rule 57a of the Rules of Procedure with the corresponding time limits. For the reason, Mr Mag. Stadler. There are 10 minutes of speaking time available to him. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10766	Mr President. High house! I regret that not only the Federal Chancellor, who has to attend party congresses, but unfortunately also the Minister of Finance, is no longer present. I would have liked to talk to him about what he has delivered to the House of Lords, because I have the suspicion that he really believes what he says, that he believes what he has tried to explain to the House, namely the relationship between Bank Austria, AVZ and WestLB is such that the WestLB must fear that it will be bought up, not vice versa. So the WestLB must be afraid! Although it transfers a lot of money to Austria, Mr Randa can probably also afford the purchase of the CA shares. It's going to be examined sometime. Sometime, the ÖVP will also be interested in actually bringing light into the dark. The Minister of Finance has told us: No, that's all because it's actually going the other way around, because the Germans have to be afraid of the Austrians buying up, not vice versa. Then he told us that the Federal Minister for Finance needed nothing to know about the operations. He did not need to know that, he said that he did not do that, because unless only the intention was to sign up to sell bank shares and that would never have existed. Ladies and gentlemen! That is to say, in good German, on "Edlinger-Deutsch" nothing other than that the banks conclude a contract with the AVZ, make all possible agreements up to the pre-purchasing right, to the right that the Bank Austria shares of the AVZ of the WestLB are offered, and if it does not access, it can even refer to a third party to which it is to be sold. This is much more than a pre-purchasing right. It can even refer to a third party to which it is for sale, and then it can be sold there. They do all of this, Mr Edlinger has told us, because they do not mean it seriously. There is no intention behind this, but they only conclude contracts, because otherwise they are so fading, says Federal Minister Edlinger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's literally quoted. For example, the Federal Minister tried to help his chancellor out of the patch, because of course an application was made because the Federal Chancellor was of course informed as then Finance Minister. He told the House today and yesterday the whole Austrian public the untruth. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nobody, not even again Your own coalition partner, believe you in this fairy tale that Mr Edlinger has opened to us. The Minister of Finance a.D. and now Federal Chancellor is not informed by his owner on the Supervisory Board of Bank Austria. That can be believed or not, Mr President, has said stupidly. But there is no announcement under § 20 Banking Act – we will still question that, since we are already coming to the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, rely on it! – but this is not the case with the Federal Minister for Finance Climate, says his successor Edlinger. Ladies and gentlemen! But you can't explain to me that in the preliminary meeting for the negotiations with the Austrian People's Party on the night of 11 to 12 November, I would like to say that I am in favour of the negotiations with the Austrian People's Party. January, about which I am quite well informed, the pre-purchasing right of the WestLB was not mentioned! Tell me who you want, the grandmother of finance minister Edlinger, but you don't need to tell us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Austrian People's Party can tell you this, the Austrian People's Party can take you around on the nose, but not on us. The Federal Chancellor was informed on the point. He told the Austrian public the untruth. But unlike his successor and the mayor of Vienna Häupl, he does it all the time. In this case, he is consistent in saying the untruth, while the Minister of State has admitted that he was informed of everything. He was informed about everything. But he signed a contract with the Austrian People's Party in which he specified exactly the opposite of what he had apparently agreed with the WestLB in the Federal Republic of Germany. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, can do that. I know very well that you already have the order to vote in favour of this request for investigation. All of this makes you like it. You know, Mr Khol, the attempt to play everything just on the Randa will not succeed. You personally share the responsibility of Mr Farnleitner and your partyobmann Schüssel for this story. There are always two of them when such a thing comes out: one who does it and one who lets it do it with him. [[Call to the ÖVP: One who agrees to the law, and that is you!]] And these are you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! It's you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Randa has been told today that he does not intend to move the WestLB to waive the right of pre-purchasing – he says this literally; he does not think about it at all! – because the only thing to do – and that must be done on the tongue – would put the trust relationship with the WestLB to the worst. – End of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen! So the relationship looks like – not how Mr. Federal Minister Edlinger wanted us to know in flowering words as fairytale uncles here. It's exactly the other way round: The WestLB is inside with a mastery contract and is thus inside the control bank. - You don't need to shake your head. Do you want to lull me, Mr Kostelka, or are you the only one who believes the fairy tales of Federal Minister Edlinger? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is neither contractual nor intellectually comprehensible!]] Oh, we now have an intellectual who explains to us this contract which the Minister says is not to be taken seriously at all, because the intention behind the Treaty is not meant at all. Let me explain this to you, Mr Kostelka. You have not been able to explain it to the Austrian People's Party. They didn't make the attempt at all. I am not convinced that, if you had the Austrian People's Party, you would have the Schmarren on 12 May. January, all blacks would still have signed this agreement. This is how the conditions look: Randa does what he wants. Cushion is now trying to play everything on the Randa, in reality you are equally responsible for these problems. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You are also responsible for the fact that WestLB now also has control over the control bank, and you are also responsible for the fact that WestLB has control over the seat that Bank Austria has now taken over after the sale of the SPÖ shares to the National Bank. And here, ladies and gentlemen, play with you. That's the Austrian solution? This is the Austrian solution that results from the law, which is clearly understandable from the law, which results from the explanations to the law, which results from the report of reasons on the law which results from the report from the Financial Committee to Parliament. Everything is understandable! This Austrian solution is called WestLB today. And if you still tell me that the WestLB is an Austrian bank, then good night, ladies and gentlemen, and then good night, Austrian People's Party! Ladies and gentlemen! So you've been pulled over the table, and you're not man enough today to make the socialist clear: [[strong contradiction with the ÖVP]] Until here and no further! You're missing the mumm. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. They don't need to get out and play the big state politician. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You have agreed!]] Unfortunately, because of responsibility for the country, he said, although we want out of the coalition, we cannot get out of the coalition. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. They have once again tried to make it clear to the Austrian public, why the ÖVP is already overturning, that it is necessary for state-political to fall over. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to clarify in this committee a very interesting story that employs the house next to the suicide of the director Praschak. Ladies and gentlemen! Can you explain to me or can the highly intellectual Klubobmann Kostelka explain to me why the control bank takes over liability for a railway business in Tunisia, where the Tunisians refuse to use the money? The letter went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That was black. It also says below that this letter is only intended for internal use and that any language arrangements must be sought externally. Ladies and gentlemen! This letter states that the Tunisian side has not shown any concrete interest in the use of Austrian billions of loans for railway projects in Tunisia, for which the control bank and therefore the Austrian taxpayer are liable. And the man who is prepared, a man from the message in Tunis, namely the ambassador himself, says that he is very skeptical as well as the trade delegate there, that it will succeed in forcing the Tunisians to their happiness. – End of the quote. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] You go abroad, you provide a billion-dollar loan, the Tunisians don't want it at all, and the ambassador reports to Vienna about it to his party friends in the ÖVP Centre and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, saying: Please, give me a language arrangement, the Tunisians, oh, how cruel, don't want to accept the money! Ladies and gentlemen! You're stuck deep inside, and that's why you're refusing the investigation. Therefore, any humiliation that the socialists do to you – and with the CA sale they have done you a great humiliation – must have no objection because you are in there. They are stuck deep in this whole malaise, and therefore you are also ready to prevent enlightenment, you are willing to make a federal chancellor the wall when it comes to a mistrust request. I assume that you have already been promised the next posts to restore the kitt in the coalition, namely the splitting of the Republic into red and black spheres of influence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the problem behind...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10870	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10886	... you are concerned, and you will probably no longer receive a committee of inquiry, but you will receive the necessary documents from your voters.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10916	Mrs Huber is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). From now on, maximum speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10937	Mr President. High house! As a 'kabarrettreif', Mr. Stadler, you have called the Minister of Finance, but you are all cabaret strips, and the laughter from your own ranks has proved it. I believe, in contrast, that you even believe that the Minister of Finance believes what he says. So I don't think you believe what you're saying. I can't imagine that at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Again! How was that?]] I would therefore also like to make absolutely sure that the individual... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Please do for the protocol! How was that now?]] No, listen! In contrast to the four and a half hours ahead, try listening once! [[Abg. May. Stadler: How was that now? What do you think?]] I know that you have to explain everything to you on a number of occasions. After all, you have now asked again for an inquiry committee to be set up, which has already been pointed out as a point of reference. Only: You did not understand, Mr Cot. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Since all the points have been explained point by point, the accusations made in your urgent today, as soap bubbles have been crushed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I want to know what you believe!]] If you want to know what I said, take the record to hand afterwards. By the way: These allegations actually leave only foam. If I look at the part to the control bank, I have to say: The 5 minutes speaking time is not enough to depress all the misevaluations, the mistakes, the half-truths and the strange conclusions you draw. But if one imagines that the liberals behind each economic process immediately whitewash a criminal act, a scandal, a package, a cover-up, then one could almost believe that you are obviously familiar with such methods in your ranks. Well, I'm not going to put it on you. But the folk mouth says: The bad guy thinks he is. It is therefore not the governmental parties... [[Abg. Aumayr: Mr. Col. stupid was also...!]] Don't take other colleagues who can speak for themselves. It is not the government parties who are supposed to harm the reputation of our country, but you actually disaster the position of Austria's bank square with your accusations, half-truths and untruths. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] I don't think that's funny or funny at all. – Just like a money institution and the whole money sector is this ongoing debate, you will know, if not, then let someone who is busy there explain it. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Since you cannot listen, I would like to read the comment from the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten) which Mr Novotny has already read to you this morning, so that you may hear him now. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are overwhelmed with this topic!]] I quote: "If there is already talk of high treason, it is not more betrayal if a leading politician against knowledge organises such a theatre at the expense of the reputation of the Austrian bank square and to the harm of the leading banks." [[Further calls to the liberals.]] There is absolutely nothing to add to this!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e11071	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e11093	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Huber has really tried, I would say, to clarify and to save what is to be saved, but unfortunately, it has gone completely in his pants. [[Call the liberals: In the skirt!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to explain from my point of view, Mr Huber, what this is really about. A few weeks ago, the tragic suicide of bank manager Gerhard Praschak, who has shaken this Republic, we take the opportunity to bring together all the mosaics that exist, and this, ladies and gentlemen, can only be done by a committee of inquiry and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, in particular the SPÖ, have tried to present Mr Praschak's suicide as an act of a crazy person. This, ladies and gentlemen, will certainly not be allowed to happen, because it does not kill you for nothing. In the control bank, ladies and gentlemen, we know that there are a number of interrelationships, of real interrelationships between economy and politics, between politics, economic enterprises and banking, whose construction, which has been very refined in the framework of the CA-Bank-Austria-deals, is that capital interconnecting is always shown to be very low, but the right of entry of managers, supervisory councils directly in the operating area of the bank 1 to 1 by 100 percent, and in the near future the West German Landesbank will probably also participate accordingly, as has already been shown. Ladies and gentlemen! There have been interventions, and everyone who disputed that there was them, I would like to teach him better. Grabs Please return, you will only have to go back a few years, i.e. in 1993. This year there is a highly interesting Court of Auditors report, which seems to have fallen asleep again after a short discussion. But I'd like to quote from it now. In point 7.4, for example, this report states: "In October 1990, in an enlarged advisory board, a case of a requested cover trade fair was finally decided positively already in June and in September, because a member of the government had promised a positive decision on the occasion of economic discussions in the customer state. This decision has also been "connected to Lacina in accordance with the foreign communication of the Federal Minister of Finance' (Federal Minister for Finance). It is clear from the documents that the applicant supplier was informed of the instructions given by the staff of the ministerial office." This is just an example, ladies and gentlemen. This is how it goes on side by side, and that was all in 1993. I could quote a lot of such examples. Unfortunately, my speaking time is not enough. Or, ladies and gentlemen, take the east aid. Five projects have been implemented, one project has met the economic objective. All other projects were flops. But they just said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This has to be financed on devils, that is a business for the banks!, and you're just marching on it. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, there was also a dubious consulting company involved where it has been proven to me that there are cross-links to SPÖ. All of this will have to be examined, and all of this can only be done by a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Third case – to quote only from the sample collection –: the company WIBEBA. This case went great through the media yesterday. It seems that a raw report was presented to a journalist of the APA. A single scandal, mismanagement from A to Z, mismanagement that achieves new records every day, from management premiums for zero benefits to the achievement of negative equity! Any private enterprise which is not the bank Austria or the municipality of Vienna must thus go into bankruptcy. This is not the case in the field of the Vienna Holding or Bank Austria, as other laws apply. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the scandal delivered by decades of packaging between black and red, and it is not objectionable to show this scandal, but it is objectionable that this scandal has been caused by you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I ask you – it is five minutes ago –: Take this situation seriously! Don't talk into claims of protection, don't point your finger at the opposition, but now finally do something so that the Republic will not be harmed further!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e11148	Mr Dkfm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mühlbachler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e11170	Mr President. High house! What the F provides in this debate is more than inconceivable to me. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] One has to imagine the following: There is evidence that Mr. Federal Partyobmann Dr. Jörg Haidervon der F had a confidential meeting with Dr. Randa in November last year, and that must have been agreed on all kinds of issues to which Dr. Haider is still bound today, because otherwise I cannot explain to myself that Members of the F have tried several times today to protect Dr. Randa. [[Call the ÖVP:Oho!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: And what did they eat?]] [[Call the ÖVP:Aha!]] There must have been all sorts of things that have been agreed upon, and I am convinced that Dr. Haider and his F have given their agreement to the CA-BA deal in full consciousness of this deal with the WestLB. That is the reason, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What did they eat?]] Something else is an absolute indication of this: In several press releases, Dr. Haider repeatedly talks about how satisfied he is with the outcome of the negotiations. So he must have promised someone that this deal would come true. This person can only have been Dr. Randa. Otherwise, this is not to explain his behavior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Members of the F stand out here and pretend to have stood totally away from this deal. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, we had a "Randa-vous"! What did they eat?]] It is unlikely to be the same tactic and strategy again and again, whenever you have butter on your head, try to cut around and toss what is going on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What did they eat at the Randa-vous?]] Mr Mag. Stadler! You're good enough for that right now. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] One more thing, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: Again and again the same accusations come from the F against the ÖVP. I would like to say: If we actually reject this proposal from the F today, then because we bear responsibility for Austria, and also because there is unfortunately no alternative for God to the Socialist Group in the government at present – so sorry we do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Huber is a Koryphae compared to you!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] But for this, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, you yourself are responsible. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! One thing I would like to add to the conclusion. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Please continue! Don't stop!]] I think it is a great superiority by Dr. Randa, yes, I would like to say that almost a threat to politicians, if he finds out in a press release of today's day, that political debate is massively a pity to the bank Austria issue. I think this gentleman does not know what he has actually done in this whole matter. I believe that this man is also responsible, and therefore the Austrian People's Party calls for Dr Randa to resign from his post, that he at least be moved by those responsible to set his job free.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e11337	Ladies and gentlemen! The list of speakers is exhausted, so the debate is closed, and we are entering the voting procedure. I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the House to take their place. We shall now proceed to the vote. I'm asking for attention. We shall first proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Stadler and comrades on the establishment of an investigative committee. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Anschober and Mr Comrades on the setting up of an investigation committee on the following subject: Investigation of misbehaviour of organs of execution in the absence of detention or arrest of detention Pavlikowsky or Minister Rehak. Political responsibility for the inadequacy of cooperation between intelligence agencies, investigation agencies and justice. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e11424	The debate has not been called for nor has it been decided. We shall therefore vote on this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Anschober and Mr Comrades on the establishment of another committee of inquiry on the following subject: Examining the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free exit of the perpetrators concerning the murder of the then chairman of DPK-I Dr. Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou and his two confidants; in particular, whether and what instructions were given in view of the threats from Iran to "denominate the documents on the illegal Austrian arms supplies in the first Gulf War" – as claimed by the former President of Iran Bani-Sadr. This application has also been distributed in the meantime. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e11506	The debate has not been called for nor has it been decided. We therefore come to the vote. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. This application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00076_d7e11542	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in applications 471/A to 474/A. Questions 2506/J to 2545/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 11. It will be convened in writing on June 1997, 9 a.m. The sitting is closed.
