ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e2690	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you very warmly and open the 72. Meeting of the National Council. This was due to a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. The official minutes of the two previous meetings, dated 16 March, were published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. ==References== In April, the European Parliament's Directorate remained open and unrestrained and was deemed to be approved. For today's session as prevented, MEPs have been reported Dr. Preisinger, Rosenstingl, Aumayr, Dr. Hazelsteiner, Fink, Horngacher, Ing. Maderthaner, Dr. Puttinger, Sauer, Schwarzböck and Mag. Schreiner. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e2724	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Robert Elmecker has waived his mandate and that, in his place, Mr Deputies. Kurt Gassner was appointed to the National Council. Since the election is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make the fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will draw his attention to the words "I vow to do." I should therefore like to ask Mrs Applebeck, in her capacity as a writer, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e2748	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e2772	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e2800	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office issued a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of a member of the Federal Government as follows: Federal Minister for State Defence Dr. Fassleven is represented by Minister of Justice Dr. Michalek. – I would ask you to take note of this. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e2824	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e3037	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request that the written question 2347/J tabled at the beginning of today's meeting by Dr Schmidt and comrades to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning the damage to Austria's credibility by misdeeds in foreign policy in the conduct of the Kurds murder, in relations with Iran and in the NATO question be dealt with urgently. The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote at 3 p.m. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e3062	In addition, the representatives of Dr. Schmidt and Comrades, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an Examining Committee. The subject of this Committee of Inquiry may include: Examination of the responsibility of the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Justice, as well as the alleged illegal influence by political agents in connection with the investigations on the murders of Abdullah Ghaderi-Azar, Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou and Dr. Fadel Mahmud Rasoul on 13 March. July 1989 and the persecution of three of these serious suspects who, despite clear indications, were able to leave Austria unblemished. – In so far as the subject of the Committee of Inquiry is concerned. The debate has not been requested in the document before me. The time for the vote on the request to set up an investigation committee will be announced in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I am now interrupting the sitting by 3 p.m. After resumption of the negotiations, the urgent debate on written question 2347/J will take place.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e3101	I will resume the interrupted session and ask you to take the seats. I would like to begin by saying that I am going to vote on the request of the Liberal Forum for the establishment of an investigative committee to determine the political responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the so-called Kurds for which no debate has been requested, in the immediate follow-up to the urgent request for negotiation. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt, Hans Helmut Moser, partners in the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs on damage to the credibility of Austria through misdeeds in foreign policy in the conduct of the Kurdish murders, in relations with Iran and in the NATO question (2347/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e3143	In this sense, we have to deal urgently with written question 2347/J to Mr Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. As this urgent question has now been addressed to all Members, a reading by the scribe is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e3460	I give the floor to the first questioner, Mrs Dr Schmidt, on the grounds of the question. According to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure are scheduled for a speaking time of 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e3481	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to quote from the so-called "Mykonos" judgment of the Berlin Chamber Court – somewhat shortened: "The DPK-I was one of the most important objects of investigation (Iranian intelligence services), as a television interview of the Iranian Minister" and so on "contained. In order to silence this voice, Iran's political leadership decided not only to fight the leadership of DPK-I politically, but to liquidate it. The killing of the then chairman of the DPK-I Dr. Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou and two of his confidants on 13 March. July 1989 in Vienna as well as the here" – in Berlin – "decided action are the consequences of this decision. The red thread, which connects the events of Vienna and Berlin, is unmistakable." This judgment, as stated, originates from the 10th century. April of this year; so it is not yet a month old. It is therefore not only permissible, but also necessary, once again, to talk about all the events and circumstances associated with the murders of the Kurds, with the murder of three exiles in Vienna in 1989, not only to investigate and question them. It is necessary to clarify the circumstances and ask: What interest was there in clarifying these circumstances? Or was there no interest in bringing light into this dark? Or – that would be the highest level of increase – was there even an interest in not investigating these murders? Now you can apply: What is the meaning of all this today, after eight years?, especially when you recall a quote by the Advocate General Mayerhofer from the Ministry of Justice in 1992, who already said: "The Kurds are dead, the suspects are in Iran. And that's what it's all about." – Perhaps this question is also quite acceptable because most of the things that are being talked about today and that some politicians are trying to sell as great news were actually already known in 1989. However, I believe that it cannot be correct and must not be correct that a mistake that has once been made simply persists. And above all, it must not be right if this mistake continues if so many people, not only Austrians, are affected by a mistake, but also by people inside and outside of our territory, if there is still a chance of damage and if we want to avoid, above all, that these mistakes are committed again. – This is the meaning of such a debate today and for the future, until this matter is clarified. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] When you talk about mistakes, it is also about thinking about what can be mistakes at all: Do these errors mean inability to act – so to speak, lack of qualification, misestimation, all that is man-foundable, even if it is evil – or was it wanted "inability" that was demonstrated? Did you give in to a pressure? If it was, why did you give in to a pressure? Who gave up? Who gave up? Were our previous and present relations with Iran, which we maintain at the diplomatic level, a mistake? Are they falsely stored – or isn't the biggest mistake at all, all that we're talking about simply trying to cover up? I see, in all this, an incredible damage to the Republic, a damage that affects both inside and outside, a damage that is mainly caused by the way in which all these facts are dealt with. The cause of damage is all those who, although talking about putting clarity into the matter, do not put into question any measure that would be objectively appropriate to clarify. This begins with those parliamentarians who have so far not agreed to a request to set up an investigation committee, which will probably not be accepted again today. Even the chairman of the Committee on Justice – one has to imagine the position behind this function – does, as I do today's press release, a committee of inquiry as a "politically motivated instrument" which could not be of any importance at all, and in advance gives a resolution. They are the cause of our Republic's damage. But this goes up to the Federal Chancellor, to the Vice-Chancellor and to the Federal President. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Now we're on the case!]] I can't hear your sayings anymore if you all say you're interested in a complete investigation, but at the same time, sit down. They have toothless instruments. The Foreign Minister is one of those who were not even willing to use a toothless instrument, namely the internal revision in his ministry, because he found it was all clear anyway. – This is the unbearable thing for me, whereby the credibility of our rule of law, the credibility in the assessment of those who act, the credibility of politics is not only put at risk, but willfully destroyed. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I would like to make a point to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, which is why... – It is about the Committee of Inquiry, not about the facts themselves, but about dealing with them. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But this is the smallest girl!]] The President of the Federal Government often uses enough to be a kind of moral authority. But then, if he is suspected that he has not acted correctly, if he is suspected of being pressured and has passed on this pressure, he must have the greatest interest in removing this suspicion if he is not! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] If he does not articulate this interest, then he does damage this country alone by its function. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Pure Polemik!]] I wonder what to do with it. Is it a political investigation committee for you? Are your calls to the President of the Federal Republic that he should call anyone into the matter, polemic – or do you seriously mean it? If you're serious, you'll have to admit that to me! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The President-in-Office of the Council is not voting here. It is up to you to vote on a committee of inquiry. But if we talk about a moral authority, it would probably be appropriate to throw it into the scales, especially if you are self-affected. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You lost to him! That's your problem!]] – That was the most ridiculous call I have heard for a long time. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But striking!]] If I speak of inability because the chairman of the judicial committee gives the resolution from the outset and says that it was all right, then I must also remind you that the contradictions of the acting persons were already on the 14th. In July 1989, that is to say, one day after the murders, after the invasion after the shooting channels had been verified, it was possible to conclude, on its own, that Mr Sahraroodi's statements were not correct. – However, it has been treated as a "gear" until the end. ==References== In July 1989, four days after these murders, police vice-president Marek expressed concern and wondered that there was no arrest warrant. Finally, there was a warrant against Bosorgian, and a few days later – that is incomprehensible for me – the release of Mr. Sahraroodi with all honours took place. This must also be said today after the relevant files have been disclosed. It can't be true that he was treated as a witness until then and that you call it "correct", although he even refused his statement in the hospital. But even if you think that the inability of the officials acting at the time is present, you must already ask: What was the point of contacts between officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, officials from the Ministry of Justice – up to the Minister – and the Security Authority? I claim that it is more than credible that in these contacts, the pressure that is rightly assumed to Iran, from my point of view, has been passed on to the pressure to carry out the investigations more reticently. If we ask why such a pressure has been taken up by the Austrian side, there are two patterns of explanation for this. One would be – only theoretically – that of economic interests. This is a pattern of behaviour, which is always a matter of concern when it comes to economic relations with countries whose human rights violations are evident, because otherwise the market would be left to others. And in this context, the statement of an economic chamberman is not insignificant, he said: It may already be that the disturbed relationship between Iran and Germany and Denmark could now benefit Austria. This seems to me to be a fitting mosaic in an unsympathetic and, as I believe, more than a questionable picture. It is also unacceptable to suspect economic interests in this context when looking at the entire foreign policy of Austria. Austria was the first Western country to send in 1984 a foreign minister – it was Erwin Lanc of the SPÖ – to Iran. And Austria was also the first Western country to visit an Iranian foreign minister since 1979. – This is quite a ground on which some thrive. However, I do not want to go so far as to say that this pressure has been taken up from purely economic interests, but I am willing to admit that it was perhaps the concern that some Austrians could happen, both in Austria and Iran. I would like to admit that, but I do not think it justified. It is already incredibly difficult to answer the question of how far to yield acts of terror so as not to endanger the lives of other innocents. This is a question on which one could hold philosophical excursions. I do not envy a politician who, at one moment or another, has to choose either for one hour or for the other. I believe that this is one of the most difficult decisions of a politician; one must be aware of it. But if it is already difficult to answer such a question under the pressure of a terrorist act, then one has to deal much more sensitively with the prelude of terror. Then we must concentrate all our efforts on not giving in to such pressure in advance. But at that time, there was certainly no such terrorist situation for Austrians. That this was threatened, I think, is possible, but what kind of rule of law do you, if you submit in the first run-up, willingly deliver yourself by saying: I'm sure it's safe!Unknown term type: "%s".? It is important to consider the way a country is going, the way in which such a country's policy path has a bad effect if it is to become a legitimate measure of policy. I think, above all, that the result – the result that led to the murders in Vienna and above all to the murders in Berlin – shows how wrong, how seriously wrong was dealt with the rule of law and morality. It is remarkable how different this approach was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Interior. It is somehow significant that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which - I am saying this quite clearly as an injunction - was acting in a mixture of economic interests and the so-called state reason. I would like to stress the word "so-called" three times, because it would be a very misused term in such a context. The Ministry of Justice – which a journalist has formulated very well – saw itself as a "willful executioner", and the police authorities are used to discipline anyway. This is also significant: These people are used to acting disciplineally, not contradicting and not questioning. What is specified has to be fulfilled. This is the spirit that is behind it and that has led to this result. That is why, in the light of the consequences, we should have become wiser, more open, more ready to reveal everything today. This is the massive damage to our credibility, as if it were not necessary to talk about it again: from Mrs Fekter to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, so to speak, we have the full range. If you think everything was all right, let us have a committee of inquiry. It must also be in your interest to restore the credibility of this state, the credibility of political decision-makers, officials and the administration! We want our citizens to have confidence in this administration and in this policy. Why don't you do anything about it? If you believe that you have nothing to hide, then allow such an investigation committee to prove that indeed! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] If I speak of the fact that the credibility of politics is at stake, I would also like to criticise Iran for its current foreign policy. I mean, the procedure, on the 11th. In April, EU ambassadors were ordered back to their own country and two weeks later they wanted to send back a wrong one. In the main committee, we have put forward a request for a three-stage plan, a three-stage plan which is intended to allow critical dialogue, but under certain conditions, even under the minimum condition that Iran is willing to cooperate when it comes to clarifying murders. The next step would be to conduct a critical dialogue. If Iran is not willing to do so, it would be an alibi action that would be worthless. Then one must move on to the next step, namely to economic sanctions – and finally to the termination of diplomatic relations. How do you want to change something in this world if you are not at all willing to even set a single act that is noticeable to the other country? That is why I criticise, as did Austria itself, both within the EU and within the EU. We should have had an interest in acting differently there in order to achieve what has now happened – however, on the path of Iran, for which Germany and Denmark are now undesirable. Suddenly, we couldn't send the ambassadors. That was a witness to poverty! That's what I wanted to say! Foreign Minister! With regard to the credibility of our country, I would like to make two points quickly, although the focus of our question is on the subject of the Committee on Inquiry. If Austria wants to be credible and predictable – even in its foreign policy – then it cannot speak with two tongues, then it cannot carry out two different types of foreign policy. It is not a question of persuading your head and thinking that you can go anywhere and damage the reputation of Austria insofar as the line you represent is carried only by a minority in this House. I demand that you first vote with your government partner and that you inform Parliament before taking such far-reaching steps. This is necessary for the credibility of our country! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] On the question of the credibility of our country, it seemed necessary to us to make the last point. You are not responsible for this, Mr Foreign Minister. It is about the suicide of a person who has left documents in which he raises serious accusations against members of the government and against the filtration of economics and politics. I think it is necessary to draw consequences from it so that such accusations cannot arise at all – whether they apply or not. The rules of play and the framework conditions should be designed in such a way that policies from the economy, in particular from the banking sector, should withdraw. That is why we want to know from you, Mr Foreign Minister: How did you get introduced to the Council of Ministers – if I may use this old-fashioned word – to put something in motion on this question? How much are you willing to extend any measures that may be taken to your areas – to those dominated by the ÖVP? Or here, too, is it just about criticizing others, but keeping their own style of play? All of this is related to the rule of law and credibility of Austria. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] You have the opportunity today to contribute to their restoration! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e3633	In response to the urgent question, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e3654	Thank you, Mr President. – Ladies and gentlemen! You have asked me 60 questions, but you will understand that at the beginning I would like to try to highlight the environment a little so that you do not stick to the details alone. After that, I will try to address the 60 questions, although some of them certainly do not concern the field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, you have already admitted this in your own address. I shall nevertheless try to make a comprehensive, as good as possible, comment on this. The Kurdish problem is a painful chapter of human history. The Kurds are a people currently scattered across four states: Syria, Iran, Iraq and Turkey. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: In certain minds this is something beautiful, a kind of multicultural society!]] They have been fighting for autonomy for decades, for their own state – sometimes by force free, but sometimes by force together. There have been some contacts between governments and Kurd leaders. The latter have the problem that, as a rule, they are not entirely in agreement with each other, but rather a relatively fragmented grouping. Such a conversation took place on 13 May. ==References====External links== This was a so-called conservative, that is, not an official conversation. So no one officially knew anything about it. I say this so clearly in this House because immediately after the murders the question was asked why the Austrian security authorities could not better protect this meeting. The answer is very easy: Because it was a confidential meeting that no one knew about. The Iranian Embassy has then even claimed that it would not have been informed – of course you can discuss this for a long time. The then Kurd leader, the chairman of the Kurdistan Democratic Party, Dr. Ghassemlou, as well as two of his employees or confidants met with three Iranian negotiators. It was not officially signaled that these three Iranian negotiators had negotiated with Ghassemlou with knowledge and with a certain authorization of the Iranian government. We know the result: It ended in a bloodbath. The three Kurds – one of them was shot by the way by the Austrian citizen – were shot. Of the three suspects – as we know today, since the "crime" has now been read up to the last page – the first has fled immediately. He was never tangible and immediately left in an unknown way. The second was first seriously injured in the hospital and officially left after his release – I'll come back later on – and the last one claimed he wasn't daily, he would have brought food. In the beginning, the suspicion of crime was not given directly, either, because he eventually led the police to the crime scene. However, then he fled to the message, probably also stayed there for a few months, and then – also in an unexplained way – left. This story is certainly not a delight for the Austrian authorities and for Austrian politics, but: All these things, all these circumstances, have already been discussed in great detail eight years ago and have stood in all the newspapers. I have read through such files – they do not have all of that at present. [[The speaker shows the thickness of the files with thumbs and pointing fingers]] All the notes of the file, which are played as "highest confidential" to the newspapers today and course there, have already been printed in the facsimile at that time. The court act is freely accessible or at least very wide accessible, everything is known. Not a single fact that has appeared since then is new. New is one, namely, the trial of a German court. The Chamber Court in Berlin examined a similar case in 1992 when three Kurds were also murdered in a Greek restaurant. There the three suspects could be arrested. It began under major security measures – 3,000 security forces have made this process possible at all – a minute search. After months of negotiations, witnesses, many evidences and evidence of evidence, the Court of First Instance passed a judgment. So an independent court has passed a judgment that is most remarkable. This judgment has, in essence, proved the developments to the highest Iranian head of state. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: I read that!]] The proof of evidence shall read as follows: "The most important objects of education... belonged to the DPK-I, as a result of a television interview by the Iranian Minister for Information and Security.... In order to silence this voice, Iran's political leadership decided not only to fight the leadership of DPK-I politically, but to liquidate it. The killing of then chairman Ghassemlou and two of his confidants... in Vienna, as well as the killing here – in Berlin – "condemned action are the consequences of this decision. The red thread, which connects the events of Vienna and Berlin, is unmistakable." The EU has responded immediately. Since this judgment was foreseeable, we have already discussed it in the circle of EU foreign ministers – most confidential and not public – and with 10. April 1997, i.e. the day on which the ruling of the Court of First Instance was published, prompted the consuls to recall immediately for consultation purposes, in order to discuss Europe's future relations with Iran. Then came the Parliament's main committee – you yourself pointed out this discussion. There was a broad majority in favour of a common line, namely that the Austrian government representative – i.e. I – should take the following measures in the relevant European Union bodies: First: Full EU solidarity; common action by the Union, particularly on the return of the Austrian Head of Mission to Tehran. Secondly, Review further measures against Iran. However, steps should be avoided that could result in further escalation or the termination of any basis of conversation with Iran, as a complete isolation of Iran would lead to further radicalisation which is not in the interest of the European Union. Thirdly, Enforcement of a arms embargo and designation of those Iranian persons suspected of carrying out intelligence activities. ==References====External links== April 1997, there was a long discussion at EU level on the further process. I am looking for fairness and justice in the matter, because what we – and, as I would like to stress, the Austrian representative in particular – have achieved there goes beyond what was discussed in the EU's main committee of Parliament. We were pretty alone with that. It is relatively easy to talk here or also in the main committee about what to do. Among the 15 EU members, Austria and one, two other member countries – certainly Germany and Great Britain – were quite the only ones on further corridors. And we have fought for a stronger substantial decision to be taken. It was I who forced the whole thing not to experience a silent funeral in the political committee, but to be discussed in the Council of Ministers and enriched with substantial decisions. I therefore need not be taught by anyone about human rights and political culture, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This statement by the EU Foreign Ministers has substance, and I can also make it available to the parliamentary clubs. Before I traveled to Luxembourg, I made the effort to contact all the political groups, and I told them that although I expect that we will remain alone with our demands, I still want to try everything. – I have therefore all been fully informed and do not expect to get roses for this. This is my political responsibility. But I have informed all the political groups and believe that what we have achieved is far more than what was expected at the beginning. – We have ensured that the "critical dialogue" will be terminated. We have ensured that there will be no bilateral ministerial visits to Iran or to Iran. We have confirmed the arms embargo. No more visas will be issued for Iranian citizens who are in intelligence or security operations. This means that Austria must announce the visa agreement, the visa agreement with Iran, because otherwise such measures are not possible. There will be concerted action against Iranian agents. There will also be monitoring of political directors so that the internal situation in Iran is really observed. We have invited the associated countries, the Central and Eastern European countries, Cyprus and the EFTA countries to take these measures. Iran's reaction was sobering. I, of course, took precedence over EU solidarity on this issue, based on the decision of the main committee, but I also had to remember in the ministerial round that the return of ambassadors could prove to be a mistake. The reaction of Iran, in which the return of the Danish and German ambassadors was called "undesirable", actually confirmed my assessment of the situation. Therefore, even before the Dutch Presidency called for the ambassadors not to be sent down, Austria was the first country that, of course, declared itself in solidarity with all 15 Member States and left the ambassador in the country. I think this principle is correct. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The court in Berlin – which I would like to say quite openly at this point – has boldly judged, that is not a question at all. It has made it clear that there should not be any interdependence of state – terrorism. The European Union's solidarity action shows that the 15 Member States have also understood this signal and want to try to put it into practice. We will not, even if the ambassadors are not there, stop us from insisting that Iran be called on publicly and clearly to respect human rights. We will repeatedly demand that the security of Salman Rushdie or justice be guaranteed for Faras Sarkouhi. We will not be prevented from further demanding the rights of religious minorities, in particular the Baha’i religious community, a particularly peaceful group that is bitterly suppressed in Iran. We will not stop insisting that Iran also plays a constructive role in the Middle East peace process, and we will insist that Iran completes its activities against Iranian opposition at home and abroad. I know that many forces in Iran also see this as similar. Faith They do not believe that Iran is as monolithic as the political leadership is trying to make it. All the measures taken by the European Union and Austria are designed to strengthen Iran's moderate forces in this way, together with us and with Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Without or against Iran, no lasting peace will be possible in this region. If you want peace in Afghanistan, then Iran must play. Do not underestimate the growing importance of Iran in the Islamic Central Asian states! Do not forget that in Lebanon only a certain calming has been possible with the involvement of Iran, especially the Hezbollah Group. In all these areas, I think the talks with the constructive forces are important and I know that – I am saying this quite openly and expressly – a sense with my friend and predecessor Alois Mock, who has always forced this way, namely, clear language to the outside, while at the same time strengthening the moderate forces in the fundamentalist countries. It was he who first started the dialogue between Christianity and Islam in 1993. There were, of course, not the political but the intellectual and religious leaders there, of whom one can assume that they have reputation, but also together something for the 21st century. ==References====External links== In 14 days I will be happy to continue this dialogue in a second conference in Vienna. I want to thank Alois Mock for that. If, in your speech, perhaps some of the impressions were made that Austrian government members had made a common case with state terrorists, I ask the House to understand that I must reject these accusations to the public, whether it concerns Alois Mock, Egmont Foregger or Franz Löschnak. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Then let us examine!]] The best proof that Austria does not make a common cause with the state terrorism, wants to do it and will never do it is that, in the present day, Austria is doing more courageous and sharper than some of those who can more easily judge that we have exercised full solidarity with the German and Danish colleagues and that we have finally achieved more than perhaps some have assumed at the beginning. We want to clarify – no question at all. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! Please take note of the following: There are several ways to come to a restless and comprehensive Enlightenment. I respect your wish for a parliamentary forum. But there are other opinions in this House. Further parallels should also be noted: In Berlin, too, not a parliamentary body has clarified the independent judicial system. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: With us you let the perpetrators run!]] Mrs Langthaler! I would first wait on your behalf for what the investigation of the independent judicial system, which is available to the entire file material of the ministries, will bring out. All five political groups will receive the reports without delay, and you have every right, of course, to evaluate the results politically as you wish. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: We also want to see the documents!]] Of course! You'll get all the reports, that's no question at all. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you are skeptical of me, allow me to read a letter that may be of particular interest to you. I cannot contradict the allegation that, among all the ministries concerned, total consensus was to send the Kurdish murderers out of the country as quickly as possible. Of course, there was no agreement of this kind, as always, between the officials concerned or, as you think, between the heads of the department. As far as my own minister is concerned, I am sure that Dr. Mock would have tolerated or even arranged such an unlawful procedure – and I would also include Franz Lösnak. Reality is less romantic than such a conspiracy theory. "In the short time that two of the three suspected murderers were tangible to the Austrian authorities, the independent investigating judge could not decide to issue a warrant for murder." - That's it. Erich Schmid, ambassador out of service. At that time, political director, today foreign policy adviser and district councillor of the Liberal Forum. It would actually be the first one to give you arguments that these accusations are persistent. [[Ironic cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, to answer the 60 different questions. 1. Question: When did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs become aware of the murders on the 13th? July for the first time informed? – The answer: the next day. 2. Question: When did the Iranian Embassy first come into contact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and what requests was made? - Answer: on 14. 7. The concerns were information about the place of stay and the existence of the disappeared Ajvadi – that is the third culprit who has been away from the beginning – visit to the injured Sahraroodi in the hospital and release the injured Bosorgian from police custody. 3rd. Question: How often has the Iranian Embassy or the Iranian Foreign Office contacted the Minister or other representatives between July and the end of 1989?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e3802	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It is, of course, the right to read all the requests. I'm just paying attention to this: They are not obliged to do so because the questions have been distributed in writing, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. But if you want, you can of course read it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e3817	I thought that this would make a little clearer what the question refers to. But I'll cut back anyway. ==References== Question: According to my research – which may be incomplete – after what was documented in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with us, there has been 16 contacts over this period, and not with the Minister – never with the Minister! – but with various department heads, section heads, political director et cetera. And, of course, there has also been frequent contacts between the Austrian Embassy in Tehran and the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The 4th. Question: Did Iran's representatives demand that the arrest warrant against Bosorgian be lifted and Sahraroodi and Bosorgian are allowed to leave? – I am allowed to clarify a bit again, because this is always mixed: Sahraroodi and Bosorgian. True is: ==References====External links== July, there was no warrant against him at all. And that also has a reason: The man was badly hurt. I've got the newspaper reports. I will only read the following report from the "Kronen Zeitung": "The fourth man" – that was Sahraroodi – "was unlikely to be lucky. A projectile fired against his head was distracted by the teeth and left the cheek. Through the deep flesh wound, the murderers thought that the unconsciously broken victim was also dead, and fled after the massacre." So, within the first week, Sahraroodi could not immediately be identified as fellow perpetrators and until the departure did not have any suspicion of crime and therefore no arrest warrant existed... – Mr Moser, I suppose you will talk anyway. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Ask Minister Lösnak! That's not true!]] May I, without yelling now, continue my answer? I just want to explain why Sahraroodi doesn't have a warrant. There have also been no suspicions known to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Iranian desire to abolish the arrest warrant against Bosorgian – that is true – was presented in several talks in Vienna, but also in Tehran, especially in the period until mid-August 1989 by the Foreign Ministry. This too has been clearly demonstrated. In each meeting, the officials, whether political director, whether head of the department, or vice-president, pointed to the independence of justice and courts. I think this is the only possible reaction. Of course, there is the possibility that a foreign ambassador will come and announce his concerns, his complaints, and his threats. This must be rejected, and it must be pointed out that there is an independent judicial system on which no one, not even the internal or the foreign ministry, can influence. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This raises questions 6, 7 and 8: The Iranian side was in some cases referred to as the burden of relations on this matter. For example, the Iranian ambassador took on 20th. The Iranian people – this is the usual threat – are irritated by the Austrian media reports – because they are likely to have the Austrian media reports at present every day – and could be thrown into hostilities. The political director referred each time to the independence of the courts and referred Iranian statements about alleged anti-Iranian pressure to Austria. ==References== November – this was asked again later – a speaker from the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs told the Austrian managing director in Tehran that the matter could become out of control as soon as the subject of the police action in Vienna – that was the change of the Iranian Embassy – was known to the Iranian press. The head of the legal section in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs then informed the Iranian ambassador that such statements would seriously affect relations between the two countries. Iran would have a international responsibility for the security of the Austrian Embassy in Tehran. In a single letter to Foreign Minister Velayati, Mr Mock specifically pointed out that the Austrian judicial authorities would carry out their activities strictly on the basis of the laws and in full independence from the administration. The Federal Ministers for the Interior and Justice have been routinely informed, of course, for information purposes on Iranian statements. No influence has taken place on the aforementioned resorts. On the question 9: Did the then Federal Minister or Secretary General Kle Stil give instructions? – The clear answer is: No, no, no, Question 10: Was there any official or unofficial threats in any way? Here's what it says: Was the Noricum affair mentioned? – Clear answer: No, Mrs Schmidt. 11th@item: inlistbox ==References====External links== In July, an agreement between the Foreign Office and the Iranian Ambassador concluded that Bosorgian would be transferred to the police, but would you like to return? – The truth looks something different again: ==References====External links== In July, it was announced that Bosorgian was urgently in need of further consent. As a prerequisite for such an agreement, the Iranian Embassy has demanded the return of the said person to the message. As a result, political director Schmid – well-known to you – asked if this was possible. The Ministry of the Interior has given its approval. It was communicated to the Iranian Embassy. This condition was obviously also accepted in the realization that otherwise Bosorgians could not be surveyed. The fact of the arrest warrant has, of course, been communicated to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, there is also a clear provision in the Rules of Procedure that such consultation is possible and that a warrant can be withdrawn for a short period of time. – Questions 11 and 12. On the question 13: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not provided any escorts at all. The Iranian ambassador has indicated that there are threats of murder against Sahraroodi, against whom no arrest warrant is in place at the time, and due to these threats of murder, there has been a corresponding protection to enable him to take the plane into Iran. Question 14: There is no additional information available at all. On the contrary. ==References====External links== For example, the then Minister of the Interior – that is later, after the exit of Sahraroodi – reported that there were no suspicions against Sahraroodi, according to the Ministry. This one has always been heard as a witness, not as a suspect of crime. His consent would not have been contrary. The departure was approved by the competent examiner. So there is no point in saying that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would have provided a special VIP escort. Question 15: Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs been informed of other ministries? – There was, of course, ongoing contact. We have been informed about the investigations to the extent that this has been necessary for the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We were there, where necessary, the intermediaries between the Iranian ambassador and the other authorities. In addition, there was no information. ==References====External links== A specific meeting between the ministers Lösnak and Foregger, Klestil and senior officials was held on July: There is no information on such a meeting, neither in the Ministry of the Interior nor in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think that's a mystification of your research. On the question 17: There were other meetings between 13 and 22. - July between ministers? - We don't have any information about it. I don't think so either, because it was vacation time. There has also been no Council of Ministers during this period. In any case, there was nothing with us and, according to demand, nothing in the Ministry of the Interior. On the question 18 concerning the so-called coordination meeting between the ministers Lösnak and Foregger, Klestil and other senior officials on 28 October. In July and on the question of whether Kletil issued a certain language scheme at the time: I have looked through this act exactly, and the word "language control" is not at all present. [[call at the Liberal Forum.]] Not in the content either, Mr Deputies. There was a coordination meeting. It was a preparatory meeting because the two ministers Lösnak and Foregger had planned a press conference at the time, and of course there was a discussion in preparation. I can read to you what was said there: "Federal Minister Lösnak notes that the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs had not intervened in any way for the abolition of the arrest warrant against Bosorgian. Ambassador Schmid points out that his commitment to the Embassy after Bosorgians had been granted to Bosorgians only after the agreement with the Federal Minister of the Interior and Court had been reached in this regard. The Secretary-General Kle Stil makes it clear to those present that there was no intervention or pressure on the part of the Foreign Office against other Austrian bodies, nor was there any threat to Austrians in Iran. This is confirmed by all the meeting participants and taken note of by Federal Minister Lösnak." Afterwards in the press conference, all the questions you are asking here have also been raised, and it has been very, very fairly reported on the situation at that time. For example, the then Minister of the Interior explained: When we at the Ministry of the Interior thought that Bosorgian needed to get back together again, it was necessary to turn on the foreign office. The representatives of the Federal Ministry have assured us that the assurance of the Iranian Embassy did not take place before the arrest warrant was lifted. Foregger commits. The question of a journalist whether the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed concern about the threat of Austrians in Iran is expressly against Löschnak. And so on. I'm just saying that. So this is the "great" coordination session, where there have been "language arrangements". - Not at all! A press conference was prepared, and there was quite reasonable and fair report on the basis of the file. You then ask four very delicate questions with questions 20 to 23 because you address Council of Ministers protocols which are not available in this form. I'm allowed to explain here so that this is also dedressed from the mystery: There is a preliminary meeting before each Council of Ministers meeting. This is a political meeting in which the clubmen participate and where the current state of play is informed. This is not a question of the government, therefore there is no question of enforcement, and there is also no authorized protocol on it. The Council of Ministers subsequently has an authorised decision-making protocol. This is actually outside of the Rules of Procedure, because I am not entitled to now authentically explain something for the Council of Ministers meetings of that time. It is also eight years ago. At the time, I was a short minister of the economy, I was able to talk to some of the participants in these Council of Ministers and I can only give you a subjective account of what has been discussed there. The matter was discussed three times, on 25 May. ==References== ==References== November. – The one question is wrong, because on 18 November 1885, the first question was not met. There was no Council of Ministers meeting on July. – At the first meeting at the end of July, I was reminded by the Minister of the Interior – but this is my subjective report, which may be quite different – that the investigations of the police have arrived at a dead end. There is no suspicion of crime against the injured. He was initially in the hospital and was then brought to Iran with a liner. There is much to it that the Iranian message is involved with the two others. The Ministry of the Interior has tried to execute arrest warrants that have failed with the judge, and this has led to the search. – That was my memory of the report given by the Minister of the Interior at the time. A month later, the Minister of Justice reported briefly. He once again confirmed that at the time – please, at the end of August it was! – the injured – that was Sahraroodi – was not suspected because he was seriously damaged because he had provided for the police's understanding and because a shot-hand test with him was negative. He was considered a victim and not a perpetrator. The public prosecutors now consider whether they should not even withdraw the arrest warrant against Bosorgian, and the sixth participant has at all been deprived of the access of justice. In the final analysis, the Commission concluded that: The former Minister of Justice, Foregger, briefly reports that a new opinion suggests that the previous considerations do not apply. There is no insignificant suspicion against all three participants at the time of the meeting. I hope that I have been able to answer your question in a way that is quite correct and in accordance with the rules of business. I cannot help anything at all on Question 24, because there is no such tape protocol. We have not intervened in any way to break down a procedure. The same applies to question 25. The Ministry of the Interior has always been informed about all these points – I have already mentioned that – but without pressure, as far as it has been quite reasonable. On questions 27 and 29, to what extent one could get to Bosorgian, who was still in the Iranian Embassy: It was repeatedly pointed out to the Iranian side that there was no legal basis for the stay of Bosorgians in the Embassy and that he should submit to the judicial authorities to clarify the accusations made against him. Further steps, such as storm on the message or intrusion into the message, are opposed to international considerations. On the question 27: Such considerations were the responsibility of the competent safety authorities and not of the BMA. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You have left question 25!]] I said we told the Ministry of the Interior. That was the question. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: What then?]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: How does the Iranian Embassy react?]] – May I take a look at that again? I've put away the one question now. I would like to look at this once again. Question 30: Is it true that Secretary-General Kle St. Did the Ministry of the Interior request a presentation of the matter on November? - We don't know. I have already given an opinion on Question 31. These were these talks with our businessmen in Iran, where it was mentioned in particular that the Iranian people did not understand that things were going to be out of control and so on. This was of course also communicated to the Ministry of the Interior, but in no way with the note: Attention, you have to do something! On question 32: Complaints and threats have, as has been said, been communicated to the other department, since knowledge of the overall picture has also been of importance to the investigating authorities. Mostly this, please, has been communicated orally. So there's no great file or letter traffic or anything like that. On question 33: Has it been after the 22nd century? July – leave Sahraroodis – contacts between the representatives of the various ministries, in particular between Kletil and the Director General for Public Security Danzinger? – Of course, there have been these contacts. The Secretary-General of the External Office has regular contact, regardless of whether there is any pending or not, with the Director-General for Public Security and corresponding high-ranking persons from other departments. On question 34: Is the instructions of the Director-General for Public Security to carry out the surveillance only "severely" and the decision of 5 June 1989? In December 1989, to further reduce security, in connection with contacts with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? It must be added that the Iranian ambassador has shown himself quite excited, because, of course, the conversion of the Iranian message has been very unpleasant. A minister and two Members of Parliament have been stopped with a gun in front of us, and the embassy building has been irradiated by headlamps day and night – that was unpleasant. The police put themselves on the wall to figure out if you see the suspect. Of course, all these things have been presented in the discussions with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and have then been properly forwarded to the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior has reduced the guard after some time, because it cannot be maintained for a longer period of time. At the end, however, there were still six officials working there. We have, above all, the suspicion that the suspect Bosorgian has long left at the time the guard was reduced. – That was question 34. On question 35: We don't know that because there are no rumors. We suspect that this has been the case before. On question 36: Of course, as soon as we have heard, we have pointed out the serious suspicions that Bosorgian has had. It has the then Secretary General Kletyl, which is perhaps also very interesting and brings his role into a very positive light, during his visit on 28 May. In June 1990, it was important for Bosorgian to stand up to the Austrian judicial system. However, this was rejected by the Iranian authorities. On the question 37: I think I have answered very clearly with No that any member of the Federal Government or an official has deliberately or unconsciously contributed to the escape of the murderers. On the question 38: This is an interesting question as to whether we see a relationship between human rights and the supposedly increased economic relations. – Madam President, I would really ask that, if one expresses such a huge suspicion that, for an Austrian minister, a senior official, or whoever is less important to human rights than economic relations, at least some employees have the real facts raised – if one does not assume that there are moral people, even in the case of the government groups. If you were to do this, you would find the following facts: In 1990, we had 3.8 billion exports, in 1991, in 1992, there were 4 billion, in 1993 only more than 3.3 billion, 1994: 2.7 billion and 1995: 1.7 billion. We have imported 1.2 billion, and this number has fallen to say and write 458 million schilling today. – So please, to talk about a great economic relationship of Austria at 1.7 billion Schilling exports last year, and that with an external trade volume of 1 200 billion schillings, is simply ridiculous! So if you don't believe in the morals of the Austrians, then you have the intelligence. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: The numbers!]] That's verifiable. All the figures I call have the terrible advantage or disadvantage, as always you want to see, that they are relatively easily verifiable. [[Abg. Oils: 89!]] Question 39: As already mentioned, Austria's request for legal aid to Iran from spring 1990 was repressed by the visit of the Secretary-General, Kletyl, who went his own way and tried to make his way to the car, but unfortunately he bit on granite during the Iranian leadership. On question 40: On his visit to the United Nations this year, in 1989, Alois Mock pointed out that he wrote a letter, he sent a telegram, of course, each time these questions were the subject of the talks. Question 41: Please excuse me, but it is really hard for me to investigate now which state visits did not address the Kurds. I assume, in the light of the case-law, that all these questions have been discussed sufficiently and in a reasonable and worthy form. The same applies to the question 42, which role the human rights situation plays in Iran. Each time, both bilaterally and in the critical dialogue on the part of the European Union, this is mentioned. On question 43: I believe that in my words of entry I have pointed out the conclusions I draw from the Mykonos judgment. On question 44: I see no threat to Austria. Austria is also not seriously threatened by such measures. But I see a real danger to development in Iran by such measures, which strengthens my policy that we should seek dialogue with the moderate forces rather than with the fundamentalists. On question 45: Please do not be naive, neither in the request nor in my answer. I believe that the catalogue of measures we have launched from the European Union is an important and positive signal in this direction, because it is better that the whole of the European Union reacts in this way and not a single country. On question 46: I am clear to you that I do not consider economic sanctions to be an appropriate means. Experiencedly, they meet the weakest circles of the population and certainly not necessarily those who can judge it, regardless of whether they are in the worldly or religious leadership of a country. On question 47: I believe that this question has already been answered by the EU's sanctions decision. Question 48: I have already mentioned why EU Foreign Ministers decided to return. Above all, we stopped them immediately when the question of the Danish and German ambassador – question 51 – was raised by Iranian side. Question 49: In fact, it is a rather abstract remark from Velayati that he called the intention not to impose economic sanctions a great defeat by the USA because the US has neither negotiated with us nor suffered a defeat. I even believe that we have achieved a wide-ranging approach to the line between the United States and the European Union – certainly not in economic sanctions, but in the political assessment I believe it is. Question 50: I believe that we must try to further relate all these points at every level, as I said at the outset. I simply do not take note of this, and we will not let go of it to remind Iran. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On question 52: Of course, it's very easy to ask about it in retrospect. After that, I think it's clearer. I have warned against that, but I think it was right to maintain EU solidarity. But, I think, we have responded correctly immediately, and this has not made a mistake. I even think that it is an additional signal to Iran that any measure or any false step of Iran is clearly answered by the Union by means of a solidarity measure. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Question 51 you left out!]] To be honest, on the reasons why Iran has called two ambassadors, the Danish and the Germans, undesirable and not others, I really cannot give any information. My networks in the Iranian leadership are too close to that. We have no information at all, so I cannot answer this question at the best. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But should you think that the Austrian ambassador has been awarded a special benevolence, then I would answer this question with No, because in certain interlocutors in the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we were even told that the Austrian Embassy in Tehran is being critically seen – because of our cultural institution, because there are Iranian oppositions going out and coming in. So this suspicion is really unfair, and I would like to reject it very clearly at this point. On questions 53 to 57: Of course, this has nothing to do with the question of execution. I'd like to explain to you what this is all about. I was born on 24 May. In April, he was invited to a SHAPE meeting at the NATO headquarters in Mons. This meeting is not a round of negotiations. High-ranking personalities from all over the world are invited to attend a seminar – in this case through the new NATO. With me, Henry Kissinger, former American Foreign Minister, and Yuri Baturin, today's chairman of the Russian Defence Council, were invited. So that I can say it quite clearly: Of course, each of these invited guests is personally invited. He does not refer to the position of his government, but he expresses his opinion in a confidential circle. That's why you're invited. You may believe that Henry Kissinger did not vote with today's administration – that would be a bit strange too – and you can also believe that Juri Baturin did not vote with the Duma. There were some very interesting remarks and also options included. It is therefore an important conference, attended by political and military leaders from NATO countries and from all the participating countries of the "Partnership for Peace". I have not asked for Austria to be invited, contrary to your acceptance in the request. If you have read the text of my speech, you must admit that in this context the word "Austria" does not fall at all – but you write it in the request. I have pointed out, and this is objectively indisputable, that there is an ever-increasing convergence between the European Union, the Western European Union, the OSCE and NATO. Why else, do you think, within the European Union, at the current Intergovernmental Conference of six WEU countries, the proposal is to achieve a complete merger of the EU and the Western European Union within a reasonable period of time? My question at the Intergovernmental Conference is always: Is that even in line with NATO? Is that what NATO wants? Has it been discussed with the Americans? What is the result of institutional consequences? – I believe that such a question is important and necessary. If these various institutions grow together more and more, then it will inevitably result in the need to think more than just until the NATO summit in Madrid. So it wasn't about official positions. I have also made it clear where the line of government is and what my personal view is, and I believe that the unit has met with great interest. You can be sure that the Austrian Federal Government is also speaking with one voice here. We have only agreed in these days – today we also reaffirmed it in the Council of Ministers – that we are planning to start before the summer, with the preparation of the report to Parliament. That does not mean that the end is fixed, but I believe that the initial security policy debate is reasonable and, if we are honest, is also being conducted quite objectively. Your comments and contributions are welcome, as are all the other political groups and, of course, those of the Austrian public. I just think that we should not be afraid of such a discussion at all. You are right to welcome a joint opinion from the Federal Government on this issue, and you can be sure that at the end of the day, I hope, in autumn, perhaps it will be a little later, that is not yet fixed, a joint opinion of the Federal Government will also be presented to Parliament. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On questions 58, 59 and 60: I can say very clearly: These are no questions at all related to the management of the Foreign Minister in any way. I'd like to express my personal opinion to you. The question whether at the Council of Ministers meeting on 29 October was to be held I can't answer the question in May. I was in Luxembourg with the mentioned Council of Ministers of the European Union. I've been informed. It briefed the Minister of Finance on Praschak's suicide and on the documents published to the public. There has been no relevant discussion about it, because the state, the federal government, the Republic is not in any way involved in this bank. That is why the government has not lost anything in this regard either. Today, 6th. May 1997, this was not a subject. The answer to the question of whether consequences were discussed in the Council of Ministers' meetings mentioned above is no. But I tell you – this is a little connected with the question 60 – that I have agreed with the Federal Chancellor, as early as 12th. January 1997, when I – I say this here in my capacity as party chairman of the People's Party – was the only one you have addressed to a party observer – the only one who has the subject of full privatisation and who has warned of some concentration at the time, in the 17 points that have then also become the basis of government work – thus the circle concludes – to include many of our concerns. First of these 17 points: The voting rights of the AVZ and the Wiener Holding are to be reduced to less than 25 percent. I believe that the municipality of Vienna, in particular with a trustee, who was also found and is now under contract, which you still have to contribute to. Second step, in your mind, only we have already demanded and enforced it in January: Issue of the 19 percent federal shares in Bank Austria in the widest possible distribution to private in 1997. Fifth point: Adjustment in the case of investment credit and control bank by issuing the CA shares less the GiroCredit shares and offering all the shares of the GiroCredit by the AVZ. The latter has already been done, and the adjustment of investment credit and control bank is still pending, confirmed by the Federal Chancellor and myself, must be made – the Minister of Finance will also take care of it. Point 14: The conversion of the Vienna Stock Exchange into a stock company with the participation of issuers, investors and banks is already in preparation, as at least 11 of the 17 points of the time are already enforced or in legislative preparatory work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that at the time you were one of those – as well as other political groups – who were somewhat underestimated by the dangers in this context and that at the time, together with the coalition partner, we found a right way towards comprehensive privatisation, which was directed towards freedom of guidance, independent banking supervision, towards independent stock exchange. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Schmidt]] [[Re-enlightenment to the ÖVP]] You can be sure that we all in this House - hopefully - will be watching that all these promises are also delivered.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4009	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for answering the urgent question. Notice of applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4031	Before we go into the debate, I should like to announce the following: First of all, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested that an investigation committee be set up on the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free departure of the perpetrators concerning the murder of the then chairman of the DPK-I Dr. Ghassemlou and his two confidants. There was no need to hold a debate on this. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on this request will also take place after the urgent question has been completed, following the vote on the Liberal Forum's already announced request. I would also like to say that Mrs Dr Helene Partik-Pabléund, Member of Parliament, is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Stadler according to § 33 para. 1 GOG requested that an investigation committee be set up to investigate further responsibility in connection with the failed persecution of the murderers of Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou, Fadel Rasoul and Abdullah Ghaderi-Azar in Vienna and with the escape of the further suspects of Ebergassing. Again, there was no need for a debate. According to § 33 para. The vote will also take place after this urgent question has been completed, following the just-announced request of the Greens. Finally, I announce that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested a Committee of Inquiry to examine political and legal responsibility in the context of 1.) with the appointment of management functions of banks in the public sphere. 2.) with political influence on the business activities of these banks, 3.) with the delivery of the Austrian Control Bank with regard to export financing and export guarantees and 4.) to be used with price agreement of the main Austrian commercial banks. In this context, there is also the request made by five Members to hold a debate on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure the debate will take place and then the vote will take place after all the votes have been taken on the applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry which are known to take place without debate. The order I have chosen corresponds to the timing of the receipt of the applications in question. Now we are going into the debate. I should like to point out that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. The overall speaking time per group is not more than 25 minutes. The first speaker in this debate is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. The speaking time is set to 10 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4097	Mr President. Federal Minister! The answer to our urgent question by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has actually been to me in the same way as it was then, in the way that in principle old-known facts have been re-explained, that not really has been addressed at the heart of this urgent question, namely the question of the political responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with the persecution of the Kurds and the assessment of the facts known to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why, knowing that the letter written by the former political director, Mr Schmid, we believe that we need a committee of inquiry. Only such a committee of inquiry can clarify the political responsibility as such. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, the Foreign Minister has begun very far-reachingly: with the presentation of the environment, with the political situation of the Kurds, and I regret that he has not really addressed the core of the Kurdish problem. He could have read this in the presentation of the "Mykonos" judgment. Federal Minister! I can explain this to you because it is related to the assessment of Iran's political governance. Here's what it says: The striving of the Kurds living in Iran for their own country brought this part of the population and the political organizations representing it, to which the DPK-I belonged, in opposition to the ruling regime, and therefore this ruling regime has also followed the leaders accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be blue-eyed, and I would be afraid if the intention of the Tehran leadership had not been known to our foreign ministry. And it would be worrying if today would be as if you didn't know. Then I would really be concerned about state security. I had hoped that the Federal Minister would give clear answers to the questions we have raised, and I regret – I can hardly hear it anymore – that he has declared again today: We are waiting for a report to be submitted by the Federal Government, and we are waiting for the courts to be examined. Ladies and gentlemen! All these are just excuses, because one is not really interested in a complete clarification of the events at the time, because one is commissioned by those of whom all know that they are not really able to clarify in this case, namely the prosecutors, the Ministry of Justice, because the public prosecutors themselves are bound by instructions, because these institutions themselves are involved. Once – and this becomes clear from the procedures – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice has played a key role, and therefore it is too fast to expect that those ministries that are involved and are stuck in the swamp until the neck... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why do you ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs if the Minister of Justice is responsible?]] Mr President, I should like to thank I'll come back to that. It is clear from the statement made by the Foreign Minister that there have been links with the Ministry of Justice that, through this rail, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, political pressure from Iran on the Republic of Austria has been exerted, that the contacts with the Ministry of Justice have then put the corresponding actions there. The executive has claimed that the Ministry of Justice has prevented the arrest warrants from being issued, on the basis of the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has passed on this pressure exerted by Iran to Austria. And the officials there have not issued arrest warrants, ladies and gentlemen. We believe that it is necessary to have complete clarity regarding these events. We believe that we have had the opportunity today, especially the Foreign Minister, to restore the credibility of our country both externally and internally. I regret that the Federal Minister did not take this opportunity. There is a need for action both in Parliament and in the Federal Government because we want our country's reputation and belief in the rule of law to be restored. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to fulfil your responsibilities as Members of Parliament, to fulfil your responsibilities with regard to the exercise of the control tasks in relation to execution and that you, especially the SPÖ colleagues, do not go into hostagery of the ÖVP. It is only because there is a corresponding federal board decision that you want and will then reject a request for the setting up of an investigation committee. I call on you to live up to your responsibilities as a Member of Parliament. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If not, then you will provide Parliament with a bear service, and this country has not deserved it. Ladies and gentlemen! For us, it's a fact: Political responsibility lies in the field of the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice. For us it is a fact that the Ministry of the Interior has carried out the surveys very neatly. There have been pans, that is obvious, but these pans were not such that the investigation of the matter could not have been carried out, but it is clear that the Ministry of the Interior wanted to have an appropriate warrant at a very early date, which the Ministry of Justice did not then grant. Ladies and gentlemen! For us too, the fact is that the political hub in this context was the Foreign Ministry that there was massive intervention by Iran there. On the evening of the murder, the Iranian ambassador was already speaking in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There have also been massive attacks against Austria. In principle, the Foreign Minister mentioned them, we could also read them in the newspapers. It has already been reported in 1989 and is being reported again today. Foreign Minister! But what you have not done is to assess these interventions in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Did it really agree that there was a danger for Austrian citizens in Iran? Have you weighed the risk of the Austrian citizens with the persecution of the apparently urgent suspects here in Austria? Did you do that? You can't just talk about the staff, you can't talk to the political director. He has reported to the Secretary-General for Foreign Affairs, who has reported to the Foreign Minister, and he must have thought of something. There must have been a balance, an assessment, and we want to question that, we want to know that from you: What did our current colleague Mr Mock know at the time as Foreign Minister, what did the current Federal President, then Secretary-General for Foreign Affairs, know, and who was responsible for the decision? Has the State Council really been placed above the rule of law? If that was the case, please put the facts on the table, then put the relevant assessment bases on the table. As long as this does not happen, we want a committee of inquiry to clarify these procedures. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that the action of the Foreign Ministry on this issue is not a glorious fact that it is rather another mosaic in the missing Austrian foreign policy towards Iran, a foreign policy characterized by weakness, indifference and unprincipledness. We believe that we have also expressed this clearly and clearly in our urgent request, and I regret that this misbehavior has occurred and that this misbehaviour in our positions within the framework of the European Union will continue. And there is already to think, ladies and gentlemen, if the Austrian ambassador at Iran is well recognized, while its colleagues from Germany or Denmark are not allowed to enter. Here it is appropriate to think about why some... [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Federal Minister! You would really be well advised to question this and think about it,...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4149	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4164	... why our ambassador enjoys the goodwill of Iran, but not the other ambassadors. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I would like to give up the ruling of Iran!]] Federal Minister! Finally, I should like to ask the Austrian foreign policy to return to the ground of reality. I can ask you to reach a consensus in the Austrian foreign policy in the interest of the country...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4196	The speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4211	... and agree to an investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4241	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4263	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You demand clarification, and I tell you with all my determination: we too! And these are not empty words, but I can take the evidence. Eight years ago – since no member of the opposition has tried this causa – immediately after the attacks of the 13th century. In July 1989, it was a Social Democratic Member, Mr Horvath, who, at the earliest possible time, took a parliamentary initiative and asked the Minister of Justice for justice at the time, in which it stated, inter alia: "From these documents or from the facts outlined" - and this is detailed in this very long request - "a number of questions arise as to the extent to which the judicial authorities have acted correctly or in good time in this case." And from this motivation she made a total of 34 requests. We did not get further, ladies and gentlemen, but that does not mean that the Socialist Group abandons its efforts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Accept!]] On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen. We operate this form of education only a little bit more subject-oriented than you. Their excitement in this context is more than artificial. What I have here, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, is a small section of the press releases, the 1989, 1990 and 1991 press reports on the subject. [[Keeping a portfolio of newspaper articles in height]] Much, yes, I would say, almost everything from what is now being labeled as dramatic proof with pointed fingers has already been published and has already been commented upon accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: But we have written this in extra!]] In this context, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Group, I do not take your excitement away. I can only read two lines from your own request: The first line is the justification: "in terms of damage to Austria's credibility due to misservices in foreign policy in the conduct of the Kurdish murders, in relations with Iran and in the NATO question". And in the text, Question No. 58: "Walking in the Council of Ministers on 29 May. ==References== The case of Praschak was discussed on May 9, 1997 and the corresponding preliminary examination. If so, in what politically relevant way?" Do you know what that means? [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Have you read the statement at all?]] This is a follow-up to the recipe: Take everything that can be sold as scandal or scandal, mix it well and serve it as hot as possible after heating it up, as a committee of inquiry according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! That has nothing to do with Enlightenment at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And my colleague, Moser, has settled himself. He said: As long as the facts are not on the table – many are already on the table – let us ask for a committee of inquiry. I invite you to reverse the thought: You know that there will be a report from the Federal Government, accompanied by the file of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Look If you reach the convolut of the files in the next days, then form your opinion, and then we come to results. But don't ask for an investigation committee before you get those files you ask for! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What deeply saddens me in this regard is that this question and its 60 detailed questions did not arise: the honest, open concern about the reputation of our country and the clarification of the facts at that time. What you want in this context is to carry out a scandal with some media. Ladies and gentlemen, this is too serious for us. The facts have to be clarified, and we will, like any Austrian, also provide you with the relevant documents to the media rapporteurs. We will therefore proceed in the following way: All the facts and files are on the table, and then the judge will have to examine and assess according to the criminal relevance. In parallel, publication will take place. If criminal offences arise, they will have to prosecute the independent courts, and if there should still be politically open, relevant issues, we will have to have the consequences. What we do not want, ladies and gentlemen, is, Austrian officials, to do something that we had to experience in the courtroom today. FPÖ chief Jörg Haider must withdraw his accusation against a member of the Federal Government and officials over a year ago. He must pay not only the costs of the attorneys but also the compensation of 50 000 s to those officials whom he has committed to the abuse of his duties. But the honor of these police officers, who have been thrown into the dirt for months in this way, does not get back at 50,000 s. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Unheard of!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with all the clarity: It is clear, but then, if the conditions are met, and we need the files to do so. This Federal Government must not be forced to submit the files by decision of the National Council or of an Investigation Committee. She's doing this voluntarily. And I invite you to test as critically as you have done your words here. I can add one more thing: I deeply regret, ladies and gentlemen, even today and at this point, that my group's proposal has not been accepted in connection with the last two regulatory reforms, namely that we are introducing a decent, rule-of-law, reasonable and fair procedure for committee of inquiry. I would like to invite you once again – for the third time – to establish such a procedure. - Thank you many times. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[16:40]] Announcement of a further application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4370	Ladies and gentlemen! I declare that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 GOG has requested to set up an investigation committee on the political responsibility and influence of bodies of execution in connection with the German Federal Government's acceptance of liability in the field of export promotion by the Austrian Control Bank. In this context, there is also the request of five Members according to § 33 para. 2 GoG to hold a debate on this subject. This debate is scheduled for the time when we have debated or voted on the committees of inquiry which have already been announced, in the order in which the request has been received. We are now continuing in the debate itself. Mrs Khol is speaking. He has a voluntary speaking time of 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4402	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to point out that we have always taken part in the fate of the Kurdish people by the People's Party, that until the Kurds in Austria have been represented almost exclusively by the PKK, we have had intense contact and therefore deeply regret and condemn the murders of the members of the Kurdish people. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have done a lot for the Kurds in the context of our human rights policy over the years, and I have also had personal contacts with Kurds. I would like to point out that the creation of the safe areas for Kurds in Iraq is also based on the initiative of our Foreign Minister, Mr Mock. I recall a fierce dispute we had with the Turkish Prime Minister within the framework of a party-international, because the President of the European Democratic Union – that is and was Alois Mock – called for the CSCE Human Rights Procedure for the Kurds in the Turks. That means that we do not need to be ashamed of this. We have repeatedly done what we could for the Kurds' human rights in a careful but consistent policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And just because we did that, Mrs. Dr. Schmidt – Mrs. Dr. Heide Schmidt, I have to say, so that you are not confused with Dr. Erich Schmid – I strongly reject your ideas: [[Interlocutors at the Liberal Forum]] Nobody in this country, no one who was responsible in the Federal Government at the time, deliberately protected murderers. No one has deliberately concealed it, no one has deliberately violated human rights! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] ==References== July was the murder. Do you know when the first case-law came in, which ultimately convinced the courts? ==References====External links== ==References== There was none of the three suspects in the country. So if you want to put a plan here, that's too far. [[Intervocations at the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] I believe and am convinced that the facts are largely clear on the basis of these documents. I too have huge bumps of documents, I have a lot of hundreds of pages of long convoluted parliamentary questions that have already been put on this matter, with the corresponding answers. And here is really the sentence: Nihil novi sub sole. There's really nothing new under the sun here. We have read all that Peter Pilz, as an exclusive information in the skillful press work of some newspaper under his shirt, in the "profile" in 1990, which we have read in written questionnaire replies in 1989, 1990. All of this is not new, and the facts are already largely clear on the basis of the documents available. I say to you on behalf of my group that we reject the accusations against the three then Ministers Foregger, Löschnak and Mock. For us, these are the men of honor who have assumed their responsibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to stress this again – and I mean every word as I say it: These people want to do the best for Austria and also do it with care in the context of the laws! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Despite this, the procedure described by my colleague, Mr Kostelka, will once again carry out detailed investigations in all the ministries concerned and present the results. The results are made available to the public, made available to all club members, made available to the prosecutor, and then the necessary – in case they prove necessary – can be affected. The facts that have been clarified so far do not bear a committee of inquiry, because what, ladies and gentlemen of the requesting groups, is to appear in an investigation committee? – It will be examined whether the facts show political responsibility for the ministers involved. Ladies and gentlemen! The facts are all available. One can now differ on the extent of political responsibility. It is legitimate to ask if anything has been done that could have been done. And this is quite appropriate in the context of a political debate, as we are holding today. Of course, there can be different opinions on the individual questions you have raised, Mrs Schmidt, but the Committee of Inquiry is the strongest weapon that Parliament has. Finally, I would like to say – and I was myself in an investigation committee; and I join my previous speaker here as well: I am extremely skeptical as long as we do not have a humanely mature procedural system, because I have experienced how innocent citizens are pre-condemned, criminalized, made to cry and finished within the framework of investigation committees, people who have not been charged with anything afterwards, and I am not buying such a spectacle! [[Abg. Wabl: You refuse to do so in the reform of the Rules of Procedure! That's incredible! For years, you have refused this, and now you still regret it! That's incredible!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4495	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4517	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is, after all, already a step forward if the debate by the Social Democratic Clubman says that there is, of course, something to clarify and investigate, but one does not want to have an investigation committee. There will be a government documentation. Mr Kostelka! As a learned constitutional lawyer, you know that there is something like a division of powers. And if the government is suspected of making mistakes, it really doesn't look very good when the same government says we're investigating ourselves, because then they control themselves. In fact, the committee of inquiry is there, and if there is nothing to hide, I wonder what you are afraid of. What are you afraid that you will now come up with the argument that we need a less humane procedure? As a result, Mr Khol comes with crocodile tears and says: I'm afraid that's such an inhumane procedure. – They’re the last ones to say that. You, Mr Kostelka, have been sentenced two days ago in a procedure with me. There is an interim order that you should no longer make the re-activating accusation attached to me. That's your procedure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You should know that this is not a condemnation!]] Her own old chancellor Dr. Vranitzky said a year ago on TV: The Haider doesn't pay any taxes for his businesses! – Last night he was sentenced – final, legal! – that he does not have to say that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: And the Haider didn't present the act!]] I therefore believe that it would have been quite right to clarify this. Mr Löschnak has said in Parliament itself that a lot of pans have happened. That is why we are not yet condemning the ministers. But if he says that pans have happened, then that's already a clue that there's something to be explained. For me, the question of how a security in this system has been possible is already raised when this conference, in which the Kurds participated, has experienced a "sampling-like surveillance". Monitor sample-like – how is the state police doing this? These would be interesting things to clear up. Or: It would be interesting to know why the reports of the State Police on the pre-monitorings have all suddenly disappeared. There must be a reason why these things should not ultimately come to light. This question has been made clear – including the last questions raised in connection with Praschak – in our rule of law system there are a number of things that need to be answered in an urgent light. I think that would be good. But the two coalition parties act and say: We do not have a decent procedure of an investigation committee, and we are confronted with cases, including those of Mr Praschak, with his tragic suicide, which makes it clear how unworthy of the system you are cultivating with your red-black propore and personnel policy! That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should actually think about these things. Is it really true that you can all have a good conscience in a political system, Mr Khol, in which one of the leading bank managers who has come to that position through the way of political protection, because otherwise it will not be possible to trigger a middle earthquake by making available to us documents with his information that black CA and red bank Austria have been talking to their employees in the control bank about how to make tax evasions of 300 million schillings? Why don't you read the protocol yourself? "Consensual definition of the amount of the design framework" is to be read here. That's not a reason to explain?- Oh, my God! And Dr. Schüssel goes here and says that this government has not dealt with the Praschak case, because it is in no way affected by the Austro-Austrian control bank! – Yes, Dr. Schüssel, how can you say that? The Austrian taxpayer is responsible – and according to the will of the Federal Government this will happen very soon – for the export guarantees given by this Austrian control bank. Nearly 500 billion schilling debts stand for discussion here. It would be better for you to say yes, we want to put the cards on the table and clear: If there was tax evasion, are there state and political banks operating in an immense way in a system that we should actually reform at the earliest? We would have liked to hear from you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why is it not possible, at last, to ensure in this government that the financial offices also examine what has really happened in the last ten years. Is Dr Praschak's accusation that the predecessor in his office has also observed the practice of tax evasion? If it is true that 150 million schillings have been deposited on special accounts of the control bank by the predecessor Haschek, is it true that they are located there, branched off, tax-free, and that in the eyes of a finance minister who ultimately sends financial control and banking supervision to the control bank? – These are the questions that ask us. Or the question: What about the East, Dr. Schüssel? Always only the CA, always only the Bank Austria – and all the riskless business that remains with the taxpayer because the Austrian control bank ultimately has to assume the responsibility for all the falling loans! You can act easily without risk. This burden has become too difficult for Mr Praschak, and that was the reason why he has taken such a step, including information from the public. And here you go and say you were the only ones for privatisation?- Oh, my God! Dr. Schüssel! We, our two parties, have signed a written agreement and a legal draft of a privatisation law, and your party, after the negotiations with the Social Democrats, has failed to implement a written agreement on the privatisation of the banking sector with us. That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: How usual!]] Have with us You have broken the contract, and with Mr Randa, who has become too powerful for you today, you have signed the contract, because he has signed the coalition agreement, as you have made public. Then you go here and say that we would have tried to prevent all of this. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Attems is your product at this banking summit. Men in this page-letter have unpacked: Attems must become head of the control bank! [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Our black breath must sit instead of a red one if the red Randa is the Supervisory Board President! – This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wabl: This is the blue-black Constitutional Arch!]] Your wish, Dr. Schüssel, after depoliticization in honour, but how is it that you wanted to provide your secretary Pribil in a state banking area days ago – for all possible functions he is now in conversation – or that the Federal Chancellor wants to "put" his secretary hall into the OMV and that an interim solution is now being made at the post-sparkas, because you're ignited to make a political decision again? The next Secretary-General is already knocking on the door as a new Director-General, if you do not yet know. We will talk about it very soon. This is your objective, that is your humane policy, which we criticize, ladies and gentlemen. This is what Mr Praschak has finally deeply affected. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that is why people rightly feel that this country is in the grip of a political mafia, which goes beyond everything where the Parliament no longer has a right, but all the rights have a handful of powerful bank managers and politicians who pull the threads in this cabinet. This is reality, and we want to deal with these things in a committee of inquiry. It is about the question of how it can be that the most serious accusations of tax evasion, the machinations in the eastern credits, where it has already been proved in Vienna that all this has gone wrong, are simply turned under the carpet. And you from the ÖVP were there everywhere. The majority of the cake has swallowed the SPÖ, and you have received a few brocades, Mrs Secretary General, Mr Neumann, for example. Mr Neumann, your black pleuriant, has also taken over the millions from the East Aid. There you did not help in the East, but some Ganovers have enriched themselves, and that on the back of the Austrian taxpayers. And this has become too much Praschak. You just need to take note of this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I say to you: How far we are today proves to me an advertisement in the "Standard" of the 30th century. April 1997: The State Bank Investment Credit announces that it – I’m done right now! – founded a subsidiary in Malta and now the... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4660	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4676	... now the Austrians can act as investors from a million schillings in Malta under the Austrian tax laws. These are our state banks, ladies and gentlemen! Now I'm asking You really are: Is there not a good reason to make information really possible? Voices I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4711	Mr Dr. Stummvoll referred to an actual correction. Please respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4735	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider has stated here from the speaker's desk that Mr Dr. Attems, the Supervisory Bank's Board, would have been part of the 17-point agreement between Bank Austria and CA. I'm correcting it here: True is rather: Dr. Attems is not part of these 17 points. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That was 18th. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 17a is that!]] Second finding: Dr. Haider here explained from the speaker's desk that Dr. Attems was a member of the ÖVP. True is rather: Dr. Attems has repeatedly publicly declared that he is not a member of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: "Your product" he said!]] Third clarification: Mr Dr. Haider mentioned Dr. Pribil. True is: Dr. Pribil will not go to the National Bank as a director, but Dr. Pribil was in the National Bank and wants to return to his ancestral posts. That's an essential difference!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4820	The next speaker is Mr Anschober. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4841	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the very subject of this special meeting. However, we did not expect anything else from you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: This one hour grudge speech today, in which you have acted with half-truths – I will explain it to you in detail – which in an area, in an extremely important area, even the untruth, has been unbearable to me. You have been able – and I am sure of that – to take this reluctance speech, this attempt to sit down and sit down again, just so relaxedly here because you know that the coalition peace has been restored, because you know very well that the Socialist Group – and we will talk about it with what means – is back on the short line of coalition. The "prelude" remarks made by a number of social democratic officials and delegates up to about a week ago now have no validity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In April 1997, Helen Ghassemlou, the widow of the murdered Kurdenführer, was visiting Vienna, and she meant that there was an essential difference between Berlin and Vienna: In Berlin, political murderers, state terrorists are detained, in Vienna they are escorted to the airport. The first debate on a parliamentary committee of inquiry was held here in Parliament on the same day. There was an intonation by SPÖ and ÖVP, there were no files, we should present evidence and so on. Now we have been doing this for three weeks, Mr Leikam. Three weeks ago! [[Abg. Leikam: Newspaper!]] And what has changed is the following: The one scandal has now become a double scandal; from the disaster of 1989 it has now become a continuation of the cover-up policy in 1997. If Mr Klubobmann Khol tells us here with a battle plan that there would no longer be any committees of inquiry as long as the Rules of Procedure are not "repaired" according to his opinion, then this is a democratic scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Three weeks of information and all the indications now speak of the fact that in 1989 it was not a series of pans, but rather a targeted escape that it was not a series of pans, but the bending of the rule of law. To deny this with a one-hour speech by the Foreign Minister is just ridiculous! The former Minister of the Interior knows the record of the 14th century. In July 1989 exactly where the then head of the EBT, the intervention group to combat terrorism, wrote that the three Iranians were the perpetrators with 99 percent certainty. 14. July 1989; Dr. Kessler. – Mr Ex-Innenminister! You can remember. Don't pull your shoulder! That's the reality! You knew exactly who the perpetrators were the day after this murder. It must be a duty to explain in a country what political background there is for three state terrorists to escape despite this knowledge. This is a minimum task for a enlightened democracy. In any other state of the law of Europe, an investigation by a parliamentary committee of inquiry would be a matter of course. – Austria is different. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You're trying to sit down, you're trying to cover up, and you're now on the short line of the coalition partner. - But later. That was the 14th. July 1989: The EBT has clearly and clearly stated who the perpetrators are. Three days later, there is a record of the journal judge. He said: I congratulate the Austrian executive. We've been investigating the perpetrators after three days. This is quite different from Lockheed when the international authorities have spent months researching the perpetrators. What's going on, Mr. Ex-Minister Löschnak? - Nothing! Nothing happens, quite the contrary: ==References====External links== July 1989 – the first intervention of the former head of the state police – only not to issue arrest warrants because "diplomatic proceedings" threaten. That's proven, it's official. That's not an airborne accusation. ==References== In July 1989, there was the first evidence against Sahraroodi. You know what proof I mean, the verification of the flight vehicle and a testimony that clearly says, to 100 percent, Sahraroodi was the buyer of this escape vehicle. Nevertheless: three days later, by police escort towards the airport. Escort service in Austrian. Then the release of Bosorgian into the message. The whole story: Iranian interventions – 16 in total! – with the Austrian authorities, and, and, and; five political directions in the Causa, I know yours; I know that this was – I assume – initially meant positive. But still: Four political directions that remain and which are clarified. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There is a series of open questions and areas that can be clarified. And this can only be done in a parliamentary committee of inquiry, because we only have the opportunity there to present documents not only, but above all, to question witnesses under the duty of truth and to carry out comparisons. That is the crucial point. Foreign Minister Schüssel! I would have expected you to say: Well, that's how the situation was in 1989, we're on it. Today, however, we are clarifying this, and we are presenting the reasons for this political release. For example, has there been political pressure as the first motive, so that Austrian citizens in Iran would have been harmed? Has there been attempts to extortion – and we will get even closer to the public in a short time – in the Causa "Noricum", as already discussed in the media, or did this also have economic reasons? You said there were interventions. That's right. There have been Iran's interventions in series, a total of 16 documented interventions! [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] And – that is the real point – in almost all of these cases this pressure was passed on to the judicial authorities by Iran. And then you claim that the independent judicial system would have been completely free, from its own pieces – then you would have acted on a small examiner. No one in this country believes that! Minister Schüssel! You told us today, against Sahraroodi is before the 22nd. In July 1989, before leaving the police station, there was no suspicion. – I have to tell you: This is a smooth untruth that you have presented to the House today! This is a smooth untruth! [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] I'm telling you, it's on 19th. In July 1989, the following case reference was made: ==References== At 2 p.m. on July 30, this note is verified and recorded by an official of the State Police, Nevoral. I quote: ==References== July 1989, i.e. three days before the D.A.'s departure, at around 2 p.m. 30 p.m., I discussed with investigator Dr. Danek. I told him that Witness M. ==References====External links==* Official website 1. and 10. 1. 1989 the motorcycle Suzuki, et cetera, et cetera. Then, in the hospital, Sahraroodi was confronted to the witness – and he clearly recognized him as the buyer of the Suzuki. The vehicle papers agreed, were found together with the weapons of action. Dr. Danek sent this urgent crime suspect Dr. Fasching – three days before the exit. And you're telling us today that there's no suspect moment. Minister! That was just a classic untruth! And this is only the continuation of what has happened in this House in the Kurdish question for years. We have now documented in seven cases that there has been incorrect, incorrect information in the case of parliamentary questions. There was no dementi of the then or present Minister. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Now to say, we have the competent officials draw up a report, i.e. the government decides by your majority: We control ourselves in Austria. Who would be surprised at this "control" in this country if nothing happened? – I’m not a learned Austrian. But we'll take a very close look at what's inside. This delay tactic, which would be unthinkable in any other rule of law in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4930	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4946	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The second part of the scandal: The SPÖ has been very strong and very committed until a week ago to addressing the question of willingness to a committee of inquiry. My question to Klubobmann Dr. Khol and to Klubobmann Kostelka would be: Have there been agreements over the last few days on an exchange of views on the question of these two possible and necessary committees of inquiry? Has there been a deal of SPÖ and ÖVP towards prevention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e4979	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, has reported an actual correction. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5003	I am correcting Mr Anschober, who said that I would have rejected the establishment of an investigation committee on the grounds that there is no procedural order. I am referring to the corrected facts: I have said that the committee of inquiry is the strongest weapon in Parliament, that in the present case it is about legitimate, political differences and that we must use this heavy weapon only if... [[Abg. May. Barmüller: When it comes to opposition!]] No, if we have reservations about the constant criminalisation of innocent, because of the lack of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Anschober. Outside the actual correction, I will answer your question with a no.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5039	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5060	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am happy not to have to use an actual correction in order to be able to go straight to the political point. Many words have already been changed, and I mean, just the question of committee of inquiry: yes or no? is a question of political honesty, of political honesty. I can't stand these formal arguments. If, in the context of a committee of inquiry, we do not agree to improve the rules of procedure, as admittedly, to exercise parliamentary control in relation to the government, then I wonder if the colleagues who have said this from this item should be entrusted with their mandate. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Of course, if you have a procedural order, it may be easier. If the rails are better, it's easier. But if we no longer trust ourselves to exercise political control of the Federal Government within the framework of a committee of inquiry, then we really do not have to claim to exercise parliamentary control at all. If we are clearly comforted so that the government will gain a little more time, as is the case with perpetrators, put out the hour of truth a little more because they promise us a report of the people concerned about themselves, then I can tell you: [[Abg. Grandruck: Wait, wait! Who's the culprit?]] It almost sounds to me that some act might look something different afterwards than he had looked before yesterday. I express this very consciously: Whoever foreshadows so much time to avoid an investigation, while he knows very well that he will not come around at last, he wants to use this time. That's what they call the risk of evaporation. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Everything under the cover of immunity!]] I use the term "hazardousness" quite consciously, because this is a term from criminal law enforcement. And what you're doing here may actually have left the political area. - I hope not. I hope that it will still be possible to put the matter on the political agenda in the course of a parliamentary investigation. Mr. Vice-Chancellor has carried out what high reputation we have, and we should now let the judiciary work or, apparently in this case, the law-free prosecutorship. I didn't quite understand him when he spoke of the independent justice, it was always just the prosecutor's office that we meant. I'll tell you: What would we have gained in reputation if we had let justice work in 1989? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Then perhaps the "Mykonos" judgment would not have been the political invading of Iran, but then perhaps an Austrian court would have been able to determine independently and objectively what we know for a long time: that Iran operates terrorism in the territory of other sovereign states. And that's the point. Now the question is: Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs properly assessed the situation at the time and also correctly reported to the Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, or has it been reported beautifully? If correctly reported, then objectively the pressure of Iran was passed on. And this objective situation, which has not yet been assessed at this stage, here to be disputed by the Government Bank, is very insolent. For either the Secretary-General, Mr Klestil, is told that he has reported beautifully to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, then no pressure has been exerted, or he has correctly reported on what Iran has done. It has not yet been expressed whether he has laid down the weight of his house even now. And we would have liked to study that politically. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister and Deputy Chancellor Dr. Schüssel has named the external trade data; it was interesting to hear them. He left out the eighties, but the nineties were interesting; the figures are falling. I can only say: Apparently, your calculation has not even paid off! That's what I'm telling you: Your calculation has not even paid off, because if you behave as lovablely as you did, then you will not only be ridiculed, but you will also pay for it. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberal Forum]] So, Minister of State: Sometimes giving up moral positions is not even profitable! This is what this Federal Government should remember! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5145	The next speech is by Mr Dr. Fuhrmann. You have a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5167	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker raised the question of political fairness, the question of whether we should entrust ourselves to our mandate, and Mr Moser of the same group said that he had to appeal to our responsibility as a Member. To this end, I should like to say in advance: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Group! If you think you want to ask for an investigation committee, and if you agree, I agree with you that you take your responsibility as a Member of Parliament seriously, and I would also like to give you a reasonable colloquial relationship, that this is also of political fairness and that you are entrusting yourself to your mandate. But: I am not going to let myself and my fellow Members, who are not of your opinion, go from this speaker's point of view, that we have no political reasonableness, that we do not trust our mandate or that we do not assume our responsibility as Members if we come to an assessment different from you here and today. Please note! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, They demand that it be decided today that an investigation committee should be set up. I ask you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: Why did you not feel this urgency in the years since 1989, why did you need a broadcast of the appropriate judicial Senate on the "Mykonos" judgment in order to feel this urgency, and why do you not agree with us – all of us in this House – that we want to use a committee of inquiry based on constantly repeated suspicions, press releases and documents known to us for years, but rather go a different way, namely Mr Löschnak mentioned to him the last time – that the Austrian court has, in the legal aid way, obtained the original of the "Mykonos" judgment after it has been written, which is not possible at a national council investigation committee? The Court of Justice is to request the Mykonos judgment in the international legal aid procedure so that it can be evaluated. [[Abg. Wabl: Nothing speaks against it! In addition, we are not in the same committee.]] – Wabl, let me talk, I only have six minutes! Give a’ Ruah! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is crucial for you to demand the establishment of a committee of inquiry now? – have been for years You didn't see any need for that. Now it seems to fit you into the political calculation. I'm not mad at you for that, but I'm asking you not to be angry if I'm telling you. In addition: What's so bad about it when you say: The three departments involved in this question, which are now being very massively attacked by the opposition and also by some media, are to compile the files, should report on the files you have? But it is also intended to be made available to the files that the clubs have – and you are always silent about it. Then let us look at the whole thing, and then, ladies and gentlemen, the question will be to find out if there is something relevant in criminal law. In parenthesis it was added: What is being blamed would be serious and massive abuse of office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] Mr Moser! Of course! Excuse me many times, even if I'm a lawyer, I trust to say that. I would say very well as a prosecutor and investigator – I am curious about what Mrs. Partik will say about this: If, indeed, massive influence has taken place, this would be a criminally relevant case. If so, then justice has to act. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen I am opposed to it, only because it now fits you into the political calculation, to the suspicion that a judge in that Republic of Austria has refused a warrant of arrest due to a political intervention – one knows that I have very often made critical remarks about the Austrian judiciary – now to say: This is said to be so, and that is why a committee of inquiry must be set up immediately. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Moser, Mr Kier and all the other ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I say something to you now, and I tell you this from my personal experience as a member of two committees of inquiry: A committee of inquiry lives on facts, on documents and on the subject of investigation – and not on suspicions! I'll tell you something. The question with the Rules of Procedure must be taken seriously, and I, Willi Fuhrmann, am one of those who have made great efforts to develop a procedural order taking into account the experience gained from the "Lucona" and the "Noricum" examination committee. [[Abg. Wabl: The ÖVP has rejected it!]] I'm sorry, though, I've been abandoned. We do not have a new Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Wabl: The Khol has rejected it!]] But I am not of those who say: As long as we do not have a new Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5243	Finally, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5260	Mr President. I have a voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5278	Good.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5294	One more minute, please. I do not belong to those who say there must be no committee of inquiry as long as we do not have a new Rules of Procedure. But: Ladies and gentlemen! I'm appealing to All of you in this high house: We have a suitable design from this time on. Let us take this up again so that we do not go to a committee of inquiry, which is going to take place again in accordance with the old Rules of Procedure, by the chairman of the Austrian criminal court. Ellinger, once again have to say: "The pre-programmed daily media spectacle with far-reaching pre-conceptions is expected to occur, and the Jewish delegates were dealing with witnesses, the more they scored in the media." "It is no longer veiled pre-conceptions, but members of the parliamentary committees of inquiry condemned witnesses, under the protection of their parliamentary immunity, according to their opportunities." And so on and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! I very much hope that we will not have to let this happen again, if there is again a committee of inquiry in this House, because it is necessary to stop telling us any more – even in our responsibility as a Member of this Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5332	The next speaker was Mrs Fekter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5354	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. High house! If one is serious about this case, then one must focus on the level of knowledge that decision-makers had at the time. [[Abg. On top of that, the Minister should be guided by the current state of knowledge!]] You, Mr Anschober, have, in the course of time, preceded a lot at a time when it was not yet known as a fact. If one looks at the chronology of events and then analyses the decisions from the chronology and from the state of knowledge that one had at the time, then one cannot blame either the justice or the executive or the foreign office for misbehavior. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. On top of that: You can construct what you want, that doesn't change to the facts!]] I would now like to focus briefly on the chronology of events. It is undisputed that at the beginning of the investigations, the injured Iranian was seen as a victim by everyone, because he called seriously injured in the street after the police and because he was a victim. [[Abg. Sir: Wrong! This is the untruth!]] The next point in chronology: Those Iranians who were taken into custody for a short time claimed not to have been in the apartment, but only to have gone for a jause, and then he made himself available as a witness. So he wasn't supposed to be a culprit either. From this state of knowledge, from the fact that the executive was based on a victim theory regarding the two Iranians, one has to assess the matter today. Although this theory was rather rapid by contradictions in the statements, already on the third day after the act, something was awakened, but the contradictions were not so serious that the investigating judge, who even heard the injured in the hospital, would have seen sufficient suspicions in the contradictions to issue a warrant for murder. It was only months later, in November 1989, that this theory of sacrifice was finally rejected by the approximately 400 pages of judicial and technical expert opinion. [[Abg. Young: This is a scandal that takes so long!]] That is, it was only in November 1989 that one was able to prove that the supposed victims were in truth the perpetrators. Neither the investigations by the security authorities nor the hearing by the judge in the hospital immediately after the act provided sufficient basis for a warrant to be issued for murder. Against Bosorgian – that was the Iranian, who first appeared only as a witness – a warrant was issued on the next day for neglected assistance. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's the biggest thing at all!]] Mr Stadler! If the judge has no reasonable evidence to determine for murder, he cannot be accused of not having done so because of his knowledge. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A lot he would have had!]] That Iranian, therefore, against which a warrant has been issued, was already in the Iranian Embassy. There, the foreign office has intervened several times that it is being delivered – in vain, as we know today. It is clear from the entire file situation, from chronology, also from the very extensive media reports at that time that there would have been no pressure or influence: neither on executive nor on justice. Ladies and gentlemen from the Green Group! I also reject your accusation, which you presented today in an APA issue against Minister Foregger, that he would have had on 22 July. In July 1989, in other words, nine days after the attack, in spite of the urgent suspicion of murder, pleads for the abolition of the arrest warrant against Bosorgian. If one knows that at the same time, the prosecutor, and also the judge, Danek, had not had sufficient grounds for the arrest warrant to be issued for murder, then the Minister could not have sufficient grounds for suspicion of murder. This is an understatement with the state of knowledge of the 22nd century. In July 1989, you did not agree at all, and you cannot maintain this claim, especially as the investigating judge and the prosecutor concluded that there were no sufficient grounds for suspicion of murder, and they continued to adhere to the theory of sacrifice. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Anschober has here held a meeting that was known to Sahraroodi (cf. Jn) who bought the motorcycle. That was also known to the prosecutor at the time, but nevertheless he did not turn away from the theory of sacrifice to the view that it was actually the perpetrators. He said there were no sufficient reasons for suspicion of murder. For this reason, with the knowledge of the time, the procedure has gone so unsatisfying, as we know from today's point of view. From today's point of view and after the "Mykonos" process, one can of course be more clever, more easily known. It is therefore not possible to clarify this in a committee of inquiry, because the Committee of Inquiry is unable to request the files of the Mykonos procedure in the appeal proceedings. Only the court can do that. That is why we are calling for the court to investigate this case of murder. After all, the arrest warrants are still upright, the investigating judge has already determined, he has already requested the files, and perhaps this brightens the events. The request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry, Mr Wabl, seems to me to be a bit of an intention to take inquisitorial action against active politicians and not so much on the grounds that the actual events are to be lightened.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5471	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5492	Mr President. High house! When the President of the Justice Committee talks about criminals, it is always appropriate to be careful, Mr Vice-Chancellor. The President of the Committee on Justice has recently intervened for a Bosnian who had already been deported to Vöcklabruck on the notice of the District Head of the Vöcklabruck District Board. This man was released by Mrs Fekter's intervention to the Federal Minister, one who gave an instruction. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a lie!]] This man committed 150 crimes, was subjugated, and then had to be searched again. [[Call to the liberals:Aha!]] Mrs Fekter, therefore, is extremely careful when she talks about offenders. Very careful! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This man was then taken later and then postponed – despite the intervention of Mrs Fekter. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I'll send it in advance: We will vote in favour of the requests for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. We will continue to demand an investigation into the incidents in Ebergassing. I have already been promised to support the Green Group at the last meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! The reasons why this special meeting has been convened today must be clarified. Why has a special meeting been called for on a subject which has been a matter of several years ago, which has nothing to do with urgency at all, except that the only special session which has been granted in the reform of the Rules of Procedure must now somehow be fried with a very specific political intention? Mrs Schmidt has, for many years – also in writing – shown that this is a serious failure of the judicial system, called the prosecutor Dr. Fasching (cf. Jn) once again, but said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was guilty. She said, however, that not Mr. Dr. Mock, no, the then Secretary-General at the Foreign Office, Dr. Klestil, was to blame. So it's Dr. Klestil, ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, the Greens praised Dr Fischer as a hero who at the time wanted to prevent the arrest warrants from being lifted in order to let the suspected offenders escape to Iran. Mrs Schmidt! You can literally grasp what you're talking about. It's about Dr. Klestil, it's about you preparing the next Federal President's election – and nothing else. That's the intention that's behind it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is a matter of examining a scandal of justice – Mr Moser, it is objectively a scandal of justice, and as such it is to be examined; in our country, suspiciously many suspected offenders – out of an objective failure of Austrian justice – this opinion is represented by Mrs Schmidt several times in her urgent request and in her request for an investigation committee, and I can only emphasize it thickly – to make an objective failure by Dr. Kletil, it is about putting Dr. Kletil's guilt into the shoes. But there, ladies and gentlemen, we don't play with it – let's say –! Ladies and gentlemen! We demand a complete investigation of this case, but also of the failure of justice in the Causa Ebergassing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor and also the speakers of the ÖVP are, of course, wrong, if they believe that the judicial system, which, in this case, has massively pumped and bred around, will now be more successful. How can you say that where the Minister of Justice must have informed you in the cabinet - at least he has said this to the "curer" - that it is not determined at all because the perpetrators are not tangible? Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Why are you telling the High House something like that? – They talk about an investigation by the judiciary, referring to the court that decided in the Mykonos case, although you know very well that justice is not at all active. But if she's active, she'll be stunned. So what are you doing, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We believe that there is a need for an investigation. You won't be able to prevent him in a short or long time. But much more important, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, is the question of who in this case was appointed to the public as a witness. It became the Lord Bani-Sadr (cf. Jn) presented to the public at a major press conference. Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, do you know who Mr Bani-Sadr is? – In me, everything rages when Mr. Bani-Sadr speaks to Kurds. Mr Bani-Sadr is the man who is responsible for killing countless people of Kurdish nationality in the north of Iran by massive bombings. He took part in a genocide in the Kurds. He is the most imaginable man, as a witness of humanity in Kurdish affairs and as a witness against the Austrian Federal Government in public, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bani-Sadr, I would like to give up very much in this regard. We will also be able to clarify these things independently with the instruments and with the files we have available in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Finally, Mrs Schmidt also pointed out that it was embarrassing for her to have not asked for the special session already convened on another subject, namely the suicide of director Praschak That is what she writes in, namely that the special session had unfortunately already been convened and in the meantime a suicide has shaken Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The Praschak case would indeed have justified a special session, and this case will continue to concern us. It will continue to employ the ÖVP and, of course, the SPÖ. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You can't make it so easy to say: We have concluded an agreement with the SPÖ that Mr Bank has signed Austria's Chief Randa. That would mean: Then, when a banker signs, the agreements become a little worth and, interestingly, the signature of the ÖVP becomes a bit worth it. Please send us the next time you negotiate with us, a banker, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Mr. ÖVP-Obmann! A banker must therefore sign so that the signatures of the ÖVP are worth something. In this agreement you say you have implemented great things, from point 1 to point 17 you have implemented everything. That's not true! Even the first point, the capital increase in the AVZ, is not implemented. Similarly, the establishment of a trustee has not been implemented. It is in this agreement... [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] You obviously do not know your own agreement. I'll read it to you. That's what it says: "Exchange of shares or capital increase or sale." [[New interim remark by Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor, do you not know your own agreements? You signed that! Isn't that your signature? [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I'll read to you what's going on!]] I read to you that you do not need to read it to me, Mr Vice-Chancellor. Here's what it says: "First: Voting rights shares of AVZ and Wiener Holding at BA are reduced below 25 percent within five years. Exchange of [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: This is the crucial point!]] Yes, but this has not yet been done, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: This is being prepared!]] Ah, that's being prepared! In the back, the contracts must be settled back if this does not happen within four weeks. The agreement was signed in early January 1997, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. How long do you last four weeks? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They make themselves and play the great winner. They can be pulled over the table by the Socialists that it smokes and acts against the Austrian population as if you had achieved anything in this coalition. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: There are decisions!]] No, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Now you've stopped painting. You're painting any manderls. I don't know what it's supposed to be. [[Vice-chanc Dr. Schüssel holds up a document and shows it to the speaker.]] I'll remind you. Listen to me at last! Look at what you signed! [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I didn't sign anything!]] Look at what the President of the Bank has signed. Here's under point 17: "If a decision of the AVZ on item 1 is not taken within four weeks, the Contracting Parties agree to carry out a re-handling of the sale", ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Grandruck: There were decisions taken!]] No, you didn't make any decisions. To date, you do not even have a trustee who has a trust agreement, who is supposed to be wise, as you have always sounded, Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[Abg. Wabl: Do you have a copy? I would like a copy of the Constitution Bowl!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: This is a booze!]] I tell you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: You actually have fallen quality. We have shown it to you very much. You actually have crasher qualities with your clubman, who has now pushed himself out of the house. You actually have crash quality, as your Minister of Economic Affairs and Success said: A consensus-oriented politician must have fallen-down qualities. They are world champions in this discipline, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. You fell into this causa – and today you don't have to pretend that you've changed anything about this system. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: That's what he's doing!]] You're wet with the system, you're in agreement with these miserable states, so you've been responsible for these tragic effects, which have now led to suicide! Before this responsibility, you can't press!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5716	Mrs Fekter has made a statement on the actual correction. The provisions are known. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5741	Mr Stadler has claimed that I would have a penitentiary due to an intervention by Minister [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mr. Magister Stadler!]] Take one out of jail, and this prisoner would be submerged. This claim is wrong. The right thing is: The notice on the basis of which the objection was imposed was unlawful because of the fact that this decision was based on a legal ban on residence. However, this prohibition on residence was not valid because the proceedings at the Administrative Court were still pending. [[Abg. Böhacker: Have you intervened or not?]] I have not intervened with the Ministry of the Interior or with Minister One, I have just called our district captain and explained to him the illegality of this decision. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Jöh! Now it comes up!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Aha!]] And because of the fact that the decision was unlawful, he has caused it to be removed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] Moreover, the person concerned was not subjugated; he had a permanent residence. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Ask yourself where!]] Mr Stadler! I have promised here in this House to comply with laws, and I do so – even if it concerns foreigners.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5857	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5878	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In your speech, Mr Foreign Minister, you have justified your foreign policy towards Iran, among other things, by seeking to compensate with the moderate forces. But this statement to seek balance with moderate forces must already be more detailed if you look not only at the regimes you are dealing with in Iran, but also at the frequency of mutual state visits we have had to deal with in recent years with the intensity of external relations that Iran has had in mind. This will stop. I have made the effort to look at the foreign policy reports of recent years, especially starting from 1989 onwards. The year 1989 is not just because it is the year of It was murders, but it was because, of course, the war situation between Iran and Iraq had not only affected and disturbed political, diplomatic, but above all economic relations. In 1989 something like a rise in diplomatic foreign relations began, not only in the mutual series of visits, but above all in the export economy of Austria. This will find its upward trend especially in the years 1990 and 1991 in a massive increase in external economic relations. And that's what you've kept silent. If you say the answer: This is not true at all, look at the documents and statistics!, then have They know that there have, of course, been years of far more intensive economic relations and a very strong upward trend, and these have been the years 1990, 1991 and 1992. These are precisely the following years following the attack in Vienna, and it is to be read in foreign policy reports on which sectors, on which plants, to which products this foreign economy has been referring, which Austria has been able to make great use of. In particular, it is important to examine the level at which these foreign policy visits took place. It is also interesting that in 1990, one year after these murders, these visits took place at official level, but from 1991 onwards there were numerous visits and a very massive exchange at ministerial level. There are not only special guests in Vienna who have been visiting Velayati annually since 1991 and who is, so to speak, a permanent guest in Austria, but also the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs or Deputy Minister of Tourism, for the Economy, for Trade, Minister of Labour – from all these areas. Delegations for tourism, delegations for water management with high-level political experts, there were parliamentary visits to both Iran in Austria with the highest representation as well as visits to Austrian parliamentarians. This goes through completely unbroken until 1995. We do not have to prove anything here, Mr Minister, but you, I think, should once again take the evidence that what happened in these years really corresponds to what you say, namely, to the balance of moderate forces. In my opinion, you have to take the evidence that these transactions had nothing to do with pre-emptive obedience, that they had nothing to do with buying a silence to the human rights situation with the export economy, with external trade relations. This is also the case in the light of all the events of 1989 and immediately thereafter. It's about really eradicating all suspicions. What instrument, I ask you, is better suited than a committee of inquiry? They say the independent courts should check. Mr Minister, you know as well as we do that the independent courts have nothing at all to examine. The case is closed as far as the courts are concerned. The information on the political backgrounds, the political responsibility, the rupture between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, how the instructions have come about, how the arrest has not been imposed and arrest warrants have not been issued – this information can only be carried out in a political body, in a committee of inquiry, and not by independent courts. Perhaps it is also very interesting to point out that Austria is the only country in which a committee of inquiry can only be established with a majority of governments. In all other countries in Europe, there are minority rights, there is long been the possibility that the opposition can set up an investigation committee. But we are in a situation that only the majority... [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Where? Where?]] In Germany, for example. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Are there other countries?]] We are not only in a country in which only the majority of the committee of inquiry can decide, but we are still in a country where we are at a regulatory discussion of the club of the government coalition, Klubobmann Khol, says: We do not want to change the way in which such an investigation committee is carried out, because we do not want any committee of inquiry to be set up. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: In which country besides Germany does this still exist?]] We obviously live in a country in which those who are actually the object of control control control themselves and then request reports from the ministries. Interestingly, however, there are no reports from the Foreign Office or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, no reports on the role played by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1989 and in the following years by these strikingly intensive relations with Iran. No, you're content to say: We have the reports drawn up and then let's see what this is like. And this despite an overwhelming burden of proof, despite a public opinion that blows you fully in the face against your desperate attempt to cast something here. On one point, Mrs Fekter, you have remained guilty of a statement. We are located in a country in which very quickly the detention is imposed for completely different acts than murder and against very other suspects, but one thing is certain in Austria: If someone here is suspected of murder, the arrest will be suspended. A statement that there are two murder suspects, but no arrest is imposed, although otherwise this is really common in this country and Usus – not only because of the risk of evaporation, because of the danger of escape, because of all these reasons – you have to first find. Put it in this case right now. They come out here and claim that there have been no reasons to arrest the suspects and to arrest them. One thing is also striking: to return to what my colleague Mr Anschober has already said: this obvious exchange between a committee of inquiry, which is concerned with really inconspicuous transactions in the field of the control bank, in the field of export management, and a committee of inquiry on the totally unexplained and highly suspicious role of three ministries in the evasion and concealment of the Tathergang with subsequent more or less escape aid for the suspects. The presumption that a deal has obviously been made here is acceptable, because if you listen, Minister Schüssel, and Mr Klubobmann Khol, too, it is obvious that on any occasion you only want to point out that you want to include the ex-minister Löschnak in your reasoning. What is the other thing, I wonder, as to make clear between the government parties: Nothing will be here without you. If, then you're just the same, then you're just as in the middle of it. This is precisely why it is high time not only to set up an investigation committee on these cases of the Kurdish murders, but also to set up a committee of inquiry on the lighting of all export operations.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5944	Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e5966	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask Mrs Fekter, who unfortunately is no longer here now, to look at the press reports. Saturday/Sunday 22/ 23. ==References== Ambassador Schmid: "The Iranian side must also be aware that Austrian justice is independent of political influences. I am in almost daily contact with the Iranian ambassador to enable this crime to be clarified. The Iranian attacks are so strange" – attacks! – "to our justice." There was no supposed political pressure at all. Why, then, does an official say that there have been attacks, and can they still be quoted in the paper? Further: "The relationship between Austria and Iran has become more "complicated" by the attack, Mock said." ==References== ==References== In the "Press" he has this printed. Further: 30. July 1989: "Hinnenminister Lösnak, on the other hand, confirmed that the investigative authorities were already on the 19th floor. In July, a warrant was issued against Djafari Sahrarodi." And he remembers on the 29th. November 1996: "He had given instructions to push the injured Iranian Sahraroodi into custody, if the U-director didn't arrest him." So at least Mr Lösnak has given instructions, in this case even particularly valuable instructions, which were apparently not followed at all. We cannot say that there has been no ques tion at all if, on the other hand, officials and politicians confirm the accusations we have made in the request. But, Minister of State, I would not just like to focus on the events of 1989, but rather to present a chronology: 1984: Foreign Minister Lanc is the first Western politician to officially visit Iran after the revolution. 1987: Austria is the first western country to receive Iranian Foreign Minister Velayati. February 1989: The "death sentence" against Salman Rushdie is passed. All EC countries withdraw their ambassadors. Ours prefers to go on vacation for a week. He's not being withdrawn. Then there was the murder on the 13th. ==References== ==References== August 1989: Mr. B.B., Kurdish KDP officer, murdered in Larnaka. 24. April 1990: Radjavi, brother of the leader of the Iranian Volksmushahedin, shot at Lake Geneva. October 1990: The Persian monarch Elahi murdered in his apartment in Paris. 17. April 1991: Borumant, staff of the Iranian ex-premier, beautified in Paris. 8. August 1991: Bahtiar, the last head of government of the Shah of Persia, was amazed in his Paris apartment. November 1991: Velayati in Vienna. - So shortly after that. – On human rights issues and Kurdish affairs, he refuses any information but sees a "very positive" development of relations with Austria. Then it goes on: Only in December 1991 were applications for legal aid issued. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== So it took until 1992 until Iran was invited to cooperate in the relationship. It will continue in July 1992, i.e. half a year after Iran has been invited to cooperate: "Mock in Tehran: if the critical human rights situation is not tailored, the expansion of bilateral economic relations is appreciated." - Oh, that's great! ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== ==References== ==References== October 1993. – After that, the Iranian Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs will come to Federal President Klestil, and further expansion of political contacts will be agreed. November 1994: Velayati in Vienna – in the meantime a number of Kurds have been murdered in Europe –: "Death judgment against Rushdie will always be valid." It is interesting that we are so open to the Minister. March 1995: Velayati again in Vienna, a few days after Iran was sentenced by the Human Rights Commission for serious human rights violations. It is committed to a deepening of economic relations. On request, Mock said that the application for legal aid in the Kurden murder case was not mentioned in the talks. October 1995: Iranian President of Parliament with Austrian National Council President Fischer. Ireland is the only European country he can visit next to Austria. What else, if not, is the political disregard for a very problematic situation? Why, Mr Federal Minister, should we not examine the political responsibility for dealing with this problem in the face of dealing with a highly problematic government that admits to the killing of people abroad? The responsibility is the point of this! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Of course, everything else has to examine the courts. But what I have read to you, Mr Federal Minister, this concerns politics and cannot be judged by any court!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6080	Mr Leikam is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6101	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In April of this year, the Austrian National Council has for the first time been engaged in a brief debate with the Kurden-Morden. Even then, the arguments of the applicants were quite thin. It was, so to speak, "a thin soup", as it has been formulated more often in this house. [[Abg. Wabl: We already know that! That was a weak answer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, this thin soup has already become even thinner. In fact, she doesn't have to show a deposit at all. As in several weeks ago, what has been presented today has been nothing but the press release of the Kammergericht Berlin. This has been quoted by several speakers, but new things have not been added. At that time, like today, we are faced with a series of quotations of countless press articles, whose contents – as our clubman has clearly shown – were fully known in the years 1989 and 1990. Nothing new has really been added – unless one pays attention to the finding that the weekly magazine "News" was not available at the time and the articles that are now to be read in "News" were read in other Austrian press agencies. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: It's about political responsibility!]] Those who have listened exactly to it may be able to see something new in that since the 16th century. On 4 April 1997, all the opposition parties came to a conclusion concerning the former Minister of the Interior Franz Löschnak. ==References== He was still attacked by the speakers of all three opposition parties, so he no longer played a role in today's accusations. Obviously, the opposition parties – which is not prohibited – have become smarter and have recognized that they cannot maintain their accusations. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Mock.]] Mr Anschober spoke of "new evidence", but not a single one. He did not offer more than a chronological list of newspaper articles. Does he think this is proof that Mr Bani-Sadr was brought to Austria, where he gave a press conference in which he called the Austrian politicians "corrupt" on a flat-rate basis, but he had to answer the question of journalists for evidence of his claims, and then left the country again? For example, should the accusation raised serve as a new evidence, and should the Austrian Parliament therefore give its approval to the setting up of an investigation committee? Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum and the Greens! This soup is too thin! If you cannot make other accusations, we will never give such an investigation committee our consent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What was presented by the Liberal Forum today is a particularly interesting set of inconsistencies. This special meeting had to be convened to discuss the Kurdish murders and, because of the urgency, to set up an investigation committee. But if one reads through these 60 questions of urgent request, one can see that it was not only about the Kurdish murders, but also about the suicide of Gerhard Praschak, to hear the accession to NATO and, as before, by a speaker of the Greens, it was also about perceiving all Austrian exports. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Who put all this up?]] I call this a convoy of inconsistencies, because this has nothing to do with the occasion from which this meeting was called for. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I can see what we already have on 16 May. In April 1997 it was clear and clear that: We Austrian parliamentarians have no way of getting the court filed in the legal aid proceedings from Berlin to Austria. But the Austrian judicial authorities probably have this possibility. We should now wait for the chronological presentation of all events related to the Kurdish murders announced by all the three parties involved. We should also wait for the course of the judicial surveys after they have come back into operation. It is not until then that we should be in place with judgments, but not on the basis of what is present and what has been presented again today. What has been presented today can only be described as a completely inappropriate mixture, which is not sufficient for us by the SPÖ Group to give approval to the setting up of an investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6181	Mr Dr. König is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6203	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say two more sentences on the debate on the Kurdish murders. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, especially of the Greens! Whoever brings a Mr. Bani-Sadr here to Austria as a witness of decency, so that he accuses Austria of corruption, should not be surprised if his concerns are not taken seriously. In fact, you have to say: Such behaviour damages Austria's reputation abroad to the extent that it should be expected by Austrian politicians that they will not give in to it. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I say, the Greens. Mr Wabl! Mr. Bani-Sadr was the first Prime Minister of the revolutionary leader Khomeini. At the time of his government, people were hanged on lanterns without a trial in Tehran, at that time hundreds died of torture in prisons, and at that time, Mr Stadler rightly pointed out, the Kurds were bombarded. Such a "crown witness" who expresses unproven suspicions here should be saved from Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Leikam has already pointed out that the Liberals' question is an omnibus question. It covers a number of areas. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Necessary!]] Necessary? However, you have not yet given a position on a subject which is essential to you, otherwise you would not have taken it up, namely NATO, in the debate at all. I assume that the answers given to you by Vice-Chancellor Schüssel were sufficient. I shall now repeat these answers so that they will not be forgotten, for you have not contradicted them. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: You should study the APA issue again!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: What's the matter, please?]] Let me repeat what has been said here because you have not referred to it. Vice-Chancellor Kussel has answered you: There is agreement in the government on this issue. A report will be started before the summer and a joint report will be submitted by the government to this House after the end of the debate. Parliament will therefore be involved. If you are not satisfied with this statement, I wonder what else you want. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Agreed!]] Mr Moser confirmed to me: This request has been answered to your satisfaction. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: But not alone from the Foreign Minister!]] Good! This was not a single entry of the Foreign Minister, and it has been answered in terms of content in your mind. Let me also say something to colleagues of the Freedom Party. They have repeatedly accused us of being too hesitant on NATO's question. This reminds me of your urge to join the EU. However, when we did, the Freedom Party had at one time thought differently. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We already heard this speech!]] Let me finish this. I hope that you will not behave like this again in this debate, but that you will stand up to what you have always said here. Let me say without passion: We all know that a small country today has not grown to the threats from outside alone. We know that. [[Call:The SPÖ does not know this]] Oh, yeah, she knows that too. But the government has subjected this question to appropriate preparation. It does so because we now know that the negotiations on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between NATO and the Russian Federation are well advanced and before the conclusion. We also know that the question of the common foreign and security and defence policy in the EU should be brought to a regulation before the summer summit in Amsterdam, and we know that it is also about the future of the WEU as a European pillar of defence within NATO. There must be clarity about this before a serious assessment can be made and a decision taken. It is true that NATO today, in its objectives, actually deserves the attribute "NATO new". For the goals are mainly since the Petersberg decisions (cf.) It's quite clear. First of all, peacekeeping, peacekeeping and humanitarian aid. This means, of course, the protection of the members. This solidarity, including within the members of the European Union, is a matter that we can of course support, because it ultimately benefits us ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen! Conscious action presupposes that, while awaiting development, a decision has been taken thereafter, with Parliament's involvement, and it has been promised. In this respect, the Austrian Federal Government is as responsible to the country and its citizens as it is in the question of accession to the EU.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6335	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Still speaking time of her club: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6356	Ladies and gentlemen! I have been here in Parliament for many years and can therefore rightly say that, unfortunately, God is doing the same again and again when the opposition makes a request for the setting up of an investigation committee: The opposition makes the request, and the government is walling as well as it is. All the arguments that can be found are used for this. "Lucona" Committee: Seven times the opposition made a request! Noricum Investigation Committee: Six times the opposition had made a request before this committee of inquiry was finally set up! No one can say it didn't work out – quite the contrary: The "Lucona" Committee even led to a ministerial anchorage! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is like a political martyrdom to have a committee of inquiry here. Mr Fuhrmann! First, in the course of the application of the government defence mechanisms, the work of the independent courts is always taken into account. In this phase it is constantly repeated: Let us now examine the courts, which are called upon to do so. I say to you, however, that the courts are not called upon to review political responsibility. They are not competent when it comes to reviewing the ordinary political procedure. You know that as well as I do. The block mechanism is also evident if, for example, Mr Khol says: The ministers were honorary men who assumed their responsibility. They wanted the best for Austria. – Yes, but it is not the courts responsible when it comes to checking whether this was the best for Austria. A political body must check whether these ministers really wanted the best for Austria, Mr Khol. We need to look at what resources have been used by the ministers you quoted in order to get the best out for Austria. All possible proposals will be put forward for the purpose of decommissioning the Committees of Inquiry. For example, Minister Schüssel said: We want to clarify, but there are several ways to do that. And not all the ways are in accordance with parliamentary wishes. He also says that there is no common cause with state terrorism. – Well, then we want to check at parliamentary level whether everything has really been done against this state terrorism, to which we were obviously exposed. And, Mr Minister, we do not want isolated reports either, but we want a parliamentary committee of inquiry which is intended to review political responsibility. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Fuhrmann said: Three resorts are supposed to bring together all the files, and that's what we're looking at. - That's ridiculous. We don't want isolated files, we don't want isolated reports. We want a coherent investigation! On Mr Leikam's argument, we cannot ask for the files of Berlin, which contain the "Mykonos" judgment: We do not need this judgment in order to check the responsibility in Austria. We want to know: Have Austrian ministers contributed to the exercise of the right? Mr Klubobmann Kostelka says that the government did not have to be forced to present the files themselves. – This applies to the same thing as to the reports: You're going to give us what you want. We cannot at all verify whether that is true as well as what you are presenting to us. Mr Klubobmann Khol withdrew from the Rules of Procedure, which did not provide an appropriate framework for the Committee of Inquiry if he said: It's a spectacle, it's inhumane and so on and so on. They're all schina arguments. Tell me, please, why, like the devil, you are afraid of a committee of inquiry. I really want to know. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that a reason for us to have and to have an investigation committee is also the fact that we are examining: Was it necessary for reasons of the state that the right was exercised? If so, then we must also consider how we are breaking through the principle of legality in Austria in order to proceed in the future without any legal remedy in a situation threatening Austria. In any case, it was and is certainly not satisfactory how to proceed in the past. Even when it comes to "State Reason", we must not bend the right. This makes the rule of law unbelievable – and we do not want to contribute to that, but we parliamentarians should try to ensure that this rule of law is also clarified as to whether the law has actually been applied. If not, you have to fix it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6439	Mr Moser has referred to an actual correction. The Rules of Procedure are known. Deputies: 2 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6463	Mr President. From this point of view, Mr President, Mr König has said that the Liberal Forum, because no one has mentioned NATO to us yet, would agree with the statements of Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister. That's not right! It is true that, from our point of view, the Foreign Minister has just spoken before NATO – and not as a private person. This is also reflected in the press release. Further: This was a clear single approach, which we cannot accept, because this issue is too serious for us to be left exclusively to the Foreign Minister. We therefore call for a wide-ranging discussion, a form of opinion here in Parliament on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6496	The next speech is by Mr Mag. Barmüller before. 4 minutes remaining speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6518	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer to the statements made by the Federal Minister, Mr Schüssel, on what he said at the beginning of his speech in the direction of Mrs Schmidt, and he said that he did not need any instruction on human rights matters. – I know, Minister of State, you will rather be entertained than taught, but: The Liberals are not to be missed on human rights issues. We are very sensitive, even to the language that is being practiced. It was Mr Schüssel who said that there was a "kurden problem". – I ask you to think about it! There is no "curd problem" because the Kurds are not the problem, but the Kurds have a problem. This is done to them, not least by the Federal Governments, which are doing as it was in Austria in 1989. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on MEPs of the Greens.]] That is why I am not confident when Mr Khol tells me that there will be a report from the Federal Government. I am surprised that someone who responds so sensitively to crimes that happen in Austria and therefore wants to introduce the "great noise attack" – best everywhere and without exception, for example in law firms and in confession chairs – says that in this case the people concerned should control themselves and then pass the report on to Parliament. Mr Khol! I am surprised that you want to put all the innocent citizens in Austria at risk, but if it concerns you yourself, then you just want to have to deal with yourself and not let anyone look at the cards. This is a really doubly political argument that has now become your second nature! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would just like to take one case, which has also been referred to by Mr Anschober. Federal Minister Schüssel! ==References====External links== 7. In 1989 the Council of Ministers also discussed this issue, but unfortunately there were no new facts, and so you could not say or do anything about it. . Mr Anschober then has to put himself on this pult and quote you from files in order to prove – I am now briefly calling it the file note "Suzuki" – that you have already been faced with new cases, with a new situation! It can't be said that the justice of 19th century ==References== ==References====External links== The facts were clear. You should have known that there's more to it. I can therefore interpret your behaviour, Minister of State Schüssel, only in three ways – there is no longer any –: Either you are truly unbelievable in this whole matter, or you are unbelievable, or you can only be unbelievable! That is all that remains in this matter, and that is why we want a committee of inquiry here in Parliament. Mr Fuhrmann! It doesn't calm me at all that you come here and say: I don't understand this urgency why it appears right now! – If, in some way, someone had been asked to do such an investigation before the "Mykonos" judgment, you would have rightly said: The situation does not contain anything new, here there is nothing we should examine in this context! They know that only by this judgment has the sensitivity increased in this case, because it has been found that one of the causes is already located in Vienna in 1989. It didn't exist before! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann.]] I do not understand that a man like you, Mr Fuhrmann, who was a clubman, says: We make a report, we put all the files in the back and give them to the parliamentary clubs. I would like to know, on the basis of which legal basis You want to give the files to the parliamentary clubs. - I can't do that! That would be quite clear without any legal basis. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why I should also like to make a small reference to the new Rules of Procedure for Mrs Fekter, whose cover is blue: In § 33 para. It is clear and clear that courts and all authorities are obliged to follow a request from these committees, namely the Committee of Inquiry, when it comes to the collection of evidence: "All public offices shall submit their files upon request." – That's exactly what it's all about: I do not want pre-sorted files, I do not want to have to consult here in the House, which may not correspond to the entire file situation. And you know, Mr Fuhrmann,...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6589	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6604	... how often it happens that, if you want files, you don't get everyone. Ladies and gentlemen! We are convinced - this is my last sentence, Mr President - that you can delay this investigation committee, but you will not prevent it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6638	Mr Cap has been reported to speak. The remaining speaking time is 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6659	Mr President. High house! I think that today is a very good opportunity to also discuss the Rules of Procedure of the Committees of Inquiry in this House. I believe that we must not simply wipe this out of the table – there have already been some words in this direction here – because the experience shows that there has always been an attempt to present a pre-conception in the public in the protection of immunity. [[Abg. Wabl: Who prevented this?]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: We are not, Mr. Colleague.]] But this is an abuse, and one must face this abuse. That is why it is right to have a discussion on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Committees of Inquiry. In the past, it has also been repeatedly proved that abuse should be put behind it or at least tried, with the liberals being particularly gifted. Part of their general strategy is to criminalise politics and political opponents in order to ultimately attack the entire political system. This is their true background, which they are pursuing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Whenever the blue lawyer comes out in the form of Deputies Stadler, almost every third sentence he says contains any paragraphs, any accusation of crime, such as his image of this republic at all only consists of corruption and annihilation of the political representatives, the authorities and all those who act here. That's the concept behind it. And Jörg Haider is a faithful water carrier of the Ewald Stadler, if this is also brought in here. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] I come to the second point: It is no question that, when talking about political culture, banks and politics, one has to discuss whether the terms of the board of directors are not too high for some, whether there should be no more transparency, whether one should not talk about some kind of pension contract, whether there would have been calls for tenders in the case of posts. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is your way to discuss!]] You should not talk about this subject at all, because I only remember the one contract when you tried to organize the return of Jörg Haider in the medium term as the head of state in Carinthia; under item 12 of this Treaty: FPÖ and ÖVP agree on a common approach to human resources issues and on the election of the Chairpersons in subordinate bodies – in parentheses – for example in associations, advisory committees and the Landesgesellschafts such as KELAG or HYPO. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] So you probably also have a sense of how to agitate and transport into banks. [[Congratulations and Aha! call at the SPÖ.]] – That’s your moral understanding! That's your political understanding! And you want to play the moral renewer here and say: We have to investigate! In reality, you wanted to occupy all posts in Carinthia – I could read the whole text at all – I think even the meteorological station for weather care wanted to occupy you there. Everything you wanted to occupy! In any case, this is the best proof that you do not have the moral right to judge political culture here from the mouth of the speaker. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] Thirdly and last point: I think it was a self-shot into the "green knee" that the Greens invited Bani Sadr to Vienna. I say this from a very strong internal connection with the Green Group, which sometimes is not unsympathetic to me. But they brought back Bani-Sadr, who was the first and most important Prime Minister under Khomeini – if there was anything to investigate, it would be the activity of the Bani-Sadr itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In fact, Peter Pilz and Rudi Anschober should have called for an investigation committee against Bani-Sadr, who now wants to come back to Tehran somehow with the help of Pilz and Anschober. There you can only say: God, beware that the Bani Sadr will return to Iran. This punishment has not deserved this people. There he fell victim to one of Mullah's intrigues, and his fate did not come that way because he was the representative of democracy and the protector of the Kurds. [[Abg. Sit down, Cap!]] And that's where you want to make an investigation committee? – So, forget, this has failed today, new attempt and new start, but best on another topic, because what you have done here today was nothing!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6777	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6798	We are now negotiating the request made by Dr Schmidt and Comrades to set up an investigative committee on the review of the political responsibility of the Federal Government and suspected illegal influence by political agents in connection with the investigations on the murders of Abdullah Chad, Abdul-Rahman Ghassemlou and Fadel Rasoul on 13 December. July 1989 and the persecution of three of these serious suspects, who, despite clear indications, could leave Austria unblemished. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6845	The debate has not been called for nor has it been decided. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall continue to negotiate the request of Mr Anschober and Comrades to set up an investigation committee on the investigation of the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free exit of the perpetrators concerning the murder of the then chairman of the DPK-I Dr. Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou and his two confidants, in particular whether and what instructions were issued in view of the threats of Iran's release of "documents on the illegal Austrian arms supplies in the first Gulf War" as claimed by the former President of Iran Bani-Sadr. Since this request has also been distributed to all Members of Parliament, reading by the author does not need to be done. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6907	Nor was it necessary or decided on this request for a debate. We shall therefore come to the vote immediately on the request by Mr Anschober and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades to set up an investigation committee to examine: 1. the political and legal responsibility for the underprivileged arrest and the inadequate criminal prosecution of the murderers of Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou, Fadel Rasoul and Abdullah Ghaderi-Azar in Vienna; and 2. political and legal responsibility for the escape of the further suspects to the Starkstrommast near Ebergassing. This request has also been distributed to all Members, so that reading by a writer does not need to be done. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e6980	The debate was neither required nor decided on in this request. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Finally, we come to the debate on the request made by Mr Dr. Haider and Mr Comrades to set up an investigation committee to examine political and legal responsibility in the context of 1. with the appointment of management functions of banks in the sphere of public policy; 2. with political influence on the activities of these banks; 3. with regard to export financing and export guarantees, and 4. with price agreement of the main Austrian commercial banks. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The reading by a writer therefore does not need to be done. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7068	We are now going into the debate. According to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes available to the first speaker for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretarys shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The debate is closed. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7096	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate has already shown us that there is a certain lack of reality among the two government parties, because they are acting as if the applications for the setting up of committee of inquiry were only an arbitrary act of opposition, because the opposition would not be allowed to be profiled. And that in view of the situation that a former member of the national companies, Dr. Woltron, on television, stated that the news of tragic death might be reported. Praschaks scared him. She – I quote – "is thoughtful and a reason to consider the fate of a high official in a cynical, deeply dishonest and humane system, according to my own experience. ... It is therefore unfair to say that policy in these institutions has nothing to say." "The officials are on the rise and ruin of these swings and eyelashes, depending on the grace of political leaders, who, however, never openly declare themselves and indirectly rule over several levels." - That's what one who's heard it right away. This is also the reason why we have tabled this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. You – the government – should be given the opportunity to show you that you have nothing to hide. Together, it aims to break down a deeply corrupt political system in the context of state and political banks and to organize and reorganise them in the interests of taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am saying this because the system is corrupt. Ask yourself the question as to how it was possible for the head of the control bank to turn off money for years and place it on accounts, which should then be added to a special use – to the extent of more than 200 million schilling – and that tax-free! These are private funds, and this money may even have landed in the party funds. Therefore, it is also clear that the person who does not play – in the sense that Woltron has said – simply threatens himself. Mr Praschak became a security risk because he wanted to clean up these things. He had also put a reform concept on the table. Yes, he became a security risk, as was confirmed in the talks! Mr. Cap can come with his paper from Carinthia as he wants: This is about suicide, it is about the fatal consequence that a person has put under brutal political pressure. However, it is also about the interest of Austrian taxpayers, because that a Mr Scholten has been forced into the control bank by the Federal Chancellor to act as the third director of the board of directors, not only has he to do with the supply of Mr Scholten, but he wanted reliable people there to ensure that everything remains under the spell that the question of tax evasion of 200 million schilling is not put to the discussion that the issue of East credits can never be seriously discussed in Parliament and in the public. Therefore, the "trustful" schools of red and the "trustful" breaths of black had to come into these functions. Attems has already been profiled before, as we know, for he was for a long time the secretary of Mr. Hashek, the predecessor as head of the control bank. If you look at these East aid stories – to name just one example – you can see that the Court of Auditors always brings the same criticism in the examination of the history of East aid, hotel buildings and industrial business start-ups, which is also justified here. The Court of Auditors said about the liability of the municipality of Vienna that the projects were given to those companies that are close to SPÖ and ÖVP. There were overprices, there were no public tenders, and the selection of project applicants was based on political calculation. That's what's going on here, too. The document that Praschak left behind – he describes how he should be put under pressure because he was not willing to assume liability for a failed hotel project – is one of many, where the same people always appear: Mr. Baumeister Grassi, a prominent socialist builder in Vienna, who was equipped with east aid funds, Mr. Jurkovitsch von der Warimpex, a prominent friend of the left half of the empire, Mr. Folian of Warimpex and also ex-minister Schmidt, of course also a socialist. These rulers have taken the responsibility of the Republic for their projects, which they have then declared failed. It is also true of the hotel project referred to by Praschak. It is a hotel project, the "Hotel Diplomat" in Prague, which became necessary and contains over 100 million schillings. The Bank Austria is the financier, of course the bank's own company Porr is the builder, and of course the Bank Director of Bank Austria is interested in the Republic of Austria taking over liability, and thus the Control Bank carries the striking credit risk. Why? – Because its Austrian transport office, in which Bank Austria and ÖCI are involved with 62 percent, is Interestingly the new operator of this necessary hotel. Therefore, pressure was exerted on a director Praschak, who then demonstrated to the head of the export of Bank Austria whether his employees were going through because they were not willing to secure 100 million schilling in addition. Yes, it could harm his career, and he was supposed to let the new ownership conditions pass through his head, because now the CA is also under the control of Bank Austria. – So that’s how it is spoken! And all this is not a reason for you to think about whether you should really use a committee that examines all these Eastern loans? Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You yourself have always opposed this system. I know a lot of your conversations. You have a system here, Mr President, if Parliament were given the chance to really examine it. Otherwise that won't be the case! When contracts are concluded here, where it is sufficient for the Bank's financial consortium to make only the notification that the loans are in need, or that the company that managed the project is in favour of – and then the money is required. But for this to happen always – regardless of whether it is the Austrian control bank or the city of Vienna – the taxpayer! And he can't even know where the money went! A ban on where the money went. There is a suspicion of party financing; otherwise you would not be so silent by the ÖVP. You seem to have gotten your share, too. In other words, they would not be so silent about these issues, but would agree to the setting up of an investigation committee. There is also the possibility that bank-owned construction companies have done large business in an incredible way and, so to speak, should be paid off by the taxpayer. This is a risk of 70 billion schilling, and if this risk is to be hit, it will not only have to be paid by the Austrian taxpayers, but you will have to get that from somewhere else in terms of the Maastricht criteria, because it is all no longer working. Why are you opposed to really clarifying these things? Why vote It does not agree to the establishment of a committee of inquiry which: Is there not really a danger here in delay – especially in all these paintings? Is it not necessary to privatise and democratize the banking structure in such a way that there is no concentration of power in the hands of a few less? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You broke the contract with us when we wanted to privatize it! You broke the contract, gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You signed a contract with Mr Randa. This Mr. Randa is President of the Board of Stock Exchanges, he is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Austrian Control Bank, the Credit Institution, of Voith, of Perlmooser, and he is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bank Burgenland AG, Investment Bank-Austria AG, General Construction Company Porr AG. (cf.) He is also a member of the Supervisory Board of the Vienna City, at the Austrian Investment Credit, at the GiroCredit, at the Interaccident Insurance, at VOEST Alpine Technology, at Radex-Heraklith, at the Austrian Automobile Factory ÖAF,....
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7177	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7192	... at Liebherr Austria. I can't read all of this, because Randa has just as many supervisory functions as Esso Austria, the Liebherr-Werk Bischofshofen, on real estates – and he will soon also become General Council of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, and that due to a deal your Mr. Schüssel with the Mr. Klima on the night of the 12. It was signed by Randa in January 1997. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why you don't want any information! We appeal to you: Jump They are above your political shadow and allow Parliament to finally eliminate this greatest corruption – and that for many years!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7232	The maximum speaking time for each Member is now 5 minutes. Mr Dr. Novotny is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7256	Mr President. High house! I find this debate, as it is being held here, macabre and, in fact, unworthy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That you do not generate!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] You don't feel that way! I do not want to comment at all on the fact that you, with a cynicism, are trying without any equal to a tragic death case, because that is already talking to you. You don't have to say a word anymore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I also think it is difficult to ask for legislation on the structure of banking now. Obviously, however, only that can be the meaning of an investigation committee – unless you just want to use it as a vehicle for agitation. Some of the words of Dr. Haider were also very revealing. It is true that we are currently undergoing a massive structural change in Europe, in Austria, in the banking sector. But it is also right for Ferdinand Lacina to point out that this structural change does not only concern the top managers, but also that our special participation and our duty to take care of the smaller and medium-sized employees, who are often still much harder affected by this structural change. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Leave the crocodiles!]] I also see the danger of some of these deaths being abused in order to strike old battles here again. Mr Haider referred to ominous contracts he wanted to conclude with the ÖVP. This is precisely the case for those who want to take this tragic event as a reason for the rapid and unconditional delivery of public ownership to credit firms. I would like to maintain this in principle – Chancellor Climate and Minister of Finance Edlinger have stressed this several times – that the question of whether a company is private or in public ownership is not an ideological issue for us. It is not a fundamental question, but it is in each case to be assessed according to Austrian interest and according to the interest from the point of view of the Austrian economy as a whole. There are companies where you can say: It does not matter who the owner is, and it also does not matter whether this is private or stately, and therefore, of course, it can be completely privatized. We had such cases. However, there are also a number of companies in which it is very important for us that Austrian property and therefore Austrian influence are permanently secured. I believe that this is part of the banking sector and credit companies in particular. In no country in the world – not in the USA, not in Germany, not in Switzerland – it would be permissible for large credit companies to be not under domestic but foreign influence. This is simply a fact that you need to take note of when you act pragmatically and not just ideologically. We have only seen in Austria about half a year ago that, in view of the scale of the matter, it is de facto not possible to privatise large companies, without the risk that there will actually be foreign influence. We are quite prepared to do so and have also committed ourselves to the fact that the federal government is handing over its share of Bank Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't believe that! Not even your own people believe that! You're just about the party bank! I'm sorry! You already believe in your own propaganda!]] Provisions are also made within the framework of the municipality of Vienna. But we must not lose sight of this objective of keeping this important area under Austrian influence, in the interests of the Austrian economy! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! I think this is very strange at all: In this House you have not even explained two weeks ago – and especially the honourable Member Haider has criticized the vehement – that Austrian companies are being sold abroad. And you even referred to companies that were private companies, where the state could not intervene at all. Now it doesn't matter to you at all whether you're abroad or not. In any case, you say, you have to be privatized – and you even take a full interest in foreign affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, you can change your mind. But in such a short time to claim the opposite of what one has previously demanded, that is already an evil strategist for your "belief". And you will certainly not be left unharmed!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7343	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7358	Mr President. We are ready for a serious discussion on structural issues. I can quite imagine that we are also holding this debate in the Financial Committee. However, we are absolutely not in favour of using a committee of inquiry as an instrument that serves only party political polemics. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Just like the banking secret you don't put on the agenda!]] We will certainly not give in to such a "compulsory exercise"!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7400	The next speech is by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7421	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In this application for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, one tries to give the impression that the tragic events of Dr. Gerhard Praschak's free death are part of our political system. – Ladies and gentlemen! I reject this allegation with all my determination! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is rather true – and this should be admitted honestly, if you look around in the world – that it is the last remains of a system of socialist government that has failed worldwide, is in retreat worldwide, and that does not belong to the future in our country, Mr. Novotny! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Moscow!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have proved together that we can privatize very successfully. That means: Retirement of the state economy, Mr. Novotny! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a beautiful confession, but...!]] I would also like to say very clearly to Mr Haider's address: Mr. Haider wants to appear here today as the "great roofer of the nation", but he did on 14 May. In this year's debate on CA sales, the following speakers have explained: Dr. Randa informed me about this three weeks before the ÖVP! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Ah look here!]] This transaction results in a lot of 'Sinn', Mr. Haider! – And today you're playing the nation's discoverer?- Oh, my God! That's extreme disbelief, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the liberals: That's awful, this speech!]] Let me also make a comment on a regulatory nature. I have already said that this is about the last remains of a system that is in withdrawal worldwide, namely the system of a state economy. The future really does not belong to such a system, but to the fundamental values for which we have been representing the People's Party for many years. That means: more private and less state! That means: more decentralised, more self-responsible – and less state centralism! [[Call the SPÖ:And more abroad!]] That means: greater transparency and less opacity! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: More Raiffeisen!]] That means: Post registration instead of post chess!, and that also means: Performance instead of political protection, ladies and gentlemen. This is the future worldwide – and of course also in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've been on the 14th. January this year, in the debate on Bank Austria and CA, has been explained here from this speaker's point of view, and I can only repeat that I do not like the Rules of Procedure if a party has a bank, but I do not want a bank to hold a party, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Neither!]] In other words, it can be very easy to find what has just been shown in the economic magazine "trend", namely that the consul of this bank is at the same time the consul of the Republic, namely the Minister of Finance. An intolerable inconsistency, ladies and gentlemen! I would not have believed that there was such a thing! A journalist called me a week ago, and she wanted to know what I was saying. My answer was: I hear this for the first time, and I can't believe it. – Now it turns out that it was apparently such a double consul: at the same time for the bank and for the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to prevent this with our code of honor, which is based on the values I have just mentioned. And that's why in these 17 points on the "CA deal" we have tried to make a difference, which should go in the direction where we mean: It's fair and clean. Our party observer Wolfgang Schüssel today stated that we are already on the road well on some of these points, but that we must also be very vigilant so that the other points are realized. I too would like to remind you very clearly of two points. The first point concerns the Federal share of 19 percent of Bank Austria. These are – in the widest possible distribution – still to be privatized this year. I urge that point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also recommend the second point, namely the fidelity solution for the voting rights of AVZ and Wiener Holding. And as a third point I urge the issue of the previous CA shares in investment credit and control bank. – This serves to decentralise a power conglomeration that you, Mr Haider, approved here! Play So you're not the discoverer today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Are we going to abolish Parliament – or what?]] In the matter itself, therefore, we are opposed to a committee of inquiry, Mr Haider – and I have been in Parliament for a long time – because we do not want the complainants and judges to be united in one person. But that was your pattern of behaviour in such committees. For me, media justice, pre-condemnification and slander are not elements of a rule of law, Mr Haider! That is why we reject a committee of inquiry on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7613	The next speech is by Mr Krüger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7635	Mr President. High house! We have heard many times today that we Members of the House are being praised for the laws of this Republic. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. If you represent this general thesis, which causes you to argue against the fundamental rejection of an investigation committee, you are clearly opposed to the Austrian legislation and to the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You play as a complainant and judge!]] Mr Khol! It's really weird: They stand here as a saint, stand before this speaker's pulpit, and believe that an investigation committee cannot even be held by the witnesses who have been consulted there. – Mr Khol, where is your connection with Christian values? It is about the suicide of a banker, about a suicide that was committed, not for private reasons, but solely for political reasons. You, Mr Khol, have – prophylactically – pity for witnesses who can be heard and who may have mood impulses, but do not think of the free death of Gerhard Praschak! And you don't think about the family of Gerhard Praschak! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the comments by Mr Novotny. He said it was macabre and cynical to talk about Gerhard Praschak's free death here. – I say to you: It is cynical if one does not redeem the political legate, the Praschak has given to the House, the political leaders and the public. Dr. Praschak was your party comrade. I think it is highly deplorable if you now want to go over to the agenda and pretend that nothing would have happened, although Mr Praschak has just given this legate to the House. It's not like we're playing decks here today. And even if you repeat it so often, my colleague: We are fulfilling the mandate of someone who has failed in the political system, in particular social democracy, but also the ÖVP, namely this puppet system, and who has condemned this system so that something can be done here in this House and in our Republic. [[Complaints with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a small matter to be given such important functions in our Republic or in the banking landscape through such puppet games. It's not a small thing if you don't carry out a call and say: There is an ex-minister, that is, schools, and he has to be provided, and if he does not bow down to this diktat, we will make his feet. – Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly the distress that Gerhard Praschak saw himself in, which should be suddenly made a wild object of your manipulations and your desire for power. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, of course, it does not surprise the "learned Austrian", even us parliamentarians of the opposition at all, if you once again refuse to approve the establishment of such a parliamentary committee of inquiry. This is a political exchange business for you from SPÖ and ÖVP: The SPÖ helps the ÖVP to cover up the information about the processes of the so-called Kurden murders. The ÖVP, in turn, helps the SPÖ to clarify the backgrounds and the consequences of Gerhard Praschak's free death. An old political game! Please do not try to make the public credible, however, that you are for democratic policy reasons, for reasons of democratic "hygiene" against the establishment of an investigation committee! On the cold track – and that's the problem! – you want to eliminate the rules of procedure for setting up a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7697	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7719	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal is one of five options. I would like to remind you at the head of my speech today that there is no doubt in the Austrian banking landscape that there is one thing or another that urgent clarification needs. We have therefore suggested from our group, immediately after the tragic trigger of today's debate and we also had information, that the shareholders concerned should make use of the possibility that there is in each stock company to decide, without delay, a special stock review for ourselves, to use independent auditors and thus to take over the means of private rights. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] What happened? – The shareholders, of course, did not make use of this possibility, even though a majority decision of the shareholders would not have been necessary to do so. Any shareholder with more than 10 percent participation in an institution can enforce this alone. What is the political conclusion of this? – The shareholders of the Austrian Control Bank seem to have no interest in tackling the possibilities of commercial self-cleaning. Variant 2: The prosecutor's office must be consulted. – The procedure is under way. Variant 3: Banking supervision could have become active. – Nothing of that can be seen. Variant 4: Tax evasions and hidden profit distributions were in the room. Nothing would be more logical, it was a different company than to put the funds of the financial audit on this House immediately. – You don't notice anything about it. It is therefore perfectly legitimate to wish that, if the other funds are not used, the resources of the parliamentary inquiry will be used. And that's why all the arguments that one should have done otherwise seem to be inconvenient. If the main subjects do not use the means which they could have used completely independently and without the participation of the public hand, namely the special stock review, then they have something to hide. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Since the whole structure, which is concerned here, is moving more or less almost exclusively in the public sphere, it is right and reasonable that we should put on from Parliament the possibilities of a committee of inquiry, like that, I say, because there is a second request. I can't quite follow Mr Novotny. Mr Novotny! It is not a question of beating political little money out of any specific individual fate, but what is being debated here today is actually a finding that every expert in the Republic of Austria could have been able to create for himself for many, many years. My colleague was not very convincing when he opened up the fork for privatisation, because he did not mention the party influence. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't pay attention to that!]] They have already dealt with the question of bank – party, but the real problem is not so much public property, but the way in which the political parties deal with public property. Of course, we also believe that a continuous privatisation would be a solution, but if you do not also suspend the staff structures of privatisation, if you call solutions such as club savings a la first a privatisation, although that would have been a privatized politicization, then, I think, you are on the way, because the structural issues of the Austrian banking landscape are not identical to the questions of human filtration in the Austrian banking landscape. And the questions of the Austrian economy, which Mr Novotny mentioned, are not well raised in the hands of party secretariats. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7768	There is yet another speech by Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7790	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap! You have made a very funny contribution, or at least a half-lusty one – the reference to the FPÖ was very correct anyway – you just forgot to submit and read the contract between SPÖ and FPÖ. That was kind of a little failure. I would have asked for this, but I believe that Mr Haider has given him the assurance that he has become a little more generous in recent times. He thinks I can't do it with them anyway because they don't comply with the contracts. Whether this is the case with Mr Khol, who is now distributing nasal rings, I do not know, but I do not think that Mr Khol has any more signatures, because he – I have noticed recently – always has problems with whether they apply. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For years we have been experiencing a strange process in this house: We are in one of the most important committees, namely the main committee, and there are some remarkable figures presented by the Minister of Finance: 1 billion for China, half a billion for Egypt, 500, 600 million for Yugoslavia, 300 million for Pakistan and so on. On the question of the opposition, which should be with these funds, for which these funds are intended, this House hears and hears these Members: These are business and business secrets. Ladies and gentlemen! The Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection regularly decide on a billion-dollar amount of tax money, and the Republic is responsible for those transactions that are under discussion today, here and now. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, you, the savior of the free market economy, who sang the song of the downfall of the socialist economy here! In 1986 your party responded to that body sitting at the Ministry of Finance to join this large, thick, fat cake. In 1986 you took this after you were back in the government and replaced the FPÖ there. This is the decline of the socialist economy, in which you are obviously well deserved. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not enough that this House should not even ask what these billions are used for – no, that is not enough – not enough to ensure that ÖVP and SPÖ are safe in coalition agreements and in bilateral agreements, so that this SPÖ area and this ÖVP area can take advantage of these rich funds for which this State is liable, not enough, no, we also have a bank in Austria, which is 60 percent owned by that institution, namely the control bank, which is over the admissibility and risk of such transactions. Ladies and gentlemen! The Executive Board of one of the most important economic policy institutions commits suicide and leaves behind a political will. I cannot judge the reasons which have led these people to act in this way, but I can certainly judge one thing: that democracy is obviously missing, that control is missing and that humanity is obviously too humane. Ladies and gentlemen! If this House accepts that we continue to blindly decide on billions of amounts, then I consider an investigation to be a task of this House, and if a newspaper such as the "Salzburger Nachrichten" – and I do not think that this newspaper is either a Revolverblatt or an Ordinary Newspaper – refers to the "frate of the Injustice State" and refers to all these processes, then I would like to know whether there is behind this question by Mr Khol, by Mr Randa, by Mr Kostelka, by Mr Klima or by others. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Scholten!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I want to know. Perhaps the radiant heroes have only acted in the sense of the Republic. Perhaps these are the heroes who have guarded the Austrians from taking hostages in Iran. Perhaps these are the heroes who have put in place important economic policies in China, Prague, Hungary, Kazakhstan. Maybe it is. But this House, ladies and gentlemen, has the right to control and review these things. A committee of inquiry is the right instrument for this. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Khol! A sentence on your extremely ordinal note on the procedure of the committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7855	Deputies! Your speaking time has expired. The sentence must be very short.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7874	Deputies! First, prevent reforming these procedures and then say: Unfortunately, we cannot use this procedure because it is not sufficient for the rule of law. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You prevented it!]] This is your policy of concealment and cover-up, and the frat gets uglyer.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7920	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. I ask you to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall vote on the request of Mr Dr. Haider and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We now come to the debate on the request made by Mr Van der Belen and Mr Comrades for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to examine the political responsibility and influence of bodies of execution in connection with the German Federal Government's acceptance of liability for the export of the Austrian Control Bank. In the meantime, the request has been distributed to all Members so that a reading by the author is not necessary. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e7989	We are going into the debate. I would like to point out once again that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time is up to 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Comments from members of the Federal Government and from state secretaries should also not exceed 10 minutes. I am now speaking as the first speaker and applicant to Mr Dr Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member. Your speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e8016	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Dear Ewald Nowotny! It is not a question of piety or cynicism, it is simply a question of the structure of the banking system and, in particular, of the structure of the control bank. The whole story is broken up in connection with the death of Mr. Praschak, but he wasn't anyone, he was the Chief Executive Officer of the Control Bank. What problem is it about? – I try to describe this very cool: The OeKB, i.e. the Oesterreichische Control Bank, is the Federal Commissioner in certain matters, in accordance with the Export Promotion Act. Indeed, the way in which this mandate is carried out has become a very, very strange light through the political legacy – if one wants to do so – of Mr Praschak. The problems are in themselves old and well-known, but they have now become acute. Executive Director Praschak ultimately refers mainly to the conflicts of interest between banks on the one hand and the control bank on the other. These conflicts of interest are not only abstract, but also based on concrete examples and cases of business which have already been mentioned today. The impression that we have to get is that the banks want to make the profit, so to speak, the risk remains with the control bank, and thus, of course, with the federal government or with the taxpayer. If you look at the structure of the control bank, it is not surprising that this impression arises: The customers of the Control Bank are the banks, the owners of the Control Bank are the banks, the Supervisory Board of the Control Bank is sent by the banks, and the Supervisory Board takes the personnel decisions regarding the Board of Management of the Control Bank. So if that doesn't suggest conflicts of interest, I don't know what else would be necessary. This is not a question of Pietät, that is not a question of cynicism, and in this context it is also entirely no matter whether the Executive Director of the Control Bank is called Scholten or Hintermaier. The problem exists, and it is currently particularly striking that Bank Austria has taken over CA in January and now has over 60% of the voting rights in the Control Bank and that the Supervisory Board President is none other than Director-General Randa, who in turn exerts significant influence on personnel decisions in the Control Bank. This situation, I believe, is, in fact, unbearable, completely independent of the will of Mr Praschak and also, regardless of whether or not the information contained therein is a priority. They are most likely not invented freely. This is not about any bagatelle cases, here it is about hundreds of billion schilling of liability. And if only 5 percent or even 1 percent of these liability acquisitions are problematic, we are talking about a few billion schilling. What's a committee of inquiry for? – The question is justified. Volker Kier has already responded. What else? Banks will not be required to carry out an audit of the control bank's shares, because they will cut themselves into their own meat. The information contained in the main committee is unsatisfactory and insufficient. It's known. The Court of Auditors itself does not address the relevant information. Banking supervision has so far been inactive, and it is also not obvious that it could solve this problem. However, a committee of inquiry which has the right to invite people and question them under the obligation of truth could actually reveal this felt. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e8067	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). From now on, the speaking time for each Member is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e8092	Mr President. High house! Mr Van der Bellen! I'm right to give you the right to do the construction of the control bank and, above all, the way you represent the client... – He doesn't listen to me. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: You don't hear anything at all because everyone screams like that!]] Maybe the applicant listens to me. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Your colleagues are not listening.]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Van der Bellen! I am in the process of giving you the right to do so in terms of the construction of the control bank and the current composition of customer, client and, ultimately, control. I am also of your opinion that this is to be changed, because that is the very problem. Only: This cannot change an investigation committee, but it must be changed in the design. I am also entirely of your opinion as to the role of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Directors of Randa – but not only of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board there. Mr President, Randa is a superman. It is based in a total of 20 Supervisory Boards and has at the same time five responsible Executive Board positions. I am simply inexplicable how this can be done by a single person alone. [[Calls of the Abg. Swim and Leikam.]] It is also unbearable, ladies and gentlemen, that in this construction, for example, Mr Randa, at the same time, in the Supervisory Board of the AVZ, he and his Supervisory Boards are appointed. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Your country group has participated!]] All of this, ladies and gentlemen, has the Austrian People's Party as the only party on the 14th. January 1997 presented here in this room. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] You, Mr Klubobmann Dr. Haider, have agreed, as my colleague, with Mr Randa, as he has said, three weeks before the purchase, before the announced offer of Bank Austria. That would obviously have been the reason why the Freedom Party then finally opposed this construction quite positively. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] The same applies to the Liberal Forum in this House. In the sense of a European solution, one has suddenly voted in favour of this acquisition of the credit institution by Bank Austria and finally agreed to a "ruralization" – a process that is completely incompatible with a liberal thought. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the dramatic events surrounding the suicide of Executive Director Praschak and his legacy have shown that there are still remains of a socialist state economy and people acting there. This, ladies and gentlemen, has clearly shown the Austrian People's Party as the only party in January of this year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me repeat: We will also not stop showing this, for so long, until those demands which we have already met on the 14th. In January 1997, the Bank of Austria deposited here, namely: this year, the sale of the federal shares of 19 percent to the Bank of Austria in a wide range, the withdrawal of the politics or the city of Vienna from the AVZ and a new construction of the control bank in 1997. As Mr Van der Bellen has already pointed out, it has been shown that the current construction of the control bank does not in any way help to bring light into the dark of these operations.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e8216	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e8237	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting that in the course of this debate, the ÖVP sent out two speakers here after Mr Haider had accused the ÖVP of using it in this banking area for the purpose of party financing, but that no one speaker has said a syllable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Smoke-Kallat: Because Haider lies!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] That's significant. Obviously, the rulers already know what there is in documents about it. Her bad conscience seems to plague her properly! Instead of that, Mr President, he comes out stupidly and tells us that he does not want an investigation committee because he does not want perpetrators and judges to be the same. – Haven Is that what you mean to us, Mr. Colleague stupid? Ah, yeah? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Who is responsible for the death of Mr. Praschak? Who? Don't you enjoy your stupid comparison?- Oh, my God! Who has tried in this country, in this bank with Mr Randa, to withdraw taxes: the government or the opposition? Who let the Kurds escape? Who's responsible for this? My colleague, you are stupid! Who's responsible for this?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further lively calls at the ÖVP.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Enjoy your stupid comparison! You should at least... - Oh, Mr. Abkassier, a man who has benefited from this system since he has been politically active at all! [[Intercessions by Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Puttinger and Dr. Leiner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Who blessed Randa's business?- Oh, my God!]] There he sits up and tears up his mouth, ladies and gentlemen! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] You should be ashamed of the dead who accuses this system! Not we are the perpetrators. A dead man charges you! A dead person charges the SPÖ, a dead person charges this system, a dead person demands detection – and a dead person leaves documents with which you are heavily burdened by the SPÖ and you by the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: A hypocrites language!]] That's the facts! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Praschak writes: "The mill is closed." [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You were in charge of Bank Austria!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Randa kept in touch with you! Randa came to you in November!]] - I'll tell you what I'll tell you. That's right, Mr. Abkassier Swimmer! The Austrian People's Party took part in the meeting of the National Council on 14 February. In January 1997, a request for strengthening the rights of minority shareholders at Bank Austria was rejected. It rejected a request for the rapid privatisation of companies and parts of companies still in state ownership. It has rejected a federal law to amend the National Bank Act. She refused what you had three days before, on behalf of Khol, stupid and Farnleitner, signed by your secretary, Mr. Khol! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] You were able to do so before the negotiations you had with Mr Vrannitzky at the time, which you found "to be puke," which are your words, not mine! – not at all expecting that this pact – which you have then adopted again – will be publicly confirmed. ==References== Yes, you have rejected your own requests! – This is the Austrian People’s Party, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You are unbelievable!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Absolutely unbelievable!]] [[Further calls from Deputies Dr. Lukesch and Dr. Schwimmer.]] This is the Austrian People's Party of Dualness, the adoption of its own signatures, that is, the verbatim Austrian People's Party, which today again casts its ears for something that the Socialists have to answer. The ÖVP regularly collects the ear figs. The Socialists are producing a scandal, people are already shooting, and the ÖVP is standing down and cassing their ears for it, ladies and gentlemen. It's a party! Such a coalition partner can only be desired, ladies and gentlemen. I too am slowly convinced that you are a practical coalition partner, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, although I have long had doubts about it. But, Mr President, foolishly, to make a dead person feel as you did, that is really the last-class thing. You have mocked the legacy of Mr. Praschak out here – and you should be ashamed of that! Mr Praschak said that he had to make room for Mr Scholten so that he could be provided. [[The speaker holds up photocopies of Dr. Praschak's original handwritten writing.]] This is his own manuscript, not ours! Mr Scholten must be cared for. Mr Scholten must be provided in a bank where a third position must be created – in a bank, which has lost 80 percent of its territory since accession to the EU, but which suddenly needs to be provided for the brother of the Loge Scholten. That's the background. And a representative of the Austrian People's Party stands out here and mocks a man who has become victims of this system, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Scholten would have to go out of here and apologize publicly to the family and the dead if he had a spark. Mr Scholten told Mr Praschak that there is "Zoff" – original document by Mr Praschak, Mr Stumvoll! – and he will play the "political card". If the Austrian population has no right to know what this "political map" is, and what in this case is to be understood as "fare", then not only do you detest these dead ones, but then you are deceiving Parliament and thus the entire Austrian public!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e8448	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e8469	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I was originally of the opinion that Mr Van der Bellen's request, which, in fact, has been very reticent solely on the question of the political responsibility and influence of institutions of enforcement and so on, will perhaps ensure that rest is restored here. But what does the colleague smoke-callat do? – She is polemizing, and that is beyond the truth for miles! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: The CA dealer Kier makes big waves!]] As Mr Rauch-Kallat has here called for the ÖVP to be the only party that would have had clear positions in relation to Mr Randa, I must add: The positions of the ÖVP in connection with Bank Austria were always very clear, that is right! We have learned this in Vienna in the context of the coalition negotiations on the election of the new mayor. There it turned out that the ÖVP had not intended for a second to risk its vice-president, Mr Görg and her cultural city councillor, Marboe, and thus perhaps to achieve that depoliticization is indeed taking place in the Bank of Austria. That would have been the time when you could have put it through. Beautiful statements on Sunday, Sunday's speeches à la Rauch-Kallat do not help in this matter, if the corresponding majority of the public owners, the municipality of Vienna, are not made to initiate a reform. I am also right if the federal shares are privatized by 19 percent, but these are not the problem of Bank Austria, the share management and so on. That the municipality of Vienna has significant influence, that is the problem, there is the rabbit in the pepper! In this respect, however, the ÖVP has signed a government agreement with the SPÖ in Vienna, which does not mention the privatisation of Bank Austria. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You were for it!]] Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! If you don't know what's going on in your Vienna party, that's your problem as a Secretary-General – but don't bother us with this speaker's hand! [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Kukacka! You can tell me what you want here as a representative of a country that – in the style of the OKA – is driving with the public economy Schindluder. We have always demanded that these banks be privatized, but with reason, measure and objective. Her disappointment at the time in January had quite another reason: They were disappointed because the CA could not be exploited politically by your, exclusively black-dominated, First Austrian Saving Cass. That was the reason for your trouble, and I can understand it from your point of view. But from the point of view of a Member responsible for the economy, I think: I am all better, we now have a stock bank that can be reformed, as a clumsy club bank, in which exclusively private members à la colleague Schüssel – who had to admit from the government bank that he is a club member there – have the saying, a bank that makes in the form of a closed-shop union exclusively party policy. That was the jumping point. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: They were for the CA sale!]] We Liberals are of the opinion: If public property is mistreated, policies are required either to separate themselves from public property or to take organisational measures to remedy it. We call for all of this – and we would like to use research committees to do so. We also believe: the more private, the better. The ÖVP, which has been ruling here since 1986, has not taken any serious privatisation steps for eleven years. You of the ÖVP only started in 1987 with the so-called privatisation of the electricity industry, and your party has written into the law that the federal government can only separate with a two-thirds majority from its shares in the public EVUs. This was the privatisation step à la ÖVP. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You can't wash yourself in!]] To have to hear such a thing from such a party is a shame! – The more you shout, the more give [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] You're right, for whoever is wrong has no means to shout. If you don't have any arguments, keep yelling. It's the style that's much better suited to your party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e8597	There is now a speech by Mrs Dr Petrovic. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e8619	The more the government parties – especially the ÖVP – get wrong, the louder they shout. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The Wabl always screams like that!]] This Committee of Inquiry, which my colleague Mr Van der Bellen has requested, concerns the influence of bodies of execution in connection with the acceptance of liability in the export promotion of the Austrian Control Bank. If you think you've always acted correctly in the past, I'm really asking you: What prevents you from agreeing to this committee of inquiry? – The Control Bank is a bank which ultimately assumes liability for the Republic of Austria, i.e. on behalf of taxpayers. This bank is dominated in its organs by the largest Austrian bank, Bank Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: That's where you were!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Were you for it or not?- Oh, my God!]] - Let me continue. I emphasize: It makes no difference at all who holds the shares of this bank as long as the conduct is discharged without political control as it is now. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] It may be a private institution or a member of a local authority: It doesn't make any difference. The real scandal is that Do not let anyone look behind the scenes – not the main committee and not this House. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! You're putting a lot in here. You can enjoy a lot, although you know that things are different. You know who is in the Advisory Council under the Export Promotion Act. You know that there are representatives of the Industrial Association, the Federal Chamber of Commerce, the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture and all economic sectors among the ministers of the ÖVP. You know that these bodies are included in each individual case of business of the Bank. You and your party, which is now saying that these are the remains of the socialist, the state economic system, can even be mocked here, although you know that it is different, just because apparently a deal was made. This deal was also referred to by Mrs Krawagena-Pfeifer as a silent deal: no committee of inquiry, no committee of inquiry Kurden-Morden. That's what this deal looks like. For this you even commit political reconciliations, take for it It is quite clear that you are buying false arguments because you want to prevent any kind of committee of inquiry. That's the real reason. A review of the Court of Auditors has been carried out in the course of the operations of the Control Bank, but it has been a few years ago. [[Abg. Arbitrator: By the Court of Auditors!]] What has the Court of Auditors found? It has come to the conclusion that, because of the political system that dominates there, the political risks in some transactions should not be seen at all. For example, in connection with transactions with contracting partners in the former Eastern Bloc States, there has been a mis-evaluation of the political risk which has led to a failure to see this political risk. Human rights can be suppressed for quite a long time, but not always, not permanently. Dealing with such regimes has ultimately also led to financial losses. However, because there is a political risk in dealing with China, Iran, Iraq and so on, the Advisory Board of the Bank is gathering industrial associations, the Federal Chamber of Commerce, the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture and, of course, the social partners close to you, and let them all agree that this political risk also falls on everyone. After that, you can say: Everyone was involved. It may now be that it is sometimes necessary to complete risky business in the interests of jobs or in the interests of other important public policy objectives. This is a matter of political control, and this is a matter of political control. Today we are making a request to ensure this disclosure to Parliament for the future. We no longer want these notes in the main committee: a conclusion with Iraq, two with China, two with Algeria. That's inexorable. First of all, the past has to be clarified, and for the future we need transparency towards this House!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e8717	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. I ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the request made by Mr Dr. Van der Bellen and Comrades to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-06-020-XX-NRSITZ-00072_d7e8757	I declare that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in applications 447/A to 453/A. Questions 2347/J to 2389/J were also raised. I call upon the next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business regulations and allocations, to take place immediately after the end of this meeting. The sitting is closed.
