ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3438	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 77. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of the 76th. Meeting of 5. In June 1997, the Parliament's Directorate remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies. For today's session as prevented, the Dkfm Members are reported. Holger Bauer, Dr. Preisinger, Dr. Van der Bellen and Wabl. For business treatment, Mrs Dr Schmidt has reported. - Here you go. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3485	Mr President. I would like to speak against this agenda on behalf of my group. Agenda item 2 does not correspond to the correlation in the Presidency. When we drew up the agenda in the Presidency, the Federal Act on the Independent Federal Asylsenate was not the subject, and I would like to be able to rely on it – that was the case so far – that what was made up is also on the agenda. Later, in a circular presidency, it was asked for approval of whether this item should be included on the agenda. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Not even race!]] The Liberals did not agree to this – for this reason our opposition; we would like to give him a more detailed explanation. I am therefore seeking to have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3531	For the purposes of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall leave the decision on this matter to the National Council in the form of a vote. A debate was requested. I put this request to the vote. – The maximum speaking time is 5 minutes; the number of speakers per group is up to three. – Mr Khol, would you like to say something? - No, I don't. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Kier.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3558	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The objections we are raising against the agenda are based on the fact that, especially since we have noted that minority and control rights in this House are being handled quite insensitively, which is clearly reflected in the procedure in which the committee of inquiry requested by the opposition parties, in particular the Committee of Inquiry on the Kurds, are simply well advised and committed to observing the Rules of Procedure and also the use of this House in terms of point and emphasis and respect for their compliance. Agenda item 2, the Federal Act on the Independent Bundesasylsenat, is not on the agenda in accordance with business rules. Although a request was made by the Committee because the Committee's deliberations showed that this matter was to be governed by a separate law and it was on and on its own that such a matter was then placed on the agenda of the next or an appropriate meeting if it was to be discussed in connection with other matters, this was always done by means of agreement in the presidency. Otherwise, it is a subsequent change to the agenda, a supplement to the agenda, and this requires the two-thirds majority of this House. I note that, from the point of view of our group, it is not feasible to have a recent agenda in this form. Our position should also be in line with the view of the Bureau of our House, otherwise we would not have tried to reach agreement in the presidency. I therefore really want to proceed in a proper manner in order to respect the form, respect for the Rules of Procedure and respect for the rights of minority groups. It may seem to you to be small when, at the same time, I mention that in the matter in this matter, we are seeing quite a progress which is at the point of debate, but we believe that not only because we like matter content that should be violated. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3596	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Same time of speech: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3618	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Forum raised objections to the agenda, which is formally opposed to the so-called Dublin agreement being put on the agenda, but materially against the fact that we are putting on the agenda a law on the establishment of a federal asylsenate as a so-called committee proposal – §-27-proposal. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Bundesasylsenat!]] Mrs Schmidt! I read to you § 27 of the Rules of Procedure: "Each committee shall have the right to make self-employed applications for the adoption of laws relating to the subject matter covered by the Committee and to submit a report on this subject in accordance with § 42." We have discussed the asylum law in committee – we do not have to answer that you were not represented in this committee. We have found in the discussions of the Asylum Act that this special, high-quality legal protection can be quickly implemented only if an asylum Senate law is adopted. That is why the Committee... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Mr Barmüller! If that were your concern, you would have come to committee. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Since we have found that this law is necessary in order to ensure the rapid implementation of the high-quality legal protection, the Committee has made use of its right to submit a legislative proposal in accordance with § 27. We therefore believe that we do not accede to the objections to the agenda, which is formally opposed to another point, namely the Dublin agreement, but also in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3665	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Same law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3687	Mr President. High house! We have already complained a week ago that Parliament is denied the second important task in addition to the legislation, namely the control - Mr Kier has already pointed out -. It will not be possible for Parliament to have control tasks. At the time, I have pointed out that Parliament has been a legislative machine for years, precisely since the existence of this great coalition. Mr Khol! You are mistaken if you keep Mrs Schmidt in mind that § 27 regulates the following: A single request will be submitted to the Committee, and this self-employed request, which is a right of the National Council, will then be sent to the House. – I will show you what this self-employed proposal looks like. This self-employed application looks so like a 5th anniversary. In June 1997, at 7 p.m., a final elaborate from the Ministry will be sent to the Committee, only the names of the Members will be used, and all this is because one has not been able to introduce a draft law in the form of a government proposal in a timely manner, as it would belong to it. [[the speaker shows him]] And that is what you call the Committee's right to decide on an independent request. – This is legislative machinery and nothing else, Mr Khol! [[Congratulations on the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] This is legislative machinery and Parliament's abuse and nothing else, and this can be easily understood on the basis of the fax expression. I can show you this on every side of the law! – A Parliament cannot be allowed to do so, and that is why we will join the Liberal Forum’s objection. For years now, you have been dealing with Parliament in the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, as if it were just the extended arm of the government and would have to decide on the government's call to fax it at 7 a.m., ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a legislative machinery that we reject. They are degrading this Parliament into a farce, a legislative machine, where Parliament is presented with paper at the last moment in order to decide on it for the population; the population is covered by new standards, and that is also the case with this law. They are degrading this Parliament to a toothless Parliament, which no longer has the opportunity to carry out the control tasks which it has to carry out, as we have shown by the large coalition, in the example of preventing the committee of inquiry. That is why my group, ladies and gentlemen, will join the Liberal Forum's objection. Mrs Schmidt! One has not even chosen the way – at least this request of the circular presidents has not found the way to the liberal parliamentary club – to complement the agenda in the form of a circular-presidium to this point. They just put him on it, as Mr. Khol has now said: This is a Parliament's right, that's what we're putting on it. . The fact that this is in reality a process that has taken place in the government has probably kept Mr Khol silent. Not only does one not keep the form, but one breaks the use of this house.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3756	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3777	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I really do not take your great crocodile tears off in this regard. What we are discussing here is the result of the fact that you felt it necessary to boycott the Committee's work for ten days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This refusal of democracy, which you have conducted in these 14 days, has actually brought the Committee's work into a very difficult situation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Very weak!]] However, we have done a committee work in all these areas, which can be seen. In addition, we have treated you in the same way as we have done in other contexts: We sent you the information in advance. You yourself, ladies and gentlemen, of the two small opposition groups, know that in the final stage of the preparation of large legislative bodies there is cooperation between government, experts from the ministries, representatives of our clubs and delegates. And if, on a day for which you are promised an appropriate legal paper, you receive it by fax at 10 p.m., that is, I think, a remarkable service, because the next day you have time to study it from the beginning of the morning to the beginning of the committee – in this case 1 p.m. – the next day. They are really just about continuing this boycott with other means. I can also prove this, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, when we, together with four political groups in this House, made and completed the reference pyramid, there was also the case that we had only been relatively late with a paper and then sent it to the opposition group, which did not go along with it, to the liberals. This has been accepted in this context, and no one was excited at that time. Today you're excited. That's not consistent. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That was before the investigation committees!]] I confess: You might have gotten the documents a few hours earlier, but it wasn't a really undemocratic procedure. I therefore ask you to leave the church where it belongs, in the village.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3834	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3856	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I fully endorse the comments of the Liberal Forum. To your argument: I can only say that in committees, there are many things that can be added, since it has to be done quickly! Please tell someone else! The integration package has been announced to us since 1993. Since 1993, it has been known that there are double-tracks in the administration that the legal protection of refugees is unsatisfactory. Since 1993, members of the government – there have always been others – promise that something will happen in this area, and then you want to agree that suddenly there is a need for an act that could not even be agreed in the presidential due to the time pressure. Ladies and gentlemen! This is highly unbelievable. [[Abg. Marizzi: Have you gone into the committees!]] It is still to be said that these events are not alone; There are events such as the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, where the chairman is informed that the Minister can only come at 10 a.m., although the Committee meeting began at 8.30 a.m. In the social field, completely different requests from the opposition parties against their will and against their consent are gathered. This is exactly the style that has led, among other things, to the fact that, because of the refusal of the control rights of this House, protest measures have been taken, which are of course continued. Ladies and gentlemen! The argument of the president of the club Khol is also characterised by a truly special logic of government. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Just wrong! Untrue!]] Dr. Khol! If you argue in a material way and say: We are now doing something in the direction of Greens and Liberals, because we are doing something good for the refugees, so you can't have anything against the fact that it's up to you, but don't keep the liberals going!, I ask you what kind of legal understanding exists here in this House. If, for whatever reason, you share templates that were originally included in a draft, then that is something which, according to the prevailing formal understanding of the law, belongs precisely to debate, where we want to have a referral in the presidential, going to why this happens and why it is so urgent at once. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In committee!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: was discussed in the Committee!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why haven't you been to the committee?]] To say: What stands in it could actually be right for you! is an argument that does not concern you. This argument is absolutely inadmissible in this form! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Leikam: It's been discussed for a long time, and you weren't there!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One last thing about the Committee's presence: The measures of the three opposition parties have not been put out of jux and tollery, but because you have publicly declared: In principle, we are no longer using committees of inquiry! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Leikam: The untruth!]] They have ignored and broken the use of Parliament that the government parties have also agreed to investigations in important matters since three legislative periods. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Who said that?]] And this was an urgent emergency action, and the behaviour here in terms of integration package, in terms of social legislation, in the matter of Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions is an urgently necessary continuation of the protest to which one will not get around. Ladies and gentlemen! If you, the government's club members, explain from the speaker's desk: We continue to do this, what do we need you to do?!, then it really characterises the style that has led to all these occurrences. Ladies and gentlemen! Do not make the public aware that the presence of the opposition in any of these debates could have changed only one fucerl once the government had decided on something. You have been doing this for some time, and you also have the consequences if the style in this house is not the very best!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4010	Mrs Dr Schmidt is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4032	Mr President. High house! Mr Kostelka! You're right: There is, in fact, a link between our objection debate and the setting up of investigation committees, particularly in the case of Kurden murders. If one sees the way in which the representatives of the government groups are dealt with the control rights of this Parliament, it is logical to rethink the interpretation of the rules of the game, even if they have been dealt with by common accord in a certain way. I believe, from the point of view of the opposition, that we can no longer afford to make decisions for which a qualified majority is necessary – in concrete terms: the addition of an agenda by a two-thirds majority, that is, a practice that has worked so far – to operate practically in decisions that are only secured by a simple majority. That's the point. Mr Khol! It is not at all disputed that the Committee has such a possibility. It will be discussed at the appropriate item on the agenda on how we assess this politically. It's a chapter for itself. But, according to the Rules of Procedure, there is the possibility of the Committee to make such a request. However, it is not in writing in the Rules of Procedure, but only in a de facto way that such a request will automatically come to the next agenda if it is related to the matter to be dealt with. This is exactly what we are talking about. I put it out of the question that it has so far been handled. However, I say that this practice has always been covered by the agreement of the President. Maybe that's why she worked so well. - This time is not the case. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That didn't go in time!]] It is a question of questioning this practice for the future, because we cannot see rights normally exercised by a majority of two thirds of the population being converted into rights, which are suddenly perceived by a simple majority, and that in a parliament in which Members refuse to control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4069	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4091	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I would not have spoken if Mr. Dr. Khol had not tried to convey to us in a hearty way that the law on the independent federal asylsenate, which is now also a matter of good, could lead us to the question of how people who want in principle to reject something good. Dr. Khol! Since 1993, when the current legislation on residence and foreigners has entered into force, a discussion has been held in the political public and in Parliament on the amendment of the laws on foreigners. The government template has been in the house for months now. At the last meeting of the Committee on the Interior, however, a separate law has been introduced – in parentheses: under the absence of the opposition caused by the Committee boycott. Dr. Khol! It is therefore not a question of whether or not the content of the matter is judged by us. I can assure you that we are not against this law and will agree to it today as the only one of the so-called integration packages. It's the procedure I think is immense! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] On the basis of the claim made to us with good conscience that this cannot disturb us because we agree, all the parliamentary practices currently in force are broken. Now I'm wondering, What happens in the event that there is no such agreement? It cannot be said that the opposition is in agreement with the Dublin agreement. I consider the argument I have chosen to be absolutely unfair. You can't tell me that an information about something that has been discussed publicly for three years would not have been done before. If Mr. Dr. Kostelka believes that it is sufficient for the opposition to receive the information by fax at 10 p.m. in the evening so that it can adapt to it by 1 p.m. – so that I do not only mean taking note of the information but also carrying out a content assessment – I wonder how powerful the Social Democratic Group is, how much staff and how much staff it has available. However, having an entire ministry in the back is contrary to a group that does not have these possibilities. I think it is particularly annoyed that you do not try to give us information on matters of major importance, and that you are presenting something as a coalition-packed thing. That is why the Liberals' objection debate is justified, and we will, of course, give our consent to the objections.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4137	No further words are available. That concludes the objection debate. I would like to say, Mr Dr Kier, that the simple majority is sufficient in the course of the vote on an objection debate. You know the procedure when fixing the agenda according to § 50 of the Rules of Procedure: Either the agenda is announced at the end of a meeting and, if no objections are decided, it is deemed approved, or if this is not the case – this is our parliamentary practice – the draft agenda is issued in writing, and it is considered to be fixed and approved if objections in the National Council are not decided by a majority. The agenda is fixed after this vote. If, before entering the agenda, an amendment was tabled – this has been avantified – then a two-thirds majority would be needed. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask you to take the seats. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who agree with Mr Kier's request not to include item 2 – in the sense of the objections he has raised – in today's agenda in order to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This means that the agenda is issued within the meaning of § 50 para. 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4179	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: "Should the law enforcement authorities in their current state (free exit of the Kurds, investigation teams at the letter bomb attacks) be made available to grid arrest and noise attack?"
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4201	First of all, Mr Anschober, has spoken. His speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4222	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Parts of justice and police are once again at the centre of public criticism, public debate and debate during these days and weeks. Given that, in order to define it, panseries which have resulted in the field of letter bomb investigations in the area of police and justice, and in view of what has contributed to unexplained, scandalous interrelations and occurrences in the field of state-organized escape aid for the Kurds of Vienna, I must say: rightly. This discussion is absolutely right if you look at the following events: A pans series is disrupting the letter bomb investigations; massive disputes are taking place – especially behind the scenes, but also publicly – between justice and police in the last two weeks and lead to massive debt allocations between these two areas; confidential files, personal information, personal data, investigation details and files about citizens are constantly coming to the public; in addition, we have already discussed this several times in the last eight weeks – terrorists and murderers in this country were attacked with glacé gloves, and a state-organized escape aid. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If the consequences of these problems and the state of justice and police are to be met, then this is justified. The consequences would be implemented at any time in the direction of efficiency and greater security, for example with an immediate police reform in the field of training, an organisational reform of police units and the state police, a ban on money laundering by speedy lifting of anonymity, a development towards civil police and away from party policy, which is currently causing many of these problems. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Why are these logical measures not being taken to increase efficiency and increase security? There is a lobby on the other hand, from the banking sector on the one hand, as regards anonymity, and on the other hand, from the trade union police sector on the other hand, on the reform measures in the field of executives. But what is the government doing? Because it remains unsuccessful in the reforms, it risks, instead, a completely arbitrary reduction in fundamental rights. Noise attack and grid arrest do not bring more security, but more risk to the individual unspoiled citizen. The terrorist and mafia-boss, which is supposed to be, will be able to find appropriate countermeasures very quickly. This is also illustrated by the international examples: The big heads of organized crime understand to protect themselves. The Ministry of the Interior, the entire Federal Government now promises a number of exceptions – which was also discussed in detail yesterday in the SPÖ Parliamentary Club – and at the same time decides to join Europol, the march into Europol and the consent to feed Europol databases. The absurdity of this discussion is that there has been virtually no public information on the specific dimensions and consequences of the consent to Europol databases, although at Europol level the world's largest personal data file will be established in accordance with Article 5, and that, in addition to very clear data such as name, profession, pre-punishment et cetera, personal data will be processed in a highly sensitive and unbearable manner. I quote literally from Article 5: European citizens are to collect "data on their racial origin, political views, religious or other beliefs, health and information on sexual life". More: Not only data from perpetrators, but also data on witnesses, contact and accompanying persons and data on potential victims are to be collected in this context. It is practically any European citizen whose data can be included in these cartels. This is the crucial instrument for the creation of the "glass European" when it is realized in this way! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What did Austria do? Austria has initially notified a reservation against the analysis files provided for in Article 5. But at the end of May, the Implementing Convention was signed by the Minister of the Interior. ==References== In May, Minister of the Interior, Schlögl, said in the main committee that the collection of this highly sensitive personal data is necessary due to the practical police work. – But that is nonsense, highly risky and dangerous nonsense, because this leads to a dramatic degradation of fundamental rights. Every Austrian citizen is right to wonder why the whole effort for noise attack and grid arrest will be driven if, as the Federal Government repeatedly suggests, only a few will come to a small number of cases per year, and what this billion will be needed to reduce fundamental rights. The reason for this is clear in further perspective: It is about the necessary arrangements and the pavement of the way towards Europol, towards those analysis files that will lead to the "glass European". Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In March of this year, the European Parliament adopted by a large majority a very interesting decision on the reliability of the handling of this personal data in existing European data systems, such as the SIS file. In this resolution of the European Parliament, a literal statement is made: Numerous arrests were made due to incorrect SIS files. So innocent ones have come to the manual kiss due to bad files. Under these circumstances, you want to worship my dear Ladies and gentlemen, the way for personal data on racial origin, political views, religious or other beliefs, health information and information on sexual life to be stored in the European Central Computer in The Hague is to be stored, even by contact and companion persons as well as by potential victims? We think this is unbearable! We also consider it intolerable that there has so far been no serious discussion in Austria and no serious information to the public. We are investigating, ladies and gentlemen, that security policy in this country is obviously on a completely wrong path. In all the major political criminal cases of recent years – from "Lucona" to "Noricum" to the Kurds murders and letter bombs – there are either panseries on panseries, or the authorities close their eyes and put on Glacé gloves. Terrorists are led by escort service to the airport, and in connection with the letter bombs, we are waiting for weeks for necessary consents. – On the other hand, every small shoplifter will immediately take interrogation measures and take consent. Instead of implementing the necessary reform measures for greater security and more civil rights – I have outlined them: Reform measures in the field of police training, reform measures in the field of state police, reform measures in the field of anonymity – the government is relying on the reduction of fundamental rights by means of noise attack, Rasterfachung and Europol database, which no longer threatens to bring security but significantly more uncertainty to Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4291	The Minister for Justice has notified his opinion on the subject. The speaking time should also not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4313	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, the Federal Ministry of Justice has never been a pioneer or banner player of investigation methods such as noise attack and grid arrest. From the outset, I pointed out the serious nature of the fundamental rights measures involved and therefore advocated restrictive solutions, adequate legal control and a particularly thorough preparation of legislation. On the other hand, we cannot ignore the fact that new, cross-border and organised forms of crime in Europe have led to the fact that, in most neighbouring countries and in other comparable countries, police investigation methods of this kind are already being applied or that their introduction is being discussed in concrete terms. It is therefore understandable that the Austrian safety authorities also demand a comparable investigation tool. We have tried in the preparation of the law to balance the improvement of the criminal police investigation tools and at the same time to limit the associated interference in privacy and the personal rights of the individual. Ladies and gentlemen! This current hour does not provide enough time to address the details of the arrangements under discussion, so that I can make only a few comments. In the recent public debate on the topic of automation-supported data alignment, which has sometimes been strongly conducted in recent days, it appears from the perspective that the question of the inclusion of private data collections from the outset was the subject of a discussion in the ministerial draft, the public survey of the internal and judicial sector and the discussions in the Data Protection Council. The government template has restricted itself to public data collections, especially since at that time no generally satisfactory definition of the private data that could be considered for an automation-aided settlement. The Federal Ministry of the Interior has now presented a proposal on this subject, which appears to be an appropriate basis for further discussions and for the decision of the House. As far as the data to be transmitted to Europol by you, Mr Deputies, is concerned, I can say, without prejudging the minister responsible for this, that we assume that Austrian data must not be transmitted to Europol for a purpose for which they should not also be used internally. As a result, Europol is to ensure police efficiency at European level, but only under Austrian law as regards Austrian data. Surely, this problem will be dealt with in detail in the Europol Ratification debate that we are still discussing. The recent discussions on the use of the new methods of investigation between and with the government parties have led, in my opinion, to remarkable new proposals for further differentiated and improved individual schemes and for enhanced legal protection. Already the government template – as you know from the expert hearing held in the High House in October 1996 – has also found attention and a positive assessment abroad. I therefore have no question that this judgment can still be applied to the revised regulatory proposals which I will apply in the next few days to the judges of all five groups of the House – in good time before the 19th. It will be transmitted to the Ministry of Justice in June 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Justice must not be made aware of the particular legal sensitivity of matter. We were aware of the high, also psychological and symbolic significance of the legislative issues raised to the decision from the very beginning. At the same time, however, I am firmly convinced that even on delicate and difficult issues such as these, it is possible to have an objective discussion and a balanced solution. Especially those two criminal proceedings, which you have illustrated in your request to carry out this current hour, can be argued as an argument to give the law enforcement authorities adequate means and instruments. They do not give rise to any reason to accept or fear that the judicial authorities would have gone beyond the legal framework and the legal requirements. There is no reason, therefore, to imply to these authorities that they would in the future exceed or even abuse their powers. The procedures you have referred to are quite clear evidence that the judicial authorities do not, as has often been claimed in the discussion on Rasterfachung and Lauschanfrage, dare to accept the wishes of the security authorities unverified, but rather to examine both prosecutors and courts very independently and independently and to judge them independently. If, in individual cases, different viewpoints arise because of the different responsibilities, this does not break down in principle good cooperation between domestic and judicial bodies at all levels. In view of the recognizable intermediate sounds, let me add a few things to the wording of the theme of today's current hour: Like all public institutions in democracy, justice is, of course, subject to public control and, if necessary, criticism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In their self-representation to the outside, some of their representatives may occasionally lack professionalism. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're right!]] But together we should try not to judge the work of important institutions of this republic according to the advances of media optics, which are anything but misunderstandings, overwritings and distortions. Nor will we be able to proceed to conduct investigations and criminal proceedings in full public light at every stage and to decide on the question of sufficient grounds of suspicion, the next investigation, or even guilt or innocence in television discussions. Rather, there are limits in this respect, in which the crossing of which not only affects the personal protection of the individual damage, but also the proper and lawful functioning of the authorities can be affected. Finally, the essential trust of the population in stabilising pillars of our community and in the rule of law could be threatened as such. In this regard, we all have great responsibility, and I therefore allow myself to decide on my speech to appeal to all those who speak on the public stage in this country and participate in public opinion-building, always to be aware of this pressing responsibility. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4358	Thank you, Minister of State. In the further debate, speaking times amount to 5 minutes each. Mrs Stoisits has come to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4388	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! In an article in a newspaper, a lawyer has already overtitled a comment he wrote on the subject of noise attack and grid arrest, with "control is good, mistrust is better". Nothing, I think, expresses the whole discussion about these so-called special investigation methods better than this title "Control is good, mistrust is better". Unfortunately, I must say: Due to the experience gained in Austria in connection with the telephone hearing, this mistrust is very legitimate. In principle, I believe that it is our commitment and yours as Head of Division – in all of your scepticism, which you have shown in recent years, but which does not benefit, as we are now seeing or are already seeing, – to take seriously and reduce this mistrust in the Austrian population vis-à-vis special investigations by law enforcement authorities, especially against the police and the possibilities there are in this context. Mr. Federal Minister! Like the government, in this case not you personally, but your colleague-in-chief Schlögl, is exactly the opposite of what I refer to as responsiblely dealing with such serious fundamental rights as what is planned in connection with noise attack and grid arrest. I repeat what my colleague Mr. Anschober said: Europol is the world's largest database. As part of Europol, Austria is obliged to collect, pool and pass on international data from its citizens, the Austrians, who are of just racial origin, religious confession, information on sexual life! There you can tell us, even if you are trying to convince us that there is a responsible handling – no arguments that would depress this, because at the end of May, Minister Schlögl – that is not long ago – has already signed the implementing provision on Europol's analytical files and has not noted any reservations from Austria. So how do you want to eliminate distrust in the population, legitimate criticism of a movement in Austria, which expresses its doubts about these measures? These are not only liberal and green Members, but also the President of the Bar Association, the President of the Chamber of Physicians, who oppose the inclusion of private databases in the planned measures relating to the search for grids. This is not someone, it is not a small parliamentarian, but interest organizations that support the citizens in their distrust and want to distrust them. These represent the interests of citizens, such as lawyers in Austria. That makes me skeptical. Federal Minister! I'll tell you: A country that is the world champion in listening – that is, when you look at how often telephone surveillance is arranged in Austria; that is really negative, that is unfortunate for me – should treat measures such as noise attack and grid search much more intensive, much more serious and also, as far as parliamentary treatment is concerned, much more precisely and much more in the core. In the Federal Republic of Germany, since many years, when I was still a jus student, discussions have been held about the so-called big noise attack. With the name of the Liberal Burkhard Hirsch, today Vice-President of the Bundestag, the discussion about the big noise attack was linked to me as a student at the time. A minister of justice has voluntarily cleared her post because she was unable to put up with her ideas and views. Federal Minister! Not that you now believe that I would demand similar things from you, but a powerful word from an independent non-party minister could eliminate the distrust that exists in the population. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This could give people renewed confidence that the police are working efficiently, that they are well equipped to reform the state police, that they are fighting money laundering.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4439	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4455	That's what the Austrians want, but they don't want to be lulled, stifled and spitted out.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4485	I call Mr Fuhrmann. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4506	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It was already interesting to listen to colleagues at the time when he philosophyd in his introduction about the security need of the Austrian population. I have taken note of this with some interest because the sounds I have not heard from Mr Anschober in this House so far. Interestingly, however, he has started not only with pears – according to my view – but also in order to leave it in the fruit sector to mix strawberries with nuts. Mr. Anschober! When we discuss the security aspects of this country, and here we are dealing with internal security issues, always just as you fixed on old stories like "Lucona", "Noricum", Kurden-Morden-Morden, and only one current, namely the letter bomb tragedy and drama, involved in the discussion, just look at them from this point of view, then I think, colleague and colleague Stoisits, you are taking a stand for yourself. Let me therefore return to what we are planning in the coalition in agreement with the Minister of Justice and the ladies and gentlemen of this department on the introduction of modern investigation measures to combat organised crime. In this discussion, don't be so unfair that you always get out of things like ticks and spats and put evil thoughts under it. [[Calls of the Abg. Sustainer and Magistrate. Stoisits.]] – Listen to me, I didn’t yell at you either, I only have 5 minutes of speech! I am very willing to engage with all the critics, with all those who are concerned that we should be careful to engage in a genuine and intense dialogue. In the past few weeks and months, we have kept it that way internally in the club. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens – I suppose the Liberal Forum will argue in the same direction – you cannot say to all those who call from a professional point of view: Finally, give us the means to combat organised crime at the same level as it corresponds to the great crime in this world! Do not allow Austria to remain an enclave in this Europe, in this world, where criminals can act and act undisturbedly, without our security executives being able to meet them at the same technical level of the second millennium that we have begun! Do you have the fairness and intellectual honesty to discuss this aspect from the perspective of the potential victims of organized crime? [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I ask you: What is meant by the argument that, as you write in your explanatory statement, you want to justify the current bad state of the Austrian law enforcement authorities with the Kurd murder story from 1989? Ladies and gentlemen! We got 1997! We coalition politicians intend to discuss this security issue for the people of this country with regard to the years after 2000 and to consider it, but not with regard to the past. We do not let you assume that this would happen out of a negative and perverse attitude. On the contrary: We are concerned about the people of this country so that they will not get into the traps of the crack of organized crime in the next few years and decades.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4559	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4580	Minister! Mr President. High house! About a year ago, the opposition strongly accused us that we wanted to speedily and without discussion the new methods of investigation. Now we have been discussing intensively with an international team of experts for a year. We have really dealt with the concerns, the arguments, the conflict between intervention in privacy and the fight against crime. Now, I think, it is time we finally gave the security authorities these new methods of investigation and decided on this law here in the House before the summer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A comprehensive discussion of the government template has shown that it is still to be improved in a number of points. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: What discussion?]] That is to say, Mr Barmüller, in the expert hearing, in the subcommittee, in the media, in the media discussion and, above all, in the coalition, there is the opinion that there are still some wishes in the Committee. I assume that some political groups – not all – will agree to the amendments. [[Further call of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] The principle of proportionality is directly enshrined in the law. That is to say, the desired success must be in a reasonable relationship with the intervention into the rights of the unparticipant to whom it is expected to come. And this proportionality must also be justified by the judges in the decision. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: It is also possible without judicial arrangement!]] We have already achieved a very large step in the fight against organised crime by means of the Criminal Change Act. Mr Barmüller! We have, as you know, redefined organised crime, and the planned instruments are to be created for this very spectrum, i.e. for those mafia structures, which are, by definition, based on long-term business-like links, a larger number of people who are committed to the recurring and planned action of serious criminal acts, which thereby aim to enrich or influence politics and the economy, who are trying to corrupt or intimidate others or to protect themselves in a special way against law enforcement measures. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: But this is not the subject of your secret negotiation paper!]] This serves to combat organised crime, but not the intrusion of Mr and Mrs Österreicher! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fears that this instrument will be widely used have led us to try to combat by restricting the use of time to 30 days, without any extension. Any further use of the new methods of investigation must be subject to a completely new procedure with all the strict chewings we have planned. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: This is fog throw!]] We also want to take several steps to prevent the storage of recordings. That means: Recordings which do not have any significance for the procedure in question shall be destroyed and not transferred by the executing authority during the monitoring period. Where there is no significance for the procedure for the inclusions already transferred, they shall be annihilated prior to the transfer to the Court of First Instance. If the court acknowledges that the results of the monitoring are irrelevant, they are not to be taken into action but to destroy. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But before handing over to the "Kronen Zeitung"!]] In addition, the prosecutor and the accused have the opportunity to demand the destruction of such images or written records. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: "Kronen Zeitung"!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: "Kronen Zeitung"!]] Mr. Hazelsteiner! In the case of illegal publications, we have provided for special sanctions. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I would like to say a word about the intermediate notes on the current state of law enforcement and the reports in the media.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4713	Please put to the conclusion, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4728	For us, independence of justice is the most important principle. We also defend this independence against the media and populist aspects that are currently threatening to overcome. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: And what about human rights?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4773	The next speaker is Mr Stadler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4794	Mr President. High house! The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has already made it clear that it is in itself in favour of modern methods of investigation. Police and justice cannot fight modern forms of organized crime with stone-time methods! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's quite clear! I also believe that the people of Austria understand this. But we demand these instruments without at the same time falling into a "hurra euphoria". Because, in the end, the fundamental rights of the citizen are a matter of caution and caution. Federal Minister! It is not the case that there have only been individual cases in the most spectacular cases of crime in recent years. We do not want to talk about that well-known television broadcast, nor about the problem that the justice of the population cannot explain that, although in mid-May, one of the reasons for the suspicion of the conflict with the letter bombs – otherwise it could not have taken place at all – was the search of the house, but it lasted until the first days and weeks of June until the master concerned was spoken to. This cannot be made clear to anyone in the population, especially since earlier, when the investigations went into another direction, that is to say, politically desired, one has believed that one could meet with it, such interrogations have been taken immediately. In any case, you cannot explain this to us, Mr. Federal Minister. As I am already in bomb terror – Mr Anschober, it is not only about the letter bomb terrorism, but also about the more spectacular bomb terror that has led to the deaths – I must tell you, Mr Federal Minister – you are the wrong contact person, but the only government member present – that you cannot explain to us how it was possible for the investigation carried out by the taxpayer for three years by news-differences and a left-wing extremity, which, in connection with the agreement of the engineer, will still require an explanation, to be targeted in a wrong direction, just because it has been done so politically by the then Minister of the Interior. It was nice to believe that one could find a perpetrator somewhere in the area of the FPÖ, he only had to be a subscriber to a liberal monthly magazine. Federal Minister! You will not be able to explain this to us, this is political abuse! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is therefore appropriate to use scepticism if additional methods of search are to be put in place for this ministry without at the same time providing for appropriate controls. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! I would ask you to remember for yourself what drama the noise attack had for the High House. We had, as you know, a big debate in the house about a year ago – or no, it's been a year and a half ago – because of which the post staff went through the offices with search equipment. It was thought that the couloirs had been "wances" and that discussions would be cut into obscene cars in front of Parliament. The President had to deal with this until it turned out, Mr Marizzi, that you were wired. That's it! They had been wired by a high-ranking staff official and his staff! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Your colleague Kraft paid the token for it. He was put before the court and had to give up his mandate. The case was done with it. Is it wrong, Mr Kukacka? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's right!]] That's right! Therefore, skepticism is appropriate. And it is also appropriate to consider things very carefully, even though it is reasonable to bring about judicial action. For we know – and the Marizzi case – that we can understand this even until here in Parliament – the noise attack takes place! Obscene detectors make a noise attack, the police and also the post do it – everything beyond the legal order. Legalisation and control are therefore necessary in this area. Federal Minister! However, there must be a control which is not exercised by the government, but is independent of government, and which ensures that there is no violation of fundamental rights, no abuse of the possibilities for the burden of civil rights and, above all, no political abuse, as it has been on the agenda in the Bombencausa in recent years. [[Complaints with the liberals]] That's our concern! If this concern can be implemented with the coalition, then, Mrs Fekter, we will be able to enter into a very reasonable dialogue.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4858	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Schmidt. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4879	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to begin by saying a sentence that is a matter of concern to me after I have heard what an old-fashioned captain, an old-class citizen – I say it, as I mean – has to give of himself in the last "press hour". He has said that the parliamentarians of this House, who vote against the noise attack or the grid arrest, are also responsible for the next bomb victim! I think that this is the lowest point of the worst populism and I would like to reject it in every form. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum, the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] However, I would like, among other things, to address the accusations made by Mr Fuhrmann – he is no longer here – to the opposition, in this case to Mr Anschober, especially his question, why he argues with examples from the past, from the vicinity of the Kurdish murders. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Not just!]] Mr Fuhrmann! I am telling you why I think it is acceptable to argue with these examples, because both you and, I believe, the other speakers of the government parties and the FPÖ are talking about how necessary it is to create appropriate control instruments at the same time as the introduction of the new investigation methods. That's what it's all about! If you see how this House deals with control rights, if you see how the existing control instruments worked at that time, because they were not used, because they were political and other interests, then you cannot rely on them – and this is my appeal to the representatives of the Socialist Group in which, as I know, there are concerns – if anyone says that we are already equipped with safe control instruments, so that nothing happens! You can't be serious! [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: We will decide!]] But the decision is of no use to you if no man actually does. We already had this in the past, and we have it in the present. How often does one of the Members of a particular group leave here and tell you something about closing acts? They have arranged for it to be a closing act whose contents must not be made available to anyone, but it will be made public from this speaker's point of view. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Then it will be clear who broke this confidentiality!]] How often do you read content in the newspapers from financial and other files, all of which are subject to the silence of office? They say we're not going to read it. That's a mistake, you can't really mean that! Your claim that these are all examples of the past, I think incredible in connection with the suicide of Gerhard Praschak. There was a personal letter to the widow of whose existence she, as you now all know, had to read in the "Kronen Zeitung". In addition, it is obvious that not all the alarm bells in the interior area and in all the other relevant areas have been ringed immediately. Only now that one has read it in the "profile", there are investigations on how this could happen. If you consider all of this when you see how to deal with bans – the abuse of power is prohibited, and it is still happening – you cannot, I think, talk about the need to maintain proportionality when using the instruments. They have the responsibility to ensure that proportionality is safeguarded by the decision of the funds to be created. But this proportionality is certainly not given with the introduction of these instruments! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister for Justice – wherever he may be now! You say it is very balanced in your opinion. If you call it balanced that videorization, i.e., both the noise, because it is done with sound, as well as the sehan grip, can be done without judicial command, in any offence, when it lasts no longer than 24 hours, then I am already swirling at the thought of how you will deal with the control instruments. There would not even be a judicial order sufficient. For me, in view of the behaviour of President of the Court of Justice of Voratsch on the question of the witness P., that is, the self-righteousness of the court of justice and the abrasion of the hearing has been described as an act of independent jurisdiction, while you have not made use of law enforcement measures, so that it has come to the point that the hearing has been identified at once and at the risk of escape and evasion, not even a judicial order sufficient. But does all of this give them sufficient assurance that such interference in fundamental rights takes place properly? - You can't be serious! I therefore appeal to you: The proportionality of the use of the instruments lies in your responsibility! Push Don't take this responsibility to resorts we know how to deal with them!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4958	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4980	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you spoke of the necessary trust in the pillars of the rule of law. I also believe that this confidence is necessary. I'm just asking you: Can it still be? In the Mykonos judgment, it is said in a passage: The independence of the judiciary is then on the test if terror comes not from any isolated groups, but from states or close-to-state bodies, from powerful states that have to award economic orders and exert the pressure on states and on their justice. [[Abg. Marizzi: My friend Bani-Sadr!]] Then the independent judicial system is on the test! Federal Minister! I'm looking for you: Let us check together whether the independence of the judicial system remains the subject of such an examination. I do not think that it is an evil will and similar, but that in many cases the information situation, including the authorities, is bad and there is a reflex to save ourselves difficulties, the winding up of Zores. The latter, however, is given if you face a powerful state like Iran. Federal Minister! Today, they have said that individual representatives – meant "Woratsch" – lack professionalism. I ask you: What conclusions do you draw from it with regard to confidence in the pillars of the rule of law, even if it seems that unprofessionality, uninformedness or perhaps kneeling have been held in front of too much pressure? The murders of Kurdish oppositionists in 1989 were not an isolated file. [[Abg. Marizzi: The Bani Sadr, who killed him?]] Mr. Fuhrmann! Mrs Fekter! This was not a unique error, which is admitted in the current report. This network of foreign terror has apparently continued to spread and has already been much more frequent. In 1987, Hamid Reza Citger, also a Kurdish oppositionist, was liquidated with a neck shot. His confidants immediately thereafter went to the competent authorities, to the heads of the government and stated that a murder had happened and asked for information. I ask you, Minister of State: What happened? – months later the body was found. However, there were no investigations! Nothing happened! Next came the 1989 incidents. Her place, the judicial resort, has been shown to have – I have seen the entrance stamp – as well as the Federal Chancellery, a detailed presentation of the network of terror with addresses, names, addresses of forwarding companies, residential buildings and Islamic centers, which, so the oppositions, serve as the forge of terror. What happened in a residential house in Vienna 4, what happened in the Islamic Center in Vienna 6? What happened to all these companies that have serious suspicions that they are helpers of this network of terror? The series continues, Minister of State! In 1990 there was a terrorist attack in Switzerland, the perpetrators fled to Austria, and there, according to the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung", their trail is lost. In 1991, in the shadow of the Gulf War, Iraqi opposition, recognized refugees, members of the Volksmushahedin, are arrested. They are accused of being oppositionists! The only reason for the U-port was a confidential notice of a person never mentioned! Maybe the message? The court was very quick, and it was a matter of opposition. They were treated like criminals, although all these accusations, such as criminal plots, could not be hardened with a line or an index. There was only a confidential indication of an anonymous body. Federal Minister! Where is there confidence in this perhaps most important pillar of the rule of law? There are several reasons to be opposed to the noise attack, either in principle to the rule of law or to the aforementioned reasons. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] As long as this has not been clarified, I think that even the "Salzburger Nachrichten" is right – and they are really not a Revolverblatt – when they suspect in a cartoon that the government needs the noise attack and the grid search...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5027	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5043	... to be better informed when the next foreign terrorists need an escort to the airport.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5073	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5094	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Group is focusing on a subject that can of course be very emotionally discussed at this current hour. In fact, this issue has recently been discussed more on the basis of feelings and assumptions, with the greens, in particular, missing a lot of materiality. The suspicion in me is that the security spokesperson of the Greens, who is already in the Upper Austrian election campaign, is absolutely in need of an additional self-representation stage here. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the issue of the use of modern methods of control against organised crime and terrorism is far too important to me to highlight it only under emotions. In recent times, the introduction of electronic data balance has been branded as a horror scenario and only more of the "glass citizen". After it was apparently recognized that many arguments against the balance of data were emptiness, because most fears of the draft law were not at all possible – but I will come later – to look for a new enemy image. It was found in the Europol Convention and its database. Then things will be said, and you've just experienced this, which are hair-throwingly wrong. It was always clear – even now that the Austrian inspection reserve has been withdrawn – that the Austrian security authorities to Europol – this is very important, ladies and gentlemen! – will always pass on only those data which they may also identify under Austrian law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] Therefore, the green and liberal warnings about the sale of Austrian data protection and fundamental rights are a complete nonsensus! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The Data Protection Council does not know!]] The Austrian data protection standards remain in force, and the Europol Convention speaks a clear language. I know you don't want to hear that when you say false things here! [[Abg. That's nonsense, that's what you're saying!]] National law is important in the context of data transmission to the Eurodoc – that is Europol’s personal data file. Therefore, Austria will not feed data whose investigation would not have been allowed. The identification of additional data for the Europol file cannot at all be mentioned. It always bothers me especially if false things are claimed here in the public. Data derived from a comparison of data arranged by the judicial authorities only serve a certain criminal procedure and after its completion must be deleted; you know that too. They shall not be transmitted to Europol alone. At all events, the result of the approximation of data must only be considered as an approach to further investigations, because the result of the approximation of data is not evidence but the basis for further reviews. I also wonder how the Greens imagine a Europe-wide fight against terrorism when they question the common database. The Kurdish problem in particular shows very clearly how dangerous international terrorism is. On the one hand, it calls for a tough approach to terrorism and, on the other, for the networking of the investigative authorities in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] We cannot accept this, ladies and gentlemen, of the Green and Liberal Group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] But you have also lost sight of the investigations on the tragic bombing of recent years. [[Calls to the Greens.]] On the one hand, you criticize the investigating security authorities that they are in the case of Mr Ing. P. has done too slow and too little research, where it is said that so many suspicions against this Mr. Ing. P. is present, but on the other hand, on every occasion you accuse the authorities of suspecting or lightly arresting people without sufficient evidence and facts. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why are terrorists escorted to the airport? Why are murderers running?]] In contrast to you and to journalists, it is not enough, in the case of bomb terror, for the security authorities and the investigating officials, to simply make allegations or to consider mere indications as evidence. [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] It is also doubly to attack the authorities because of inefficient or inefficient evidence, but not to admit to them additional important modern search methods. In conclusion, I would like to say once again: The mixing of topics, data balance and Europol file is done in a just as negligent way. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Europol is about the search and information and not about the electronic balance of data. The SPÖ is therefore being protected in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5194	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5209	... the people who live in this country are committed to the new methods of combating organised crime, while respecting the highest possible standards of legal protection. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: So far you've run terrorists!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5248	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5269	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If for some time the Greens and the Liberals have shared shoulder to shoulder in the Arena, then caution is recommended, caution, I take personally, especially for the Austrians, for the employees in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Be careful! You cook your own soup!]] I personally have the feeling that you are not concerned about the security of the population, you are not fighting terrorism and organized crime, but you are cooking your own soup, and that is a sad little soup. This has become clear and obvious! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever of your two groups on the 23rd. At the time of the hearing round in the Subcommittee of the Justice Committee on October 1996, he was there – and if you are objective, you could hear it from the statements of all the experts –: Electronic surveillance is the only way to effectively combat terrorism and organised crime. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Like the Kurd murders!]] I understand the emotionality shown here by Mr Fuhrmann, and it was important for me to hear that our Minister of Justice, in an urgent, clear and also very comprehensible way, has cleared up all the problems that we face in the area of greens and liberals, in a form which I must say: It is not only acceptable, but it is also a guide for Austria and within the EU! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] I have listened closely for an hour, but on the part of the Greens and Liberals, I have not heard anything about those problems that really concern them, for example, the organized crime that now includes our society – but not just here but in all the countries of the world – and which is about moral, economic, so economic, and ultimately legal matters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Magnifier]] I thought that once I was an objective report to those of the EU with an analysis of organised crime, I was looking at what is happening in Austria. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues of the two parties I have just apostrophized! I have the feeling you're not reading anything like this, you don't even know what it's all about. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You even let the Kurds go!]] I can only read a few passages from that. For example, about OK suspects and their activities in Austria in 1996: The activities of criminal groups from Albania and former Yugoslavia have increased. Other quote: Slovak, Bulgarian, Czech and Hungarian groups were able to build strong structures in Austria. Further: Criminal groups from the Community Independent states are active in Austria. Criminal Turkish groups are mainly involved in drug trafficking and, in particular, in the import and distribution of heroin through the Balkan route. The activities of Asian groups in our country are obvious. Members of the Camorra are active in three Austrian states. Romanian groups use Vienna as a base. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] – Ladies and gentlemen! You don't want to register that? You're ignoring that? We believe that it is precisely this area that we have to deal with using electronic methods. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It must be noted that everything from these groups in Austria, including under the protection of the Greens and Liberals – and I raise this accusation! ............................................................................................................................................................ [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You escorted Iranian terrorists to the airport! What did you do to the Kurd murders?]] For as long as we do not give justice and executive opportunities against these organisations, there will be the following, as this report at least points out. There are 17 crime groups in the area of OK, and only in Austria are twelve obvious. I read to: Austria: OK crime in the area of drugs, money laundering, fraud, extortion, armed robbery, car theft, trafficking in human beings, other kinds of heeling, illegal trafficking in firearms, prostitution and child pornography. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Kurden-Morden!]] Thus, the EU report on organised crime in Austria reads! Ladies and gentlemen of the Green and Liberal Group! Let us not ignore obvious facts! Let us respect the fact that in Austria there are manifestations of crime that must be fought against! [[Abg. What about the police?]] Let us give the executive, let us give justice those opportunities so that they are able to protect the Austrians from these obvious cases!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5415	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5436	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that Mr Kiss has now quoted a number of things as organized crime spreads in Austria, as he said so beautifully. That's exactly what this coalition has fought with your support for years. That is why we are in the situation of having to make up for this now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If one reads the annual report of the Federal Criminal Office Wiesbaden and it is found that Austria has therefore become a hub of organized crime, because it, coming from different countries, feels particularly secure here in Austria and the chance of attack – according to the Federal Criminal Office of Wiesbaden – is rather reduced, then this is an indication that there is a huge need for repetition. This is also the reason why we have not participated in this sector's harmonization in recent years. You can all get on your nose, because once we've said "Victims": If immigration policy is also controlled and conditions for us not to have too many illegal foreigners in Austria!, we have been labeled as an alien enemy. Today you complain of the criminal organization in the foreign field, starting from the Albanians to the Turkish organizations! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why I'm saying: We liberals are facing the need for improved search and survey methods. We asked for that. However, we also say that, within the framework of a rule of law, it must be ensured that the fundamental rights of citizens are actually respected. Debates of the European Parliament We have experienced it, as in recent years, for example in connection with letter bomb terrorism, an interior minister has mobilized the entire state police and the investigation against a hateful opposition party, namely the FPÖ, and has instrumentalized it because he believed he could pick us up something on the stuff. Today, everyone knows that the story of the letter bomb comes from a completely different corner, which will be very embarrassing to you when you have to talk about the detail. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There was also not much talk of the Liberals and the Greens about legal protection and the rule of law. All of you have participated in the dirty campaign against the liberals, because you have said: Maybe we can fuck them up with the letter bomb story. That's the truth! You do not need to shed crocodile tears here, because you have blamed yourself by condemning and allowing the state police to be used against a misguided opposition party. You owe that to yourself, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We Liberals do not want us to listen again, that we have a tickling being like in Metternich's times, where the citizen does not know what everything... – Mr. Colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] You're the last one to talk. You are a link-connector par excellence and make Mr. To one of today's walls, which is actually responsible for allowing criminals to leave. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: How the Free Action!]] Mr Posch has agreed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5514	Mr Posch! I ask you to take your seat again.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5529	Mr Posch seems to have, in his own group as well as in the House, a total freedom of fools. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He is therefore nervous because he is one of those wheelleaders, also here in the fractional discussion of the SPÖ, which allowed a Mr. Purtscheller, who is most heavily burdened in the context of the history of letter bombs, to move abroad, who is most heavily burdened with the fact that an old gentleman with cover of the Lord One could drop abroad, even though he could be made firm as a perpetrator for a bomb attack. He is responsible for questioning 91 - year - old people because they wanted to pick up one on the stuff and looked away where the source of possible letter bomb terrorism really lies in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I say to you: They all have no reason to claim the rule of law here with a large pathos. [[Abg. May. Posch: (a sheet of paper holding in the direction of the speaker) Help you discover!]] Not my colleague, either. You are not so much trying to control it, Mr President. Otherwise, For example, they do not keep a hearing information on the scandal at the Karawanken motorway, which clearly proves criminal errors between construction firms and construction authorities, but would finally have to show it to the public prosecutor. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Why don't you show it?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5576	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5591	Because the protocol is unpleasant to you and your pre-condemnation of the liberals would no longer fit in! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are your forms of control. We do not want, Mr Anschober, that people like the state politician Kessler, who has wired the Marizzi in order to be able to perform peak services can be instrumentalized.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5616	The speaking time applies equally to all Members, Dr. Haider.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5631	Yeah, I know it's unpleasant for you to make a long closing sentence, but I'll end it anyway. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That a state politician...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5666	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5688	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate was ardent. We've learned a lot from it. We have learned a lot about Mr Fekter's access to the rule of law, about the abilities of Mr Kiss, to twist and subdue here. Both come from the government parties who intend to pass laws that can collect family data that can reveal private life up to the last details with which the "glass man" is created – and that only to the greater honor of more effective police missions. That's usually called police state methods. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you have requested that confidence in the rule of law be restored, I would like to make two simple suggestions: Bring, not only on paper, the silence of office again, remove the anonymity of savings books, and introduce a real banking secret in return! We don't have that either. This will enable you to deal much more efficiently with organised crime than with any illuminating of innocent Austrians. Believe me! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] What is the essential feature of organised crime? – Not the illegal foreigners working in any company is the typical representative of organised crime, but the typical representatives of organised crime, the noble class, are the state terrorists. These are, for example, those who come to Austria to murder misguided opposition politicians in our country. This is organised crime, Mr Kiss. And how you deal with it, we've seen it. Such members of criminal organizations are brought to the airport with police protection. This is organized crime. Not only is the crime based solely on money acquisition organised, also state terrorism is organized crime. Mr Kiss! How the Republic of Austria behaved in the specific case of the Kurdish murders is not a good indication of careful handling of the rule of law. There may have already been the state council in play, but I ask you, Mr Kiss: When will the next time the state council be in play when fundamental rights are abolished? Because this is about fundamental questions. If you do not believe that the concerns we have as liberals are justified, and if you assume from the outset that we are practically in a complicity with organized crime, because we are protecting ourselves from fundamental rights, then, I believe, you will show how important and urgent it is that we should be here. It is not a question of having effective police investigation possibilities, but it is a question of the police not being able to go beyond the limits of the rule of law at all when carrying out their duties. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I ask here quite clearly from this speaker's point of view: What rule of law does the police protect if it has to abolish it in order to protect it? [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, the question is how to protect something, one, and what I protect, the other. If I have to destroy the protective property so that I can protect it, I won't protect it. That would be similar to the one arson says: I've lit the house myself so that no one else can happen to me, and then I know at least who it was. - That's not enough for me! [[Reassurance at the Liberal Forum.]] That all that we are presenting does not exist only in our imagination and are not just unfounded fears, shows the government template just received in the house about a federal law with which a police cooperation law is passed – international police cooperation. Read this, Mr Kiss. There you have the popularity of international data transfer, and there is even a regulatory authority for the Minister of the Interior that, while avoiding all data protection regulations, he can determine which places abroad the data can be transmitted with grid search and noise attack in Austria. You know very well that the data protection reservations that have been made with Europol, Interpol and Schengen are not worth the paper on which they stand if you can retrieve from the international authorities all the data you have identified with grid arrests from there at any time and pretend here in the country as if you had deleted them.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5757	Talk time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5772	That's double morality! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5803	No further words are available. The current hour is over. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5824	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6047	Members Dr. Schmidt and Comrades requested urgent consideration of the written question 2569/J of the Liberal Forum to the Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs concerning years of failure in education policy and the cost explosion in the school sector. The business conditions are met. The call for urgent request will take place at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2225/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6072	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 2225/AB to Question 2323/J by Mr Rossmann and Mr Comrades concerning the presentation of Austria at the ITB in Berlin and the process of Austria's advertising in general by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. As the urgent question has just been dealt with, this short debate will take place following the urgent request. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6096	The Members of Parliament also have power. Stadler and comrades according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested that an investigation committee be set up to investigate political and legal responsibility in connection with the divestments of the federal shares in the CA-BV to Bank Austria. There is a desire to have a debate on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, this debate will take place after completion of the agenda. The proposal will then also be voted on. Supplement to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6120	I have a request from Mr Kostelka and Dr. Khol, the report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government template 693 of the Supplements: Convention on the determination of the competent State for the examination of an application for asylum lodged in a Member State of the European Communities, together with Protocol, and Protocol on the correction of the Convention in 757 of the Supplements pursuant to § 49 para. To add 5 of the Rules of Procedure to the agenda as Agenda item 2a. The decision on such a request requires the presence of half of the members of the House and a two-thirds majority. I shall therefore vote on this request by Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol to supplement the agenda with the above item 2a. In the case of consent, I ask for a sign of approval. . I note that the request was decided with the required two-thirds majority. We therefore have an additional item 2a on the agenda for today's sitting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6163	I would also like to sum up the debate on points 1 to 8, 12 and 13, 14 to 17, as well as 21 and 22 of the agenda today. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. That is why we shall proceed in this way. I shall now go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6190	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 135, ÖVP 126, Freeman 117, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be found over it. I'm asking: Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That's what it's decided to do. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Templates (685 of the Supplements): Foreign Law 1997 – FrG and (686 of the Supplements): Asylum Law 1997 – Asylum G and claims 5/A (E) of Deputies Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on the revision of the Xenophobia Laws, 17/A of Deputies Mag. Terezija Stoisitsand comrades concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 31 December 1989 ==References====External links==* Official website No. 466/1992, as last amended by BGBl. No. 351/1995, amended, and 19/A by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisitsand comrades concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 31 December 1989 ==References====External links==* Official website No. 466/1992, as last amended by BGBl. No. 351/1995, amended, and petition No. 8 on "Solidarity with the Victims of the Austrian Asylum Act", presented by the Deputies Mag. Terezija Stoisits(755 and 755 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report and request of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the draft Federal Law on the Independent Federal Asylsenate (UBASG) (756 of the Supplements) 2a. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (693 of the Supplements): Convention on the determination of the competent State for the examination of an application for asylum lodged in a Member State of the European Communities and of the Protocol on the correction of the Convention (757 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (689 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Foreign Employment Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (717 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from Parliament to the Council (Doc. Herbert Hauptand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Foreign Employment Act (718 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 217/A by Mr Karl Ollingenrond Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Constitution of Labour (720 of Supplements) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 218/A (E) by Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on the creation of the possibility of part-employment (721 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 305/A (E) by Mr Edith Halle Rund Comrades on the creation of an "eternal status" in unemployment insurance (722 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6351	We come to points 1 to 8 of today's agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. Is there a wish to report on one of these applications? - That's not the case. That is what we are going to enter into the debate. The first speaker is Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé. It wished the clock to be set to 10 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6382	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I remember exactly the "press hour" with the Minister of the Interior 14 days ago. In this, Mr Schlögl admitted that in recent years there has been a huge migration to Austria, with the emphasis on "gigantic". And he's got it all right: In 1975 there were 220 000 foreigners who lived in Austria, now it is over 720 000, whereas the illegals estimated to be between 100 000 and 400 000 are not included. Minister! They have, in rare honesty, presented the dramatic situation in which Austria is affected by this move, but I miss the consequences of this too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This dramatic immigration to Austria, which you referred to as "gigantic", should have had the consequence of presenting here a government template which provides for a drastic restriction of immigration, yes, in reality a zero immigration. It is true, however, that you are continuing the path that your predecessor, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has taken, namely a relaxation of immigration through family succession. And I don't understand. Although you have recognized the seriousness of the situation, continue this unwholesome policy of the Minister One. But I tell you, Minister: The majority of the population is certainly not on your side. And that's what I'm telling you about SPÖ and ÖVP. There was a survey by the IMAS Institute, which stated that 62 percent of the population are against more foreigners. Only 15 percent of the Austrians say that we have too little foreigners and that the foreign laws are considered too strict. 42 percent of Austrians also feel that those foreigners who came from Eastern European countries are a burden. As a conclusion of this investigation, IMAS Chief Kirchhofer points out that a liberalisation of the alien laws would therefore undoubtedly not be covered by public opinion, even directed against it. Nevertheless, you loosen the laws of strangers, ladies and gentlemen! This continues to keep the gates of Austria open to foreigners, and you offer them – and you admit that there is only one dispute between ÖVP and SPÖ – the possibility that about 10,000 new immigrants will come to Austria. Of course, all the problems we already have will be heightened. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not understand at all, Minister, that you did not propose this development through this government template. And one thing I would also like to say to you: Especially objectionable in this whole discussion, I believe that you are putting these alien laws under the title: Integration before re-entry. In this way, you will faithfully assure the population that no new immigrants are coming to Austria, but you only try to integrate those who already live here in Austria. This is not the case, however, because new foreigners are coming to Austria on a regular basis through the family succession. This you hide in a reprehensible way from the Austrian population. With this, you scatter her literally sand into the eyes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You've been doing this for a long time. Depending on how it fits you right now, you once demand that the foreign laws be taken more stringently, and another time that they should be loosened again. This is particularly evident when elections are in front of the door. Only: The Austrians come to you pretty slowly on what game you play with them. Before elections, you always notice that you show guilt. For example, Mayor Häupl said in a self-disciplinary action that was very much the case before the last elections: We were too careless when moving foreigners. He has thus made a clear commitment to the so-called delete-nak laws. But now, obviously, you don't want to know any more about the fact that these delete-nak laws were good. Before the 1996 elections, Mr Cap also said: There will be no deviation from the law of cancellations as long as all these problems exist in the labour market and the housing market. At that time and especially at the Vienna elections, you were afraid that the skins would swim away from you. They have already predicted what losses the SPÖ will have to bear, and have really been hypocrites – but I think the word is already part of the catalogue of perverted words, which you can no longer say – so really hypocritically played ahead of the Austrian population. But the elections are hardly over, you hardly have licked your wounds, from which you get quite well in elections, continue in the usual water, my dear ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. We have placed great hopes in you, Minister Schlögl. We have assumed that you will give your coalition partner and also the SPÖ pure wine and tell them how dramatic the situation is that you really can see. But no, you seem to have allied yourself with the left in your party, because you probably believe that you are going to score for your position, and have presented this government template that we are discussing today and which will further aggravate the dramatic state in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I'd like to make one more point. Your first legislative proposal, which you present here, deals with the situation of foreigners. It is not important to you and not worth the effort to present a government template for a better security police situation. Not the situation of the executive is important to you, not the situation at the borders is important to you, not measures to combat organised crime are important to you. No, you have made the improvement of foreigners in Austria the first concern of a government template. This really cannot be expected to be our sympathy, because we believe that the other problems are far more important in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have thus become a useful servant of those who play their ideological game to the detriment of the Austrians, who always see first and foremost the rights of foreigners and not the situation in which the Austrians are located. Minister! They are Lower Austrians, but you will probably also know the situation in Vienna, the situation in which many Vienna have been brought, because such a foreign policy has just been pursued. And especially you and all those who also know what the situation is, will allow this family union to an unexpected extent. In Vienna alone, 100 000 foreigners will be drawn through the family merger. This also creates a lot of problems in the housing sector, in the workplace sector. Even now, 5,000 young people are not getting a apprenticeship. Yes, what do you think the situation will follow through the family estate? There are young people coming, there are people who want to have a job. Please do not always refer to the Convention on Human Rights, because Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights states only: Everyone is entitled to respect his private and family life, his home and his correspondence. There is no point in saying that if a foreigner lives in a particular country, he must also have the right to bring up his entire family, including nursing children and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! You should really consider the situation in which you brought the Austrians through your false foreign policy, which you want to know only before elections, in order to put the voters in some way to the line. You have really pursued an improper policy in recent years, and you are continuing it now; an inappropriate policy towards the Austrians, but also those foreigners who have been living in Austria for a very long time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6484	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6505	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé, her accusation to the Minister of the Interior, that this government template to be dealt with today would be his first activity in order to appear here as Minister of the Interior, is nevertheless very far-reaching. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: "To appear" I didn't say!]] You must have really slept the development of the last months, since Karl Schlögl was in charge of the department, otherwise you could not come to such a conclusion. It is precisely this Minister of the Interior who, both publicly and in the Federal Government, is constantly committed to improving the situation in the field of security executives, for example the introduction of extended methods of investigation in the fight against organised crime. The current hour, which ended earlier, was devoted to a subject which we will be discussing here at one of the next plenary sessions. The accusation to the Minister of State Schlögl that he is appearing here through particular xenophobicity is therefore, I believe, very far-reaching. Because once again you're so much on the Foreigners have started: As far as I am aware, Members of your club of foreigners are not quite unknown – that is, if you need them as cheap workers. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who are you talking about?]] You know exactly who I mean. The names are generally known and have been published in the media. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who are you talking about? Who is that?]] – By Members of the Freedom Party! Ladies and gentlemen! The present draft law contains significant improvements to the legislation in force. Our proposals aim to make them even better. – These were the words of the UN High Commissioner on very specific questions during expert hearing in the Subcommittee. But these are also words that come from an expert who really knows this thing. But these are also words that give a good witness to Austrian foreign and asylum policy. The Xenophobia Act and the Xenophobia Act were created in the early 1990s to take account of the political changes in Europe, and they have proved themselves to be quite successful in their intentions. These laws have prevented uncontrolled immigration. However, certain problems have arisen in the implementation of the two laws. It was therefore logical and also necessary that, in view of these shortcomings, a summary of the previously applicable foreign law and the existing residence law, as it is present to Parliament in the current version, would result in a single foreign law. This is the outcome of the previous practice of execution. The government template presented today by the Minister of the Interior has found a very broad echo in the review. It has already led to extensive discussions and debates in the run-up to the discussions here in the National Council. While the draft law does not go far enough far to the Liberal Forum and the Greens, the liberals, as we have just heard from the mouth of the liberals, Dr. Partik-Pablé, consider it to be extremely foreign-friendly. In this light work has been done in the Committee on the Interior: one was too much and the other too little. And that was also the tenor in public. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from By the opposition parties, Boycotts intensively discussed this matter at three subcommittee meetings and at a meeting of the full committee. I would like to stress once again: intense! I therefore do not fully understand that the opposition today complains that at the last minute so many changes have been made to this law and that new legislation has been added. So far, the accusation has rather gone in the reverse direction, so far it has been said that this government is not bringing anything further, it is delaying and it has not come to any results in its government work. But if it goes quickly, go a little further, it does not fit the opposition either. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You don't seem to be able to do anything right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection we have worked in depth on this proposal, with the start of the expert hearing, and during this expert hearing there has been a very strong exchange of views among the various Members, but also among the various experts, and this exchange of views and thus this expert hearing has led to the introduction of a number of amendments. What are the most important points and objectives of the new Xenophobia Act and the innovative asylum law? – Under the Xenophobia Act, the ultimate goal – Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, you tried to present it differently here, but that was always the line of the Minister of the Interior: Integration is facing new immigration! This ultimate goal moves like a red thread through the new alien law. In the future, new immigration should only be more important for key forces and for family succession within the quota. Other objectives of the new Xenophobia Act are: residence confirmation after more than eight years of legal residence in Austria; Right to access the labour market for immigrants entering our country; creation of an integration council; effective control of tow with significantly higher penalties. As regards asylum law, there is the principle that a provisional right of residence shall apply throughout the asylum process. A representative of UNHCR shall be involved in the procedure in the asylum procedure at the airport. In the case of asylum at the border, there is for the first time a two-instance examination procedure. Finally, an independent asylum Senate as an appeal body is created by a completely new law, which is also under consideration today. I am surprised that, after the discussions in the Committee on the Interior, there are still discussions, written inputs, public statements of words, especially those of NGOs which, in many points of their opinions, lack any objectivity. By the last minute, the two government parties in the Committee on the Interior have endeavoured to respond, in particular, to amendments and proposals from these private organizations. That not everything could be fulfilled is obvious, but in the last minute some essential points were added to the law, such as legal advice at the border which was not previously contained in the law, or the exchange of data only with those who come undocumented to our country, and not with those who come to us documented. All these are points that have been called for by the NGOs only after the discussions and have been taken into account by us. Of course, all those who seek political asylum in Austria and seek protection from political, ethnic or religious persecution in accordance with the Geneva Convention will also receive full protection in Austria. There is no political task, as said yesterday in a press release "SOS fellow human". In this case, one cannot speak of a Stelbst task. Of course, we are committed to the criteria of the Geneva Convention. It should also be noted that, in this expert hearing, all the experts, regardless of which party they were set up, and also the representative of the UNHCR, felt that this draft law was an improvement in relation to the current legal situation. Depending on where the individual representatives were assigned in the expert hearing, their further wishes have been made. This law is undoubtedly a compromise in weighing the daily reality with which we are confronted, a compromise with which, as I mean, both sides can live well. If, on the one hand, we are quick to make an inhumane, a bad foreign policy over the last few years, and the other, which seems to us to be particularly competent on this issue, presupposes that the government's foreign policy is fully directed against the foreigners, it must be pointed out and underlined what Mr Partik-Pablé said, namely that over the last ten years, the proportion of foreign citizens in our country has doubled and that Austria has taken an attitude which has been exemplary in relation to refugees due to the war in Exjugoslavia and has been qualified by many organisations as exemplary. Of the approximately 100,000 refugees from ex-Yugoslavia, about 70 000 have found work in Austria; they are integrated into the Austrian labour market. In view of these facts, we can do so, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum and of the Greens, at the best of will, do not speak of the fact that we have made an anti-foreign policy. The recognition rate for asylum procedures is almost 9 percent in Austria and is the second highest in all recognition rates within the EU countries behind Sweden. This too is a point that should be mentioned here. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the facts of the foreign policy of this Federal Government, a balance between what we can tolerate in our country and what is necessary. No one can get past these facts. It was a very great concern for us to create more legal certainty both for the asylum seekers and those who have to comply with the asylum laws, with the two government proposals which are in place here today. In my opinion, they are also in line with the intentions of the two government parties in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6592	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6614	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot understand the previous positions in the debate, especially those of Mr Leikam. Mr Leikam! They thought that because Mr Partik-Pablé took an extreme opposition to the two government proposals, they went far too far, and therefore because the Liberal Forum and the Greens criticise the two government proposals from the opposite approach, the two legislative drafts were in the middle, and said the average value was good. Faith You're telling me: There is no mean between certain positions, since you have to decide! There are no partial fundamental rights, but there are them or they are not available, and there is no partial rule of law, but there is him or there is no such thing as him. I therefore believe that it is legitimate to state that this is a fundamental question. We have been dealing with this legal matter in detail and intensively for years. This has our work in concrete terms in two amendments which we have submitted to the President of the Council – I would ask them to be in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to be distributed – found their rainfall. These two amendments are very comprehensive. We have proposed amendments to 50 digits alone in the Foreign Law and 15 digits in the Asylum Act. This is the condensate of a long discussion, of many discussions with non-governmental organisations – from "SOS-Mithmensch" to UNHCR – with the competent Federal Ministers, of consultations without numbers in committees, already in 1995 and 1996. It's the sum of a long work. All these papers, proposals and suggestions have long been available to the Committee, to the Members of the Government, to the relevant members of the Government, but they have not been dealt with by these documents except with the proposals which, for example, have been reimbursed by the UNHCR or the Caritas. I hold these papers here consciously high – serious, legitimately formulated proposals by the UNHCR and the Caritas. [[the speaker shall hold two written documents]] It has not been taken into account in de facto – with a very small exception that I will address, because this small exception is very bright. Of course, serious experts in expert hearing have admitted that it is better there or there than it has been before. But just because something that is very bad is slightly improving, it is not good yet. From the statements of the UNHCR or the Caritas that they can recognize improvements, it is absolutely cynical given the fact that the written amendments proposed by these organizations have been ignored. They were not satisfied with what they had been presented. They have made constructive proposals. I do not want to admit, either, that our extensive amendments contain one or another proposal, which is also contained in the two drafts mentioned above, because those who deal with human rights are very quick to reach the same result as anyone else who does the same. It is not true that the wheel has to be invented here. The Convention on Human Rights is already a few years old, and the Geneva Convention on Refugees was not decided until yesterday. That is why I would like to expressly say: It's not who you're boasting about here! Above all, it is not an integration package that you have always spoken about, because you have not addressed all the issues related to citizenship at all. Furthermore, real harmonisation between residence rights and foreign employment law has not taken place again. But only by harmonizing these two fields and ultimately regulating them from a single source in a law could we eliminate many problems that exist today and, above all, would we create real access to what is called housing and integration. Because to claim or claim that this law is a service of integration is truly courageous. There is some small progress, which is correct, but we do not find real integration measures at least in these two legislative drafts. I would like to give you an example: the obligation to issue certificates for strangers. Mrs Partik-Pablé is delighted, but she did not think to end, because the obligation of identification for foreigners means de facto the obligation to issue certificates for all. If I do not have an ID card and no matter what the reasons why, willfully or not, I am already in a de facto requirement if I am not able to prevent this suspicion from being a resident by means of my ID card. It then turns out, after perhaps holding me down, that I have checked my identity, that this was a mistake, but in order to prevent the error, I will be well advised to carry with me a card from the introduction of the obligation of ID for strangers themselves, so that I do not get into the unpleasant situation of being arrested in advance to prove that I do not need one. - That's police state! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Another example that we also mentioned in the discussion is the Mother-Child Pass for strangers. There is the rule that when a non-Austrian citizen in Austria brings a child to life, the child shares the mother's residence permit. If the mother has a residence permit, she automatically also has the child, she has none, so the child has no automatically either. Whether the father has a residence permit, the government parties are not interested. I'll tell you: If you want to create justice in this case and respect human dignity and human rights, you have to be able to give the child the residence permit alternatively derived from both parents. Not only should the mother alone be decisive for this, but the father should also play a role in this. And I think that this regulation clearly shows the attitude with which this law was written. Mr Leikam said it had been discussed in such detail. . I mean, there was no debate on this in detail in these committees. Although we boycotted them, our employees were there – you know that – and partly did not come out of amazement. The second committee meeting, in which so "extensive" was discussed, did not take even 45 minutes and was almost exclusively concerned with the question of au pair girls; I do not think that was the central question in the Foreign Law and the Asylum Act! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] On the other hand, the subject which has led to the debate today, namely the Bundesasylsenat, was not discussed at all in the de facto committee. In this context, only the documents produced were presented to the members of the Committee for consideration, but this was not prepared there. On the contrary: It was prepared in the pre-parliamentary area, and the discussion in the committees – I would like to give you this, because it is quite a praise for the opposition – has not been easily possible, as the inadvisability was significant. Mr Kiss! You know that very well, only you believe that if you are not eyewitnesses, you are not informed. Even if we believe that it is better that there is now the Xenophobia Law and no more two laws – we admit it by all – does not mean that we praise the law. It is, however, a law that one must be an expert to read. If you are a person who is affected and perhaps already integrated in the special case, but the German language is not yet powerful enough to be able to read Austrian legistic texts, then you have little of the law, but you are absolutely dependent on consultation. To integrate a few clues, why we are so skeptical. The human rights convention was indifferent to you during the family union. They did not understand that there are other ways of controlling the family move over several years, to decide on a quota which is per se illegal. They did not understand that it would have been possible to distribute the notices over a period of time to all those seeking family integration to allow the immediate application. Legal certainty is a great asset, and if I know today that I can catch up with my family in three years, I prefer to have to apply for it more than three times and fail three times in the quota. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] You are also mistaken about the residence confirmation, because anyone who is a year without employment can be relocated without further delay – despite legal residence permits. You did not follow our proposals either. We felt that it would be better to rely on health, health and construction police standards instead of on any locality, simply on those who are valid in the respective state. If an apartment is okay with health, construction and sanitation, it must be recognized as sufficient. Where is the progress made in 1995 when we carried out the following committee statement - I quote - if there is any provision for living if there is a collective contractually paid employment or a statutory transfer service intended for life assurance? - You didn't accept that. This means that even if a person is paid for a collective contract and has a transfer service intended for life assurance, he can be postponed. So this is neither integration nor residence consolidation, nor social or humanitarian. Therefore, you must not be surprised, Mr. Leikam, if Mr. Bishop Weber writes a letter in the last minute – the church is not any private organization. Although the Church is located in private space, we stand for the separation of Church and State, but if a moral authority addresses a letter to this House at the last minute from the weight of the President of the Episcopal Conference, it does not make it the higher honor of the Liberals or the Greens, but the higher honor of humanity! Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] We don't call on him, but I call him "witnesses" because you said: A few more arrived in the last minute! – You wonder, although no single point has been taken into account in the Caritas proposals, that Mr. Bishop Weber is still trying to pull the emergency brake? - Here you go. [[Abg. Leikam: That's not true at all! Several points!]] – No, not several points, but a single point, and this only point is that you now allow NGOs to consult at the border on request. I'll tell you: That's very good, but what do you explicitly admit? – That your local officials are not able to advise. You admit that. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] And why are they unable to do so? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] I do not want to give the wrong impression that I mean that these would be incapable people. But they are in the conflict that they must, according to their wisdom, try to get the people out. And if you work there on this mission, you can't at the same time advise someone how to look for asylum in the best way possible. It is the authority's duty to dissociate you from doing so; you will privatize this area. You know, we are very much for privatisation, but for the privatisation of fundamental rights we are not. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] There is no question of privatising fundamental rights in asylum matters! And who pays for this? – The NGOs, the Caritas pay for it themselves, the UNHCR is known to have a "overarching" budget. Staff have them anyway "massive", they can put at any limit any number of people to the 24-hour service, because they have to do that because you have provided a 48-hour frist. Consider: The amendment which was tabled, namely that if one wants to take an appeal, one should extend this 48-hour Frist by five days, you have rejected and said: We can't, because then the safe third countries won't take the people back. – Then negotiate You are keeping better agreements with the safe third countries! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Mr Leikam shakes his head. – I understand, you’re right, of course, it’s practical, because if you only have six days, you have to stop watching people get away within two days, because they have to take the others, that’s clear, we’re saving this stupid non-refoulement test, that’s unpleasant, because you don’t know exactly what they’re doing then. The Hungarians are well advised to be skeptical, because they have a reservation against the Geneva Convention on Refugees. Slovakia is not what I imagine under a secure third country, and even Slovenia, which I value very much otherwise, had in 1996 in asylum matters a rate of recognition of two people – believe me, it has sought more. Slovenia is therefore not a safe third country. Mr Leikam – and I ask Mr Kiss this prophylactically – I ask you whether you can really like it when Bishop Weber writes such a letter when the Caritas feel ridiculous. - I don't think so. You will go out here and say that it is not true that this is the typical sadness of the Liberals, because they were not in committee, and so on. That's what you're going to say, but your moral commitment isn't gonna get you out of it. If you have a conscience, I appeal to that conscience; use it! You have a free mandate. It's not too late yet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6717	Mr. Dr. Kier has tabled two amendments, one to the Asylum Act and one to the Xenophobia Act, and they are sufficiently supported. Both applications are relatively extensive, Dr. Kier presented them in the key points. I therefore have in the sense of § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall cause the reproduction and distribution of applications. Both applications are included in the negotiations. Applications shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request Dr Kier, Member of Parliament, partners on the amendment of the Government template (686 d. B.) as amended by the Committee Report (755 d. B.) concerning the Federal Law on the Grant of Asylum (Asyl Law 1997 – AsylumG) introduced in the course of the debate on TOP 1 of the 77. National Council meeting (XX. GP) The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Law, with which the government template (686 d. B.) as amended by the Committee's report (...) on a Federal Law on the Grant of Asylum (Asyl Law 1997 – AsylumG) The National Council decided: The government template (686 d. B.) as amended by the Committee's report (...) on a Federal Law on the Grant of Asylum (Asyl Law 1997 – AsylumG) 1. The word "Fremde(r)" is replaced by "Person(s) non-Austrian citizenship" throughout the asylum law. 2. § 4 para. 3 is amended and reads as follows: § 4 (3): "Requirement for the adoption of the security of persecution is the existence of a written declaration of acceptance by the eligible third country, in which a fair asylum procedure and compliance with the protection of the refoulement is guaranteed for the specific individual case." 3rd. § 4 para. 5 is amended as follows: § 4 (5): "Can persons of non-Austrian citizenship, whose asylum application according to Abs. 1 was rejected as inadmissible not to be rejected, postponed or postponed in a safe third country within a period of eight weeks from the date of application, its application for asylum must be examined in Austria and a provisional residence permit granted to them. 4. § 6 Z 2 is amended as follows: § 4 Z 2.: "the alleged threat of persecution in the country of origin after the claim of the asylum seekers is obviously not in the nature. 1 Section A.Z. 2 of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, or 5. § 6 points 3 and 4. 6. Section 10 para. 2, second sentence is amended and reads as follows: § 10 (2) second sentence: "They are permitted only for parents of a minor, spouse, minor unmarried children and disabled children;" 7. § 17 is amended and reads as follows: § 17 "Persons of non-Austrian citizenship who apply for asylum or asylum enforcement on the occasion of a border crossing post shall be personally heard by a federal councillor appointed to decide. They shall not be refused until the final decision on the application for asylum has been taken." 8. § 21 para. 1 is amended as follows: § 21 (1): "To asylum seekers, the Foreign Law applies as a whole, the §§ 33 para. 2, 36 para. 2 Z 8, 55 and 61 to 63 FRG, however." 9. § 21 para. 2 is amended and reads as follows: § 21 (2): "A claimant must not be rejected in the country of origin and must not at all be rejected or rescinded; the transmission of personal data of an asylum seeker to the country of origin shall not be permitted." 10. § 26 para. 2, last sentence is amended and reads as follows: § 26 (2) Last sentence: "The fact sheet shall be transmitted to any applicant and to any applicant for asylum when submitting the asylum application in a language which is understandable to them. The applicant and the applicant for asylum must also be informed of the possibility of contact with a refugee advisor and must provide him or her with the necessary assistance." 11th@item: inlistbox § 27 para. 1 is amended and reads as follows: § 27 (1): "Asylwerbers are to be heard personally by an organ manager of the Bundesasylamt, appointed to decide." 12. § 29 first sentence is amended and reads as follows: § 29, first sentence: "Decisions shall include the statement of appeal, the reference according to § 61a AVG and the reasoning for the decision in a language understood to the applicant for asylum." 13. § In § 32 para. 1 the following second sentence shall be inserted: § 32(1), second sentence: "On request of the applicant, the time limit for bringing an appeal shall be extended for another five days without the need for or for specific reasons." The following rates are shifted accordingly. 14. The following paragraph 4 is added to Article 32: § 32 (4): "Each asylum seeker shall be provided free of charge by an alyl-legislative and independent procedural advisor in an appropriate language for the person concerned." 15. Section 38 para. The first sentence is amended and reads as follows: § 38 (4): first sentence: "Members of the independent Bundesasylsenate must be legal and have professional experience regarding administrative law."
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7232	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. You have a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7253	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was bitterly pushed up at today's breakfast readings of morning coffee. I say so and describe my existence. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: More sugar!]] I have read in the "standard" that the one who does not vote for these laws today is not a Christian. At least that's what Vienna's Caritas Director Michael Landau says. I also read that the one who has no conscience today for this integration package, said the chairman of the Catholic Bishops' Conference Johann Weber. I say that because I am Christian because I have a conscience, I agree with good conscience, good heart, and above all because of conviction for this law, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It was the Caritas Director and Bishop Weber who did not mind putting these things into space, going to glue to the Greens and Liberals. I know from a responsible work, from the discussions with NGOs, from the negotiations in the committee and the subcommittee that we have not only made it easy, but, on the contrary, we have come up with a solution. We are convinced that this solution is more than present and meets all the rule of law. We know that we are taking a good course with this new foreign law and with this asylum law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I asked the UN High Commissioner Dr. Blatter a simple question at the end of the talks – I just wanted to know, I wanted to make the sample of nails; he's not anyone – I said: Dr. Blatter! Please be so nice and give a clear, comprehensible answer to my clear question. Dr. Blatter, how do you stand as UN High Commissioner on this government proposal? – I quote what Dr. Blatter said: The government template is a major, substantial legal improvement. That means – and this is my conclusion: It cannot be as bad as it can be, for example, to argue with Greens and Liberals. It cannot therefore be said that those who, certainly borne by good knowledge, do something for people for humanitarian reasons, for refugees – such as Caritas and Bishops' Conference – are driving us in this matter. You should note that we have taken the work seriously. But you should also know that we have to bear the responsibility and not have to bear the responsibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The ambiguity with which we are arguing here is always baffling to me every time. The day on which we discussed this government proposal in the Committee on the Interior, for example, was 27th. May –, there were two press releases of the Freemen. ==References====External links== May I quote from the APA: Haider calls for an immigration stop in Austria. On the same day, the Freedom Party of Burgenland – I also have the Elaborate from the Press Office of the Freemen – calls for: [[Abg. Haller: Season kidneys!]] Foreigners inside. We need foreigners in tourism. – So the liberals say on the same day: Foreigners, foreigners in! [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] This is the classic double-beddedness that the liberals serve! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is precisely in this ambivalent relationship that we also have to act, we have to negotiate, but we are convinced in the matter itself that we have found the right way. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're the only one who's going off!]] – No, of course the Minister of the Interior does not leave me, because even there I do not make a murderer’s pit from my heart. The negotiations, which Andreas Khol as our chief negotiator with the Minister of the Interior and with the Minister of the Social Affairs, with Mag. Schlögl and Mrs. Hostasch, led, went over the stage in a good spirit. There were no mistones, they were atmospheric in a form of which one can say: We were working together to find real solutions to solutions for the law, to solutions for the Austrians, as well as decent solutions for foreigners. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not want to address the details of the legislative package because Mr Leikam has already expressed it; I do not want to repeat it, because I have only a few minutes of time. But I would like to reply to Mr Kier's comments. Mr Kier! You argue with us and pretend to have swallowed the wisdom right away. They were indeed not in this subcommittee; you have not been there. I then meant by the way in a fluffy floskel, behind us were the volcanic observers, that is, the club secretary of FPÖ, Liberals and the Green Party, as well, to observe us, and then, if they had listened to us, to convey the feeling that we would be caught if they would then report to you; it was not so. We haven't talked for 45 minutes, but we've been running for hours. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: 46!]] We have dealt seriously and seriously with it, and I am sure, Mr Kier, you have not been able to do so, against your accusation that we have not acted accordingly in this matter. The opposite is the case, believe me, Mr Kier. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Langthaler gave the summit of double-dwelling. Just one day we also discussed in the Subcommittee, it announced to the public crocodiles: These barleyy Members of the Coalition Party go into committees and are not prepared at all to know what is in the laws of these unprepared Red and Black Members. – On the same day that you, the Green Party, committed the third scapegoat, since you were not present in either the first or the second subcommittee meeting, or in the third subcommittee, although it is a supposedly very elementary package of laws, which is, it is said, such great concern to the Greens. Mrs Langthaler! You and the Greens have argued double-fielded, the Liberals do it, the Freemans obviously do the same. [[Abg. Scheibner: Think of your speech with One! That was double-bedded!]] Doppelbädiger can't really argue on this matter! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: The Austrian People's Party carries this package of laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] We recognize our manuscript in this package of laws. We were in favour of harmonising the foreign package with the Foreign Employment Act, we have advocated that those who live in that country can have access to the labour market under reasonable, rule-of-law conditions that can be understood. We know that we are going through that human path, which is exactly the middle, Mr Kier. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: But that's not a middle!]] Yes, the middle is not bad. It is not bad in the political spectrum, and it is not bad in this matter either. The middle is the viable basis for this matter, believe me. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's why we say: We are convinced that with this foreign law and with the asylum law for this country, for the concerns and fears of the Austrians living here, but also for those who have hopes when they come from abroad, we create the framework in which our officials, whether in the field of executives or the administration, can take the appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7429	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7450	Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague from Burgenland Paul Kiss has today – I don't want to comment on it any more – set to a stage with former mayor Zilk. The former mayor Zilk verbally opposes the Günther Traxler, commentator in the "Standard", with a Goebbels quote, and Paul Kiss describes the presence of the club secretary during the committee boycott in the Committee as "violish observer". – That is self-evident, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: So, he said that?- Oh, my God!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Integration before or instead of re-entry. – Under this currency, Minister of the Interior has Mag. Schlögl, I say completely neutral, is trying to explain this so-called integration package to the public. Mr. Minister! Integration before new entry? – Absolutely yes, I do not disagree with you, since I am entirely with you that one tries to integrate those fellow citizens and fellow citizens who already live here, offering them opportunities to find themselves in their new home country, that they are almost preferred to those potential and future immigrants who are not yet in Austria but outside. That is of course. But, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, if you bring this slogan to the public, just to "preach" it – without thinking it in the religious sense – then this must be accompanied by measures within the Federal Government, within the administration, which are also justifiable. What does it mean to promote the integration of people who already live here? – Minister of State! It can only be said that there are opportunities to eliminate the differences between Austrian citizens on both the legal and social levels, and not yet Austrian citizens, but there are residents of this country who are trying to reduce these differences, where it is only possible to try to make them as small as possible. This is integration! This is integration in the sense that it is understood worldwide that access is facilitated for those groups of people most in need of access to certain social services of the State most urgently needed by social services. Integration in the Vienna of today, where there is a high proportion of people who do not have an Austrian passport – that does not question anyone – should lead to an opening of municipal and social housing for foreign citizens. This would be an integration measure which, if you had put it in the context of this integration package, would mean that the integration package would also comply with that name. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, Mr Federal Minister and also Mrs Federal Minister – sorry, I did not welcome you before – these measures are missing. Not even as small things as passive voting rights to the Works Council are included in the so-called integration package – Karl Ollinger will address these constitutional issues – not even this tiny little thing has been included, although there is already this in all EU countries. A foreign worker, a foreign worker, can become a works council only in Austria! Federal Minister! Don't talk about integration before re-entry, don't talk about integration measures if even these little things are not included here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! But I would also like to give a third example of what it was all about in this long-term discussion process. I have already said it in the debate on objections: Since 1993, this package has been discussed. Minister Lösnak had to take his hat because of his weak performance in this field and due to the pressure of the public, Mr. One has been called away from his post because he has not enforced himself. It was always about integration. [[Abg. Leikam: What you know!]] But where is the discussion about a change in citizenship in Austria? Where are measures that actually help foreign citizens in the country who are already in the country? Where are they? - You're missing! You're not included here! Apart from the entire legal environment, the way in which we deal with the human rights movement – I am now dealing with this term – is an outrageous thing when the new Chairman of the committee, Mr Leikam, goes and says: In the last second, private NGOs – as he mentioned it – still allow themselves to raise objections here. Dear colleague Leikam! I am a Catholic Austrian, as are many others, and I am: If the Bishop of Graz allows all the clubmen – not only our clubwoman – to send a letter expressing his concerns and, as he calls it, his concern and horror, I expect you at least – if you do not already "SOS fellow man", if you do not amnesty them internationally, if you do not address them to the Bishop of Graz, NGOs UNHCR, otherwise, this appreciation is given to the Bishop of Graz that you take seriously his intervention, which has arisen from the emergency. [[Abg. Leikam: You should have heard him yourself, the UNHCR! He was totally our opinion!]] If you had taken the Caritas proposals seriously, Mr. Bishop Weber would not have written this letter. He didn't make this out of jux and brilliance, but because he's worried and horrified. That's it, Mr. Leikam! That's not what one – I put it under quotation marks – "radial" greens or "radial" liberals is driving to raise concerns, but rather an extremely moderate bishop such as the Bishop of Graz, Bishop Weber. And I think it's absolutely below every level that you're here for. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Leikam: I could tell you what the initiators of the Church People's Desire think of him!]] In addition to the fact that the EIA has not said a word to this effect, I do not say anything now, because there are still some speakers who could repeat it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the - as Mr Leikam believes, private - NGO UNHCR. The UNHCR has made numerous, of course expert proposals to amend the asylum law in Austria, because this is the task of the UNHCR. I now take one point out of these numerous proposals to demonstrate how your understanding of the implementation of proposals is and what actually comes out of the law. – If Mr Leikam speaks in front of me, it is almost as at the time of Mr. Elmecker; he offers so much that he cannot use his entire concept of speech, because he is not allowed to say so much – "difficults" – not quite correct and sometimes absolutely incorrect. [[Abg. Leikam: That's not so bad!]] [[Abg. Leikam: After bravo!]] [[Abg. Leikam: Say "good"!]] The UNHCR has, of course, also made the proposal to advise the asylum seeker at the border and has formulated a supplement to § 32 as follows: "Each asylum seeker shall be provided free of charge by an alyl-legislative and independent procedural advisor in an appropriate language for the person concerned." – That was the proposal, the request of the UNHCR. What has the Austrian legislator – so far the Committee on the Interior, hopefully not you, ladies and gentlemen – done from it? – "...if the fact sheet is handed out", namely the asylum seekers, "you should point out that they are free to take advice on their case by ecclesial or humanitarian organizations." - Now just! What do I need to point out to anyone that something is free of him? What's this sentence? Should we point out that there are humanitarian and ecclesial organizations in Austria? In no one's country, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! Not in Austria – not in Hungary, not in Austria – not in Slovenia, not in Austria – not in Slovakia, in the absolute no-one's country! Please, Mr Minister – and that is what UNHCR, Caritas, amnesty internationally and as they all call in connection with the asylum law – how do you imagine that what you believe should work in practice, as you believe, so precisely in the law? How to set Is that what you're gonna do? This is in such a stark contrast to the ideas of the Caritas and the UNHCR that there is absolutely no reason for implementation. I say something to you, Mr Federal Minister – and that is what all the organisations have told you: What this new asylum law will bring with it will be that towing will be booming, that all asylum seekers who have been persecuted will, of course, try to get to the interior of the country and not be subjected to this run-in, which, as the experience of recent years shows, will and will have to be negative in 99 percent of the cases, but will have to turn directly to the Federal Asyl Office in the interior, so that they will have at least the opportunity to present themselves in person, why they are being persecuted and why they are seeking asylum in Austria. They will try to avoid this shortened procedure which confronts them with a form that may be written in a language which is not known to the asylum seeker, they will try to prevent them from being rejected in a form without a face-to-face encounter with Austrian authorities for someone who had to leave his home for religious, racial or political reasons. [[Abg. Murauer: That's not true! You know that very well!]] It'll come out of this law! You know this as well as I do, because you have heard it all the time from the organizations that actually cooperate with the asylum seekers. I'll tell you something. Today in the early morning, a refugee advisor called me because she knows that this debate is taking place today. She was quite appalled at the process of a district headquarters team, namely the County Headquarters team in Mattersburg, which although the Afghan asylum seekers did not take up custody because they knew that it was difficult to move to Afghanistan, but that these Afghan asylum seekers had generously said they should go to the Bundesasylamt. But they were not perhaps given the address of the Federal Asylamt, but put a note in their hand, on which the address of the Afghan Embassy stood. People only noticed where they were when they were on the spot. – A "wonderful" advice that people who have fled from the Taliban militias in Afghanistan are sent to the Afghan Embassy! That is how it works with authorities, advice and the best possible support. I am really very, very, very pessimistic in this respect! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not hide – it is also annoyed that this has always been presented differently; I have never done so before – that there are provisions which change the current legal situation positively in these amendments, both in the foreign law and in the asylum law, especially in the foreign law. There is no doubt that the principle of adhering to the Austrian integration policy's thinking schedule is a positive one. It is positive that, after eight years in Austria, there will be a protection against disfellowshipping for fellow citizens. It is only the question whether this period of eight years is positive. But there is no doubt that there are provisions that we approve. There is no doubt that there is also little protection for victims of human trafficking – those are primarily women who are dragged here and exploited here – who will be able to claim civil rights and not leave the country at that time, insofar as they can remain in Austria for the duration of the procedure. Only: It's not going to continue. What is it then? – Then the mill begins to run exactly where it has used a little earlier. But nevertheless: The measure is positive. It is also a fact that there are also some significant improvements to cases of lack of time in 1993. I'm not going to be able to present this as positive. But, ladies and gentlemen, just because there are a few small seeds that are positive, we can't be satisfied with it, because it won't be so soon – experience time: 1993 to 1997; four years have passed – giving a significant change in foreign and integration legislation in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the policy of dealing with foreigners in Austria must be guided by the principle that immigrants are the citizens of tomorrow, which is why they must also be treated as future citizens. If everything that is decided today – hopefully not quite as it is presented, but yet – enters into force, there will no longer be any significant immigration to Austria, because what I have heard – although it is not in the law – is intended to define quotas, that cannot be called immigration. These are quotas that will be open to managers from Japan, but these are not immigrants in the sense, these are people who are looking for a temporary stay here to make a contribution to the economy – well-noticed for the Austrian! – and not for yourself. But immigration is something else. I have always hoped and expected that we will make a substantial contribution in this debate on integration issues, so to speak, on issues relating to foreigners, because for me, integration issues are really issues that concern the open society in Austria. I do not know if I have already brought it here, but I am very excited and guided by Hans Pestalozzi in my demands and in my ideas – I would like to give this to the Federal Minister and to you as well, perhaps it will be useful next time – who has formulated the following very symbolic sentence at an event in Vienna, which was then also written down: "When we had a culture of our own, we took in what we wanted. We did not feel threatened, we felt stimulated by the stranger." – One did not cry first after integration and assimilation. [[Abg. Kiss: As a liberal one can no longer say "foreigner", one must say "non-Austrian"!]] "Enraged by the stranger" – that would be the positive access that should also be imparted to the Austrian population. Something that has been a tradition in Austria for centuries to promote this mixture of positive influences of different cultures here too, that would be the use. One should not be guided and guided by the very right corner in this republic – now I don't need to go to Paul Kiss at all, which shows, as it were, double-beddedness. Paul Kisshat also mentioned an example. It's just a little stupid that he's a member of a party that's doing a similar double-bedded thing, not in these questions, but in similar ones. It really is about on the one hand giving protection to those who seek protection here, and on the other hand to those who are immigrants, that is, former host workers, to give them the opportunities to be constitutional. I stay there, even if a hundred times the opposite is said: Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, respect for private life and the right to family life must also apply in Austria. Of course, Article 8 of the ECHR does not lay down the direct right of entry and residence, but it is set out in the following note: Except for family life. Yes, what would be the right to family life, if not the right for a foreign family to live together in Austria? And this, Mr Federal Minister, is all but not guaranteed by the legal regulations that we are dealing with today. On the contrary. This is about the fact that it will be almost legally excluded to use this right. Mr. Federal Minister! I'll tell you: We shall do all we can from the Green Group to make a decision on whether Austria respects this Article 8 of the ECHR and does so in a constitutional and legal manner. They know that well-known independent – truly independent – professors, such as Professor Mayer of the University of Vienna, are very, very in doubt; this is not a green or liberal MP sitting in here. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One last sentence on racism in the law. Once we get so far to disregard bishops and legitimize the possibilities of racist action, then it is about legal certainty for the population in Austria badly ordered. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign again]] And that's what you should consider!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7648	Deputies Mag. Schweitzer has reported an actual correction. Please, honourable Member. Start with the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7673	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Mr Kiss claimed that, contrary to the German line, which provides for a stop on foreigners, the liberals of the Burgenland have committed themselves in press services to a further move of foreigners. – This claim is incorrect. The two press services quoted are solely concerned with setting the seasonal quota for tourism and agricultural harvest.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7703	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schlögl. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7724	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for the discussion that has been so far committed, open and honest and to make a few comments of a basic nature on my part. When I became Minister of the Interior of this Republic five months ago, I took over a number of tasks and challenges that were under discussion but have not yet been decided. And my goal was to carry out all these tasks and challenges step by step but very determinedly. The new regulation of foreign policy, which has been discussed for a number of years – very controversially discussed – was one of my most important tasks and challenges. I would also like to say this very openly, especially to Mrs Stoisits, in my own understanding as Minister of the Interior, that it is so marked by openness, transparency, honesty that I have no fear of contact with anyone that I am also very critical of the arguments of dissidents and dissidents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the last five months, I have been trying to find contact not only with my own party friends and with the coalition partner, but also with the opposition, no matter what the topic has been, and even if it has been so unpleasant for me as an interior minister. I do not think that the opposition can in any way complain that the Ministry of the Interior is not very open and transparent on many issues, nor does it guarantee the flow of information between officials and the security or other spokespersons of the opposition. And I would like to maintain this self-understanding that I had in the first five months. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on immigration and asylum in Austria is difficult and can only be controversial. Even if one is in need of harmony, as I am, it is difficult to go a path in this area which satisfys all the needs and all the wishes, especially because, on this sensitive subject, all Austrians, but also the five parties represented in the National Council, have very different needs, interests and expectations and pursue very different political interests. On the one hand, the Minister of the Interior cannot be restrictive enough with regard to immigration, on the other hand, people who are very strongly affected by humanitarian feelings and compassion will only be difficult to convey that the new immigration and employment of foreign citizens will be limited in the next few years. That is why this integration package, which I have tried to discuss on a truly broad consensus, is controversial from many sides. I can say that I have tried to enter into a broad dialogue with all my employees, the SPÖ and also the Austrian People's Party. We have also tried to take into account, as far as possible, the wishes and needs of non-governmental organisations and organisations active in the field of charity. This is what we have done in the framework of the legislative process, the assessment and also during the committee meetings. I therefore believe that this law, from its original version to today's decision-making, takes into account a wealth of additional wishes, demands and ideas. Nevertheless, this package is said very differently – we have experienced this here today; it is also very different in public comments. One, especially the Greens and Liberals, says that this is an alien package, the other, especially the Freedom Party, accuses me of having made a kneefall in front of the Caritas, and that is a foreign pure package. Ladies and gentlemen! I have tried to go a path of the middle, a constructive means which takes into account the fears of the people about the displacement of foreigners at work, the fears of the host workers who have been living in Austria for years before job loss and deportation, but which also takes into account that the humanitarian idea of asylum policy, which has been deeply rooted in Austria since 1945, is an obligation that is taken into account. In this sense, I hope that, after today's debate in the National Council, this integration package will help to ensure that the debate on foreign policy in Austria is re-enacted and dissociated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to say very openly and clearly that this package is a compromise package that has been tried to address the different currents and needs in our state, in our society. And in some areas this package does not correspond to my ideal ideas as a personality, as a minister. However, I believe that it has succeeded in achieving a broad, consensusal support package and in this important social area it has been possible to take into account a great many wishes and needs. This package is essentially carried by three pillars. The first pillar is that we must do everything we can to integrate those people who already live in Austria – and that is not as few as we heard from a previous speaker, namely more than 750 000 – into Austria as possible. The second pillar is that asylum policy is made more humane and practical than it may have been. And the third pillar is a clear commitment to the fact that the new move to Austria will only be possible in the next few years to a very, very small extent. Ladies and gentlemen! If we go out of these three principles and look at these laws, I think we can say that we have been quite successful in submitting a law according to these messages. I ask all the critics, especially Mr Kier, but also all the other critics, to present here in the following discussion the major deterioration – as they think – of this bill against the old legal situation. I say that there is no deterioration in the old law in any area, except that in the future the new move to Austria will only be possible to a very, very small extent. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 10,000!]] Otherwise, there are only improvements compared to the current legal situation, and if there are deteriorations, they serve exclusively to eliminate the abuse that has occurred in one area or another, or to introduce more severe penalties in the case of towing, shaming and other abuses. I therefore believe that this law, and I should also like to say this clearly, Mrs Partik-Pablé, is not decoupled from the important legislation introduced by former Federal Minister Lösnak, but that these texts are logically based on the experience of the laws introduced under Minister Lösnak at the beginning of the nineties due to the immigration pressure in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits has shown the example of an Afghan family. I am one of those who is aware of the fact that there are some decisions that are rethinkable that some of these have happened in the field of asylum policy. I also admit that mistakes have occurred in one area or another and are likely to occur in the future. My task, our common task, is to eliminate and clean up these mistakes as soon as they appear. But I would warn you to believe that the mistakes are only done on the state side and that there is only a state abuse. On the contrary: I would like to give you enough examples to show that there is a conscious abuse of asylum in particular. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Young.]] I could give you enough examples of where people were granted political asylum, where there were a lot of interventions, but then I found out that these members are from international criminal organizations, drug-rings and similar. This is not an individual case, but there are many cases. In a recent case, it was an African drug dealer who sought political asylum among five different identities in Austria. We only got into it because this drug dealer was killed, a murder attack on him. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Mr. Federal Minister! Who intervenes...?]] – It is not a political intervention to tell you the same thing; so that I can scatter these fears. This means that we have to deal with the matter with our attention. I ask you to understand mistakes on the one hand and try to eliminate them together, but also to bear in mind that asylum applications in particular are often misused to achieve migration for economic reasons, which I personally understand: There are very, very many people who want to go to Austria – but we cannot give this opportunity to all people, but only those who are really persecuted for political, religious or ethnic reasons. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to change the rules of asylum on the border. No question – that's something you could better handle. Only: I don't know a common alternative. I'm trying to justify that. First: We have launched a clear procedure for asylum at the airport, one that is undisputed, which has been jointly regulated by charitative organisations, non-governmental organisations, UNHCR. There has so far been no regulation at the national border. Those who have come to the national border have, in general, been rejected because of the current legal situation. That is why I do not fear that the problem of towing will increase because no one at the national border has so far been able to apply for asylum. We are now dealing with this by means of a two-stage procedure, in accordance with the rule of law. I believe that this is a first important step. Based on the experience we collect, modifications can be made in one direction or another. But what is not going on – I say quite clearly – is that anyone who comes to the border automatically has the right to enter our country and can wait for us to complete his asylum application. If we did, we would not have 7,000 or 8,000 asylum applications, as was the case last year, but hundreds of thousands of asylum applications – and would be hopelessly overwhelmed. These are not figures that I say in the blitz blue, but legitimate figures, considering that since 1989, since the open borders to the East of Europe, more than 10 million people have migrated from the East of Europe to the West of Europe. This population pressure, this migration pressure will not decrease in the next few years, but, on the contrary, it will continue to increase. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you together. I believe that with this law we are going the way of the middle, that this law is correct and good, but – and that is clear – cannot regulate everything. Mrs Stoisits criticises that this law does not regulate the passive right of election for foreigners wishing to become works councils. I take note of this, but I must say: It cannot be the task of the Minister of the Interior to amend the Constitutional Act in this act. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: But we need to discuss all this under one!]] I believe that it would be too much to ask for a change in a whole set of rules within the shortest term. Of course, I believe that steps must be taken. For example, I consider that a change in the citizenship law is urgently needed – I would like to introduce the revision in this year, especially because there is a very different saying practice between the individual states and there should be a harmonisation in this area. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Großruck]] But I would also like to say: Let us not say that we have a very restrictive citizenship law. On the contrary: In 1996, some 16,000 people were granted Austrian citizenship. Since we are talking about restrictive interpretation, I believe that it is unjust. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that these regulations will help to ensure that, first, the right of asylum in Austria will be implemented in terms of humane and rule of law, second, that those foreigners who already live in Austria will be integrated, thirdly, that new immigration to our country will only be possible in the very modest and low degree in the future. – In this sense, I would ask you to agree to the present legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7828	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7850	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Please allow me to make the following additional request before my actual comments: Additional request by Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades to the Government template 693 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report 757 of the Supplements (Dublin Convention) According to § 76 para. 3 GMOs shall decide: "In accordance with Art. Paragraph 49 2 B-VG, the authentic Danish, English, French, Gaelic, Greek, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish texts of this State Treaty, together with the Protocols, are made known by the fact that they are required to consult the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs." Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard very different positions in the debate on this package of foreign rights. On the one hand, I should like to recall the statements made by Mrs Partik-Pablé, who said that 62 per cent of the population are against more foreigners, and on the other hand, the statements of Mr Kier and Mr Stoisits, who want a very open immigration policy, and may tell you from this point of view – I hope you will forgive me for this, which may be moralizing, but I say it deliberately and nevertheless –: I am probably the only Member in this House who came to Austria as a refugee – after the Hungarian uprising in 1956. I have experienced for myself how a person in a foreign country can deal with a person in that country. I'm just bringing an example – one. I still have my glasses at home, which I had as a child, and they were glued at a distance of 5 millimeters, because I was beaten every day at the after-house, since I was a "sinking gypsy." [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: You did it!]] – This is a form of how children can deal with foreigners. I think that it is one of our essential obligations here in this House – it is politically or party-politically legitimate – not to seek and find the solution of extreme positions, but to contribute to the reconnaissance and calming with a debate here. This is exactly the content that should and should be pursued by us. [[Abg. Mr Partik-Pablé: Mr Colleague! If you have such a high migration...!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! You said, Mr Schlögl, the Federal Minister, continues the policy of his two predecessors, namely the Federal Ministers of Lösnak and One, I can therefore only say to you: [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not both! Don't erase, one!]] I think this is good, because a policy of continuity is an essential contribution to the fact that people can adapt to the content and know where it is going. That is why we can only express our thanks for the policy that is being made here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has also been noted in the debate that especially on the part of the liberals who make themselves the lawyer of the "little man" is very often called for an increase in the number of seasonal workers. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, this approach is not a very human thing. Because what is it about? – It is about bringing low-cost workers back to Austria at certain times and then, if you don't need them anymore, wanting to compliment them again, according to the motto: You've done your guilt, you can go! I can tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals: We will in no way give our consent to such dealings with people that we treat them as a purely performance factor. That is why we say: Seasonal workers, yes, but we do all these things with the people who are already in Austria, because we still have possible resources. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Minister has outlined principles and allows me very briefly to extend them. We have met an essential principle with this legislative package, namely: Entry and residence are largely linked to the right to access the labour market. We have established the principle of restrictive restrictions on the admission of seasonal workers, as I said earlier, and the priority given to the use of labour from the domestic labour force potential – a very positive principle. We have secured the guarantee of residence for the second generation who grew up in Austria and, a very essential principle, we have provided for a more effective control and higher penalties for the tow industry. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you: Let us keep this debate calmly controversial, let us lead it hard, but let us lead it into the responsibility we have towards the people who live in this country. I would ask you to agree to this package of laws.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7938	Mr Schwemlein has tabled an additional request by Mr Leikam and Mr Kiss, who are sufficiently supported and included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7959	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the draft law on asylum, MEPs, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Jung and Mr Colleagues, tabled an amendment which, in particular, deals with the removal of obstacles in this proposal for a law, which is against family immigration and which is also opposed to further reducing Austria's national sovereignty. I'll give him the following reasons. Two areas were crucial for the amendment of the Asylum Act. One is the Dublin agreement which we have already mentioned today, in which we are forced into, and the second, the unbearable situation in the practice of asylum legislation. However, for a slightly different reason than my colleagues from the Greens, I consider them unbearable. The Dublin Agreement is one of those many agreements that have been imposed on us by the "without If and But" of the EU and which brings us further restrictions on our national sovereignty rights. It is even in the front page of this agreement: The additional burden on the asylum authorities is expected; a greater number of withdrawal requests are expected due to the geopolitical situation of Austria. It speaks of an asylum-appropriate tourism and more like it. This means that there is a great deal of stress on Austria, but as a Member of Parliament, we only remain the possibility of consent, because thanks to the attitude of our government, we have entered this EU without if and but. The second reason was the intolerable situation, which led above all to the countless proceedings at the Administrative Court. Now this new asylum law should be improved, but it has been substantially watered down by – I would like to call it so – extra-parliamentary pressure. The charitative organizations, UNHCR and so on, have been given too broad a right of participation, so that the objective we have seen in it can no longer be achieved. On the NGOs proposals, Minister Schlögl himself said: If I met these demands of UNHCR and SOS fellow human, the number of asylum seekers would just explode. Then all would come to Austria for political reasons only. – That's exactly what hits the nail right now. I give you just a few examples of the increases in asylum rates from 1994 to 1995: from the former Yugoslav Federation 120 percent, Bosnia 41 percent, Liberia 135 percent and so on. Why is the Andrang so big for Austria? – The recognition rate in Austria amounted to 8.2 percent in 1976, 13 percent in the previous year. This is almost three times higher than in other EU countries. It's been talking around. With us, asylum is almost abandoned. We cannot go along with it in this form. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hlavac.]] No, Mrs Colleague, we certainly do not do that anymore! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Mrs Stoisits said that we should be encouraged by the stranger. – I agree with you in parts, but there are very worrying parts in which I hope that the Austrians will not be stimulated, and which are also the reason why the Austrians take a critical position on this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have the statistics of the Ministry of the Interior here: extortional kidnapping 62 percent, armed commercial gang theft 57 percent, predatory theft 45 percent, extortion 39 percent and so on. In this regard, we certainly do not want to be stimulated by the stranger, Mrs Stoisits. Now on some points of this law: It makes it possible for the family estate. On average, this probably means a triple, if not more, of the number of additional entry into the country. The law contains a number of cannibal provisions, which allow us to continue to exert political pressure on officials. A particularly important point: Only particularly serious crimes should be the reason for the exclusion. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Do you want – Mr Kiss, where is your sense of justice and order? – that the Albanians, who have fled prison in Albania as a result of the unrest, may seek political asylum in Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss]] Is that the intention and intention behind this law? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] The law allows the "situation" of asylum. It allows the application in a form abroad, which would allow Mr Mobutu to apply for asylum in Austria so that he can possibly pursue his assets. – No, that’s what we certainly don’t want! It continues to be impunity to go into shriek. The leaflets are just too hardy and would be translated into all the necessary languages. Have you ever considered what that means in practice? – Last year alone was translated into 51 different languages. It is not possible to get all the interpreters in Austria for this, and the costs will rise to the immense. 3.5 million schillings were used only for translations to pushers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] - Yes, Mrs. Colleague, that's not little. The Minister of the Interior himself has said that 51 languages are at the brink of performance, and the composition of the asylum Senate and many other areas. The government has also said on the overall costs that only 30 planning posts – other posts that should have been saved – need to be reworked. There are clear side costs, in addition to an actual effort of 88 million schilling, additional follow-up costs of a total of about a quarter of a billion schillings – you think the Austrians are doing this at the same time as the savings package number 3 you negotiated yesterday! That's too much, we won't agree here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then Caritas Director Landau – he was quoted today – dares to join the public and say that the boat is full because our second and third televisions are inside. Ladies and gentlemen! This isn't about second and third televisions! Look into the "Kurier" last weekend! This concerns a family with four children living under the minimum of existence. This is also a situation in Austria. You are addressing the Afghan families, Mrs. Stoisits! We're talking about the Austrians! Ladies and gentlemen! In this boat, the Austrians and the Austrians are sitting the same way, which we take not only the possibility of an unladen childhood – look at the article, I recommend you to read what the little Bub said – but we also take on them the training opportunities of the future, including by filling the schools with foreigners of several languages, where they do not even learn German properly and do not have the opportunity to get reasonable training. You, ladies and gentlemen, from the coalition of so-called and self-appointed good men, have forgotten to keep in mind the love of the Austrians for their neighbor. And this is our main concern. This law gives a clear example of your attitude in this direction. . We liberals will certainly not give our consent to this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8096	Mr Jung has tabled an amendment to his key points at the beginning of his speech. The amendment is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiation. As a result of its scope, I cause the reproduction and distribution within the meaning of § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8312	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. 8 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8333	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Given that I have listened to my previous speaker, I must say that one gets the impression that he has not read the law. Of course, someone who goes into a shone is punishable – in Austria and in most foreign countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] Second point: Of course, someone who has been sentenced in a foreign state for a criminal act was in a prison and fled from that prison is not aylene right here. And so many other things, which Mr Jung said, are simply wrong. I mean, if one has just said something here, Mr Jung, it is not yet true and not true. [[Abg. Boy: What? What? Please what? What?]] – You have said so many wrong things that it is hard to hair. I just mentioned two examples. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have full understanding of Bishop Weber for pointing out his concerns. In the last few weeks and months, I have had discussions with many church bodies and I have found a great deal of understanding of the solution and the regulation we have now found and will decide today. So it is not true that the church authorities generally reject this solution. On the contrary! I ask the Greens: Will you agree with the Foreign Employment Act, which we are now innovation, to which I have received only positive reactions from the church authorities, no negative? . It should agree with this amendment of the Foreign Employment Act with great enthusiasm. I fear, however, that you will not accept the council of the bishops and the churches and will not follow him. I regret that we are constantly trying to argue with aspects of the hair. You just can't do that. Ladies and gentlemen! We solve essential problems with the Foreign Employment Act, with the Xenophobia Act and with the changes in the right of asylum. We create more order, as Mr Kiss has already said, and above all we create an agreement between the right of foreigners, the right of residence and the right of establishment with labour law and employment law. Ladies and gentlemen! That's very important. I admit that many foreigners who today have a right of residence in Austria, who are rightly residing in Austria, have difficulties. For this reason, the priority catalogue for the granting of employment permits will be re-adapted to the Foreign Law. Of course, the Austrians first have a right to work. Of course, refugees have a right to work in Austria, but then those foreigners who have acquired an unemployment insurance claim here already come. These should also be given a job primarily. And then the young people who have finished school here who have completed a full school year in Austria, namely the last school year of compulsory schooling. We are also in line with the concerns of the people who have just come to Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are still offering a change in the Foreign Employment Act, and I would like to stress this in particular: The Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs is given a larger scope of decision when it comes to adopting regulations which exclude or specifically favour certain groups of persons from granting an employment permit. We believe that we should be flexible and take account of the requirements which arise precisely from personal circumstances, but also from the general economic and labour market situation. So we are deliberately expanding the scope of the Minister's decision-making, and I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to adopt this decision-making space accordingly, as we foresee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is also a clear system which we provide for Turkish citizens who are to obtain employment permits here. There will be a clear regime for foreign emergency workers. There is already a clear system for foreigners who are longer unemployed, who could become emergency workers – I say: could become aware. For these persons with effect 1. In January 2000, a new provision was introduced in the Unemployment Insurance Act, according to which these foreigners, foreigners under certain conditions – I say consciously: certain conditions must be met – became eligible for emergency aid. I would like to point out clearly that a large proportion of foreigners can already benefit from emergency aid under certain conditions. [[Abg. Oils: To a small part!]] – It is not true that foreigners have in principle been excluded from emergency aid. In the Committee, where the Greens, the Liberals and the Liberals were unfortunately not represented, I asked the Federal Minister that in these two years, 1998 and 1999, a detailed examination should be made in advance of the way in which the new provisions could have an impact on Austrian citizens. I do not want to rule out the possibility that Austrian citizens could be affected by this new regulation. However, this should now be closely monitored, and for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, because of this, the ÖVP has taken action to ensure that entry into force does not take place immediately, but rather with 1. January 2000 so that we can carefully examine and consider the effects. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller]] I hope that you, too, will give your assent to this regulation. At the end of my debate, I say clearly: The Austrian labour market is unable to take on and carry out an unlimited immigration of foreigners. We cannot assure every foreigner, every foreigner who wants to go to Austria, a job. But those who have the right to live in Austria within the meaning of the new right of residence and establishment should also be employed under certain conditions which are clearly defined. There must be no distinction between the right of residence, the right of establishment, the right of employment and the labour market, but we need a wide-ranging partnership so that we can solve the problems in the Austrian labour market properly in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8416	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8441	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Kier has already outlined the positions of the Liberal Forum on the draft legislation to be discussed. I would particularly like to point out that it is clear to us that Austria will not come out without immigration, that Austria will not be able to do so without foreign employment, and that, from the point of view of the Liberals, there must also be an integration before immigration, that this immigration can only be an orderly immigration. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also not hidden the fact that what is to be decided today will bring certain improvements. Only, ladies and gentlemen, what is being presented is what will be re-regulated and decided, from our point of view, a bad compromise. The Federal Minister confirms this position. This is not the high standard that we expect from the legislator and which we demand, especially in such an important matter, in such a sensitive matter as foreign law and asylum law, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kiss: You have become Paul from Saul!]] That is why, Mr Kiss, we have also tabled amendments to this effect. Mr Kiss! I would like us to be able to discuss our amendments with you, but you regrettably refuse this discussion. Mr Kiss! I'll be right back to your statements. You said that this regulation was a good way for the government groups to show the Austrian People's Party's Handwriting. . But I say to you that you are on the way to wood with this regulation and that this rule is not a leaf of fame for the Austrian People's Party! We'll see, we've experienced that before. The 1992 regulation was also praised by the government parties on the green clover, and then appropriate corrections had to be made and the law repaired. I'll tell you in advance: This law will also have to be repaired! The Federal Minister himself is also not very convinced that this is really a good solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Mr Kiss! Please tell your colleagues who are going to talk to me that they should address the arguments of our Liberals, that they should address our amendments which we have tabled here – which are also imposed on everyone so that they can read them – so that, in the sense of parliamentaryism, there is also an interesting and further discussion. Mr Leikam was sorry that the opposition parties were not present at the last committee meeting. I should also like to remind you, as Mr Khol said, that he would like to discuss and discuss with us, for example with Mr Kier, the issues of the right of foreigners or the right of asylum. Ladies and gentlemen! What is being said is that your alleged mourning for the absence of the opposition parties in the committee is nothing but a pharysicism to be surpassed! The requests made by the opposition parties in the past, no matter what committee, Mr Kiss and Mr Leikam, have always been rejected, but not because there were bad requests – very often these were then suddenly on the table and were taken over by the government parties – but only because – this in a completely false understanding of parliamentaryism – because they came from the opposition. And this is how you deal with the amendments proposed by the civil organizations of NGOs! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! So don't cry crocodile tears here! However, it must be possible to debate the various positions within the framework of this plenary debate. Mr Kiss, I would like to ask you again: If you really take parliamentarianism seriously, then give an opinion on our amendments! Mr Schwemlein could have responded to the arguments of the opposition parties. I regret he didn't do that. But I would like to refer very briefly to a statement from him that really hurt me. Mr Schwemlein has brought an example from his life and personal experience. He has found that refugee children are beaten on the school road in Austria and therefore he had a broken glasses several times. Mr Schwamlein! You are a teacher, you are a teacher, you should actually know that children are walking around on the school path, that children are getting up sometime on the school path, and that there is also some damage. Obviously, Mr Schwemmlein has forgotten this. He may already have lost the relation to the school. Perhaps colleague Schwemlein was also a child with a special urge to move and sometimes also more excited. I mean, it's a cut-off... – He brought it that way. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Posch.]] [[Abg. Kiermaier: You forgot something!]] Read it! Please read it in the Stenographic Protocol! I think it is a prelude that he places a ranch on the school path in which he was involved as an alien hostility. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not correspond to the facts, and I would like to maintain this clearly and clearly here. [[Abg. Kiermaier: He said they called him a "sinking gypsy!" You didn't say that, you forgot!]] That too can happen. But, first of all, he brought the rabies and their broken glasses, and I believe that this is not an argument and does not fit into this debate. It is not supposed to represent our country as if on the way to school, when children are up and foreign children are involved, it would automatically rule against foreigners. He's not supposed to put a normal ranch as an xenophobic. That is, as I say, a point of order, and therefore I would like to reject it with all my determination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Mr Posch! You're also a teacher or a professor, you know how it goes on the way to school! [[Abg. May. Posch: He will know what he has experienced!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you very much for I have nothing against it when personal experiences are presented here. But from these personal experiences, then, to close a general hostility to foreign children on the way to school, I think it is an advantage! [[Abg. May. Posch: If he has personally experienced that it was so, then he will be able to say it, will he?]] I myself come from a community that houses the famous refugee camp of Traiskirchen. And I can tell you quite honestly: Such examples really do not correspond to reality. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw your attention to three points in the course of this debate on our amendments. The first point is the need for a clearer definition of the conditions for a residence permit. Experience with the previous legislation has shown that there has been great legal uncertainty and that the provisions have led to a very inhumane case law. We know a variety of modestys that are completely incomprehensible from our point of view. Under this scheme, there are also very much-needed officials, who are good will, but who cannot really do something with such regulations. In addition, there is a flood of complaints at the Administrative Court. We therefore believe that it would make sense to define the existing unclear rules more clearly. We have therefore tabled a corresponding amendment calling for a residence permit to be given proof of accommodation in accordance with the health, health and construction regulations. In our opinion, that would be enough – but not the current regulation with local or local accommodation. The second claim concerns the determination of sufficient own resources. It should be clarified more clearly than before, what own resources are. In the light of a committee statement already taken in April 1995, it should be noted that these funds are sufficient if a collectively paid employment is carried out or if there is a statutory transfer service intended to guarantee the existence. That, ladies and gentlemen, would have made sense. It would have been necessary to include this committee in the law. The second point concerns a question of which I also believe it is necessary to clarify it, namely: How do we deal with prostitutes illegally in the country, with women who have come to Austria in the course of trafficking in human beings? We Liberals believe that these women should not be identified under certain conditions, but that they should be given a temporary residence permit, on the one hand, with a view to perhaps contributing to the fight against organised crime, to the investigation of criminal offences, and on the other hand, to the possibility that these women should be given the opportunity to resolve their illegitimate situation properly and to start a new life. The third and last point I would like to make is related to asylum law, namely: When can reception security be adopted in a third country? – I am well aware of the third country clause, and I am also familiar with the terms of the referendum, but I believe that it would make sense and would be necessary to define more clearly the conditions and conditions under which Austria recognises a country within the meaning of the third country clause. I think that the security against persecution can then be assumed if the country concerned is willing to conclude a written agreement with Austria, which provides for a fair asylum procedure in the specific individual case and guarantees compliance with the Refoulement Protection. I also think that if someone cannot be postponed or declared within a certain period of time, he should also have the right and the opportunity to obtain an asylum procedure in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! These were the three points I wanted to point out to you in particular. I can invite the ladies and gentlemen of the Government parties to participate in the debate in the sense of a lively parliamentaryism. [[The speaker pointed to empty bank lines at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – But there is almost no one there, obviously interested You don't really like this topic. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as liberals are concerned, it is a provision which does not require Parliament to be informed of the implementation of the laws to be adopted today by the Minister for the Interior. I would therefore like to make a motion for a resolution on the submission of a report on the implementation of the Foreign Law and the Asylum Act. In the past, we have gained experience in the execution process, and it has been shown that it is necessary to discuss on a broad political basis also and to have an up-to-date level of information in Parliament so that legal adjustments can be made quickly. And as the first stage of these necessary legal adjustments, which the Federal Minister has also mentioned, Parliament must now also be informed accordingly. Our request is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this is necessary, and therefore I do not understand your statements in committee, ladies and gentlemen and Mr Federal Minister. It was a suggestion from the Austrian People's Party in the Committee, and that is why the Austrian People's Party can now vote in favour of our motion for a resolution. In any case, I have no understanding of this when the Federal Minister said: Well, we do not want to present a report to Parliament, because – I quote literally – "every discussion in Parliament brings only anger". Federal Minister! I believe that it would be very useful and in the interest of this very sensitive matter to discuss this issue in the National Council. In any event, I do not want to assume that this statement is an indication of the German Government's disturbed relationship with Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the last point. Today we will decide on a variety of government proposals and novels. Among other things, it concerns the Convention on the provisions of the competent State for the examination of an application for asylum lodged by a Member State of the European Community, in short: Dublin Agreement. We will vote in favour of this agreement and this request by the Liberal Forum. We believe that such an agreement, which regulates the harmonisation of the right of asylum at European level, is necessary, so that an addition to the Schengen Agreement is also made and that this will lead to a strengthening of the third pillar of Maastricht. We also have our concerns, however, because it has been shown that the trend at European level is actually to decide ever more restrictive third country clauses, that rapid procedures for "evidently unfounded" asylum applications will be decided and determined and that a very narrow interpretation of the refugee definition will occur. We Liberals therefore want the National Council to make clear its views on how it sees the Dublin agreement. The Liberal Forum's motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] In our view, ladies and gentlemen, this would be the least we need to demand. These would be the minimum standards we expect from a single asylum right at European level, and that would also be those conditions under which Austria can continue its long-term tradition as an asylum country. Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore ask you to give your consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8629	Mr Moser has tabled two motions for resolutions, both of which have been properly put in place and which are included in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mrs Reitsamer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8654	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been following this debate for two and a half hours. One is what is decided today, much too little, the other is too much. Mr Jung has at all gone on to present the situation as if we had now opened the borders and the government parties stood behind it and hunted everything that is unfortunately still outside. – I cannot follow this argument, but it does not have to be; it probably even speaks for me. This issue has always been a matter of concern to the Social Democrats. When we brought foreign citizens into the country, we were aware that we also had to give them more work, housing, training opportunities for their children and others. A long-standing party-political hack and a counter-examination of foreigners already in the country and newly moving countries are finally ending today; the situation is being improved. Since 1995, we have had a very restrictive re-entry policy, and our aim is to integrate it in particular. Today's legislative package brings about a massive integration, especially in terms of labour market integration. A major improvement is also made by increased consideration of the social component. Example: Family allowances. If we continue to pursue this restrictive new immigration policy, it will be possible, without taxing the Austrian labour market for a fee, to integrate these legally resident foreign citizens in Austria within five years. The recent fixing of the unsurpassable share of foreigners in the Austrian labour force potential of 9 percent is also to be welcomed. I would also like to briefly address the request made by the honourable Member, Mr President, for a reduction of this proportion to 6 per cent. Such a measure meant that we would legally push people in the country – most of them have a job – into unemployment. We would also have to pay them unemployment support for their well-acquired claims – and this would apply to jobs that Austrians did not want to accept. We brought her as a guest to the country, they came, they did these jobs for us, but all this is now in question. And this is justified by a competition for displacement, which is massively criticized. But precisely by such a measure one would promote this displacement competition. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to address another question which has played a role in the discussions in the committees, namely the question of Au pairs. It was a request from Federal Minister Bartenstein to remove au pair of forces from the Foreign Employment Act. Ladies and gentlemen! If we consider that 25 hours a week would be required to work for a pocket money, we would have cheap workers without any legal protection in our country. In return, in Vienna alone, the 2 000 budget allocations have been reported as job-seekers; I am not yet addressing the health and social professions at all. Austria is in the Au pair agreement... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's quite different!]] I know what that is, I was au pair girl myself. You do not need to inform me, Mr Ofner, thank you very much. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Tell from your experience, tell me how it was!]] Let me talk! If you're missing anything, we can talk about it. Austria is this au pair agreement – fortunately! – not joined because we know from Germany exactly what consequences this would mean: an arbitrary termination of the employment relationship, very often a push into illegality; very many of these girls then landed in the red light environment. - We don't need to wish for that. If I let the deliberations take place, I must say: This was not the case either with our coalition partner or, above all, with the social partners, a majority. I would also like to mention that a protocol note has been requested. Mrs Hostasch was unjustly attacked, because a protocol note was only mentioned in the field of the Foreign Law, but never in the Foreign Employment Act. With regard to the modification of the conditions for access to emergency aid, account shall be taken of both the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and the conformity with the Residence Confirmation Act. The changed conditions of access – they are listed in punctual terms: "or" and not "and" – have been massively criticized, but an illegality of Europe cannot be established. All in all, it is a significant legal rule that benefits the Austrians, who are legally resident here and with whom we can continue to fulfil our humanitarian obligations.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8709	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8731	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka spoke today about how excellent the committee work has been because the opposition was not present. – This statement is remarkable, because at least under this item on the agenda we have to negotiate items which, in my view, have relatively little to do with each other. Mr Kier will not be angry if I say that his request concerning the possibility of "part-time unemployment" has nothing to do with the subject which we are now dealing with, as has the request made by Mrs Haller. Even if you are, Mr Kier, someone who likes to think in all possible contexts: The links you create between this subject and the integration package must be explained to me first. This has nothing to do with each other – even under this item on the agenda! This is just a measure which is intended to prevent us from seriously discussing these points. The question is: What are we going to do with this discussion about the integration package? . I listened to some of the speakers, and I sometimes felt as if there were going to be a discussion between them, as if some Members wanted to earn their diploma in mirror fighting. As an object of the attack, the unlimited immigration of foreigners, whom they do not want, is always pitied and lamented. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! No one has said that, no one has demanded an unlimited move. Of course, we also agree with the principle that integration must go before new immigration and that new immigration must take place under regulated conditions. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, must already be asked whether what you are trying to do with the integration package actually takes account of this principle. In my view, this is only a very conditional case. As far as the Foreign Employment Act is concerned, it is the case that certain groups of foreign workers – namely those under the Association Agreement – are at last somewhat equated. However, their equality ceases immediately when it comes to withdrawing them from the quota. Since the same persons are not excluded from the quota, they are not equal. Ladies and gentlemen! This has nothing to do with equality, if one continues to let it into the quota! Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! Mrs. Minister! In this respect, and probably also in terms of what the EU calls for, you have to have something different in mind. Next point: free access to the labour market. They stress that the best possible equality should be achieved for those foreigners who have been living here for a long time in our country. – I would like to list the different groups of those who work here on the labour market: the groups with employment permits, the groups with work permits – completely different legal situations – the groups with a license of exemption, then the equal under the Association Agreement, then the EU citizens who are more "equivalent", and finally the Austrians, who seem to be the "sameest" of all. [[Abg. May. Main: The EEA has forgotten!]] Mrs. Minister! I notice – They will also receive a request from us in this regard – for example, that the labour market service operates job placements by making job tenders in which German is required by applicants as a parent language. As you know, Mrs Minister, this also excludes many Austrian citizens. There are also job registrations of the AMS, which says: natives. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, who will be excluded from the government? – For example, all those whose parents had to emigrate in the 1940s and who were therefore born abroad. These children are not born Austrians, because they were born abroad. Has this thoughtlessness, this impertinence actually come to your mind? Are you aware that, with your policy of so-called integration, you are driving this discriminatory discrimination so far that it also discriminates against groups of Austrian citizens, where we – the Minister has already done so – are proud that we are also making foreigners Austrian citizens? Are you aware that you are discriminating these groups, but also other groups of Austrians, who differ only from the other Austrians, that they were not born in that country, for example, because they were born in emigration, also by your practical policy, and not only by what is in the law? – This discrimination is already going that far, ladies and gentlemen. They should once lead to a feeling of what the AMS – certainly not only on its own initiative, although I also do not want to reject it completely – will pass on to discrimination at the job tender, in which job placement is carried out, namely the pressure that the company – by the companies, by the employers – brings to the AMS. You, ladies and gentlemen, probably just pull your shoulders and say: The main thing is, a job's being transferred, essentially, someone's coming in. Are you aware of what policy you are doing with it? I ask you whether you are aware of the consequences of this very diverse discrimination, of these very different classes on the labour market that you have created. – I can give you an answer: With this absolute competition among the foreign employees, which is also partly directed at domestics, you create a system that is wonderful for wage pressure, just too well suited, and thus produce exactly what you always warn about. Mrs Reitsamer! What you have called for with regard to au pair girls, au pair persons, to formulate it without sex, namely legal certainty also for those au pairs who work here in Austria, would certainly be feasible at any time. This is also what the big organizations that convey au pairs are doing. This equality, this safeguarding of certain rights, we also demand for foreign workers as a whole, because only this guarantee, this equality is the guarantee that in the labour market there are indeed some proper conditions which do not create cheap wage competition and wage pressure between nationals and foreigners. The current system – and we have not yet talked about those who have to work underground – is the result. Mr Koppler! You know exactly what I am talking about, because in a company like that in which you work, the effects of this mutual wage pressure and the competition for employment between countries and foreigners are being faced in a wide variety of ways. This is so far that foreigners at the workplace have to work even more hard to keep their jobs. And that also means that they must so to speak "good behaviour" that they must not claim certain rights. That's what I'm at the next point. The attitude of the Austrian trade unions, especially on the question of passive voting rights for foreign workers in works council elections and workers' chamber elections, I think is quite impertinent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I therefore consider them to be impertinent, because for years – Mr Hums knows exactly that – decisions have been made in the ÖGB and also in many Chambers of Workers, which clearly state: [[Call to the liberals: But not in all!]] We want a passive right to vote for foreign colleagues as well. At the same time, however, the government says: We are waiting for a positive signal from ÖGB and AK. – But if you speak with ÖGB or AK representatives, it says: It is not that simple; there is such a decision, but we cannot do it anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, especially in the trade union field! With this policy, Austria is the final European light, a shame in terms of the integration of foreign workers, on its own. Of course, and in every European country – not only in EU countries – it is common for an Austrian who works there to become a works council. I took part years ago in an event in which an Austrian works council working in Germany wondered that what is quite clear and self-evident for him in Germany is still not the case in Austria. That's a shame! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that you are calling on the government to examine this question of passive voting right, with a resolution which you have made in the absence of the applicants in the committee, means that you are scratching from behind, but only not on the problem of trying to tackle the real issue. You want to delay this question until the year 2000 as well as the issue of emergency aid, where the European Court of Human Rights requires us to deal with this issue, and you do so with the reason that Austrians may also be affected by this scheme. Ladies and gentlemen! They are exploring the question of the fact that tens of thousands of foreigners are now affected by this attitude of Austria, by this illegality in relation to international treaties. They say: They're gonna have to wait a couple more years. Through this very contracted scheme – that is the real problem – you are trying to exclude foreigners, but this does not really have a discriminatory effect on the outside. So they have hidden discrimination. However, through this scheme, you will have to make it possible for countries too to be negatively affected. And now you are faced with the problem of how to do so, in such a way as to ensure that there is no damage to nationals as far as possible, but not to all foreigners under certain other assumptions to their right. I think that this policy of surrendering, softing, refusing rights is simply discriminatory, despicable to human rights, ladies and gentlemen. You should be very slow about even drawing consequences in this direction! To the address of the ÖVP only one point: A party that is calling for marriage and family to be integrated into the Constitution, which regrets that the family is so little respect in our legal system, should take its nose, Mr Kiss, and ask whether it is right or cheap to exclude certain groups of families – because it is foreign families – from this high legal principle which you want to include in the Constitution. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kiss.]] Refuse the right to family integration You continue, Mr Kiss, and with you your entire "Christian" Austrian People's Party. Although they are talking about wanting to anchor marriage and family in the Constitution, they do not do anything – no fingernail size! – in order to actually allow family integration, which is necessary and which you unlawfully deny human rights, to take place. You should be ashamed, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8804	The Federal Minister has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8825	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that each of you has already experienced some sort of fate in which you have been confronted with not very well explained discrepancies between the laws of residence, the foreign employment law and the application of these laws. I am convinced that this package of integration, as we have said, will succeed in completely excluding such cases as they have been mentioned in the future, but at least, as I hope, to reduce them to very few individual cases. Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, I believe that in a society which is understood as a human being, as a solidarity, on the other hand, it would not be permissible to create an unlimited legal situation, according to which everyone who is looking for a stay in our country and wants employment is warmly welcome. It would also be unacceptable to guarantee that we will always be able to do so under the conditions which apply to us and to all those who live with us in this society in the social state of Austria. I therefore consider it right – including to ensure cohesion in society – to achieve a certain order by means of a legal framework and to maintain it in the future. Of course, the labour market situation must also be taken very seriously into account. We live – unfortunately! – in a situation where we cannot offer to all those seeking employment and who are willing to work abroad and abroad the job and employment opportunities we would like to have. Although Austria has a better labour market situation compared to other countries, I believe that unemployment in our country is still too high for foreigners as well as for foreigners, as well as for foreigners, from my point of view and, as I believe, from your point of view. We must therefore do everything we can to reduce this unemployment. We must also ensure, however, that there is not exactly what has already been said by Mr Oellinger by means of an uncontrolled new move, that there is a new wage pressure, that a new pressure on the labour market is created, and that we are no longer able to comply with our social and labour standards at the level that we have jointly fought and created. I therefore regard this package of laws as an important, good and forward-looking basis for order on the one hand on the labour market, and on the other hand order also in relations within our society, and on the other hand legal certainty for all those who stay with us, as well as legal certainty for those who intend to find entry into our society in the future, and for those who can be guided by it under the term "family succession", under which framework conditions this is possible in perspective. I think it is very important to see that not only is the emphasis on this package of laws, which can also be implemented, that we see integration as a central political objective, but that we have also created or will create appropriate framework conditions when you decide on these laws. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since we did not have the opportunity in committee to discuss in detail those requests which were also the subject of the deliberations and the decision-making process with the opposition parties, I would like to address these requests here in plenary with some arguments. Mrs Reitsamer referred to the request 196/A of the Liberals for the reduction of the maximum number of the Federal Republic of Germany to 6 per cent. Allow me to add some further arguments, why I believe that this implementation would not be acceptable to the discussion. This would mean that the extension of legal employment conditions would not be ensured by more than 76 000 foreign workers and, last but not least, would have to be taken into account in existing employment conditions. It would mean that we could not allow labour market registration for integrated second generation young foreigners after graduation in Austria. It would mean that in the public and general economic interest urgently necessary key forces – highly specialized key forces, managers – would not be authorised even if they could not be made available from the existing labour force potential. The reduction of the Federal maximum to 6 per cent without accompanying measures would also be such a sharp reduction in the foreign labour force potential that additional new recruitment would necessarily be necessary in the medium term, because in some areas – you know the industries – there is an indispensable cooperation between domestic and foreign workers. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that these arguments have convinced you that this request should not be accepted; it has also been discussed accordingly in committee. I also agree to refer to the resolution 218/A of the Liberal Forum, which deals with the creation of part-time unemployment benefit. We have already dealt with or are engaged in negotiations on this issue in the law in force in the unemployment insurance law. The purpose of the provisions is to regulate the calculation of income from occasional work in addition to unemployment benefit or emergency aid in the form of an accounting model. What is missing is a legal regime for dealing with income from continuous, non-remunerated part-time employment. We are in the process of developing a basis for discussion on these different issues, in order to bring them to Parliamentary treatment as well. It is in this context, however, that I would like to put it in the double meaning here in the room, that on the one hand, we know that this is a concern, but on the other hand, a number of problems and questions have to be solved and, on the other hand, questions such as: How would part-time unemployment benefit be seen in terms of health insurance and pension insurance? What about the eternal status of unemployment insurance as a result of part-time employment? How is the following unemployment benefit as a result of unemployment benefit in the case of part-time employment as a result of new expectations? It also raises the question of the availability of part-time employment within the services offered by the labour market service, and last but not least, it is a central question of how it is at all with the availability of establishments, how a part-time unemployment benefit can be used or applied. I would like to point out that we are dealing with this issue, but we need to clarify a large number of very basic questions in advance, because the consequences must also be taken into account. In addition, the Committee dealt with Amendment 305/A by the Liberals on the creation of an eternal status in unemployment insurance. I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that under the structural adjustment laws, we have decided very consciously on changes in the provision of benefits under the law of unemployment insurance by strengthening the concept of insurance and have also tried to regulate a time-limit between the remuneration of contributions and the use of benefits. I believe that this procedure is also justified because it ensures that persons come into the protection of the insured community to be associated with the time-limit of this respective insurance community. In my view, it would be inconceivable if insurance periods acquired many, many years ago, perhaps even decades ago, were revived when an equivalent status was achieved again, although in between, a very different form of employment took place. For these reasons, we cannot approach such a decision in its original form. Nevertheless, I think it would be useful to consider the introduction of self-insurance in unemployment insurance for certain groups of workers in order to find a solution for the future. But I would like to point out the whole problem, namely that it would not be in line with the idea of solidarity if an insured group were to take advantage of the same offer under very different conditions, including in respect of contributions. You know that speculation in particular in the field of social policy is used to reduce confidence in this system, but I think it is our particular responsibility to ensure that confidence in this system is maintained. Allow me to refer to Amendments 216/A and 217/A by the Greens – Mr Oellinger has already referred to it – regarding the right of passive voting both in the Chamber of Labour and in the Constitutional Act. You know – we have been able to discuss this issue several times in this House – that it is also my concern to reach a political consensus on this issue. Therefore, as discussed in the Committee, I will start discussions with all the groups concerned on the form in which a comprehensive, overall consensus of interest can be found. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can also use the opportunity to give you a brief information on the current negotiations on seasonal workers in tourism. Since yesterday, we have been working with the stakeholders concerned to reach an agreement on quota allocation in the context of seasonal employment in order to meet the reasonable needs. However, I would ask for an understanding of the fact that, in particular as regards unemployment in tourism, we have to take account of this trend in the corresponding release of quotas in a different way from one region to another. However, I am convinced that we will reach a compromise with the groups concerned. [[Appreciation by Members Kiermaier and Dr Platter.]] Finally, I would like to thank you very much for the way in which cooperation between the Committee on the Interior, the Committee on Social Affairs and the two ministries has taken place in the context of these laws. I think it is a tangible package that we have been able to produce, and it is very worthy of a social state like Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8919	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. The next speaker is Mr Platter. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8944	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If, at the beginning of the 1990s, the Foreign Law and the Residence Act have taken account of the political changes in Europe, we can undoubtedly say with fug and right that today's package concerns those areas of problem which we have recognised in practice in recent years. I am thinking, for example, of the coordination of the right of foreigners with the right of foreigners to employment, I am thinking of the substantial restriction of entry, which takes account of the interests of most of our citizens, I am thinking of the need for integration through easier access to the labour market, I am thinking of the improved capacity of countries to participate in setting annual quotas, but I am thinking in particular of the positive changes in the field of asylum law. Today's debate, in particular the various "words" of the opposition parties, actually confirms to me that we are really good at the foreign package before the decision-making process. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens argue, for example, that these templates, in which they did not cooperate, are inhuman. They even argue and talk about racist effects. The Freemans, on the other hand, are populist: We won't let anyone in, or: Foreigners out! [[Abg. May. Trattner: Go!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Both positions, both those of the Greens and Liberals as well as those of the Freemans, are undoubtedly too extreme. We – as honourable Member Kiss has already said – are in the golden middle, and that is a good thing. In contrast to the opposition parties, the ÖVP has composed of all representatives of the charitative and security organisations. There are experiences on both sides that are understandable and comprehensible, and we have taken these arguments seriously. The laws should be humanitarian and should be helped as quickly as possible, especially in the field of asylum. In the field of asylum, each individual case is usually associated with a serious personal fate. It is therefore not always easy for the authority to make the right decision. We must therefore create clear guidelines in the field of asylum in order to be able to help, but also in order to prevent abuses. As far as asylum is concerned, however, it would also be particularly desirable, in my opinion, for one to deal with this issue across Europe so that possible legal harmonization can be achieved. A few points on asylum law, which I think are particularly important. – Experience has shown that many in Austria have sought asylum, although there has been no prospect of recognition for them under the Geneva Convention on Refugees. Therefore, asylum is to be granted at the border only if the asylum seekers in another State were not safe from persecution. There is this shortened procedure, which I believe is welcome. However, in order to provide optimal advice in spite of the short term of this procedure, charitative organisations are explicitly opening up access to legal advice. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Kier has claimed that the officials are not capable of doing so. There is no doubt that this is the case. It is only about the best advice. The criticism that no appropriate legal protection has been given must be answered that the creation of the independent federal asylsenate undoubtedly means improved legal protection. This was expressly welcomed by UNHCR, Caritas and the security authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also set ourselves a target for another measure against the inhumane tow-freeness of human beings. It is not only those people who have left their homes as victims of armed conflict, but also those who are witnesses and victims of trafficking in human beings. Ladies and gentlemen! From these remarks we may be able to see that we worked intensively in committee together with various experts and discussed the integration package in detail. The opposition, especially the Greens, preferred to express their opinion on the media. Your behaviour, especially in an important legislative matter, will be very difficult for you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, to explain to your electorate! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Headmaster.]] Since the Greens were so strongly criticised today, I recall the expert hearing they were not in when the Member of Parliament asked the head of the UNHCR, Dr. Blatter, some questions. – Mr Kiss, you have asked what it looks like in general, but you have also asked Dr. Blatter how we are in the field of asylum law in international comparison. [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you related?]] The answer from Dr. Blatter was that Austria is very good in the international comparison. – I am very pleased that I am therefore very pleased to give the consent of both laws, the Foreign Law and the Asylum Act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to mention one point that seems to me very important and important. When we talk about the integration package, not only does the right of foreigners and the right of asylum belong to it, but, of course, criteria must also be laid down for the achievement of citizenship. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] Integration can only be successful if the foreigner who applied for the achievement of citizenship dominates the German language and also deals with the country's culture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I regret that this important legislative matter has not been negotiated within the framework of this integration package. However, I am glad that the Minister has hoped that we will discuss this in the second half of 1997. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9040	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9061	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! One more word to my previous speaker. Mr Platter, you have celebrated ÖVP's policy as the golden middle path. [[Abg. Platter: Good policy!]] Good politics, wonderful! However, this should not relate to Vienna and not to Mr Görg. There you can see nothing of the golden middle, if Mr. Görg even asked for something left of the SPÖ, which comrades in Vienna would not demand for a good reason, not even in a dream: the opening of the municipal buildings for foreign immigrants. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – This is the "golden center" you will keep: The ÖVP Vienna will disappear more and more in the sinking. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leikam and also Mrs Reitsamer have said in their speeches that integration is the main objective of the foreign policy of their party. Mr Leikam said: Integration is ahead of new immigration. – Well, that would be a principle that we could follow a hundred percent – all of us, Mr Koppler – if it were to be kept consistently by you, if it were called: [[Abg. Koppler: You!]] For us, integration is the main objective in foreign policy. Yes, but if you want to integrate, Mr Koppler, then the parameters for integration must also vote. What do they look like? – Integration means fixed workplace, means fixed dwelling, means school places for young people. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You must admit, at least here in Vienna for a long time – but really for a long time! – is no longer given. Here in Vienna, you have created a situation in which integration in truth is no longer possible through unbridled immigration over the last ten years. I ask you: If you say integration is going before immigration, why do you decide today to re-establish immigration rates, where population groups, such as the students, are already excluded from the quota, and in which you speak of a family union, although we know – and the Minister has admitted this too – that 100 000 more family members are waiting to come to Austria? Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If that is your principle, then you cannot give such a law your consent, but then you must join us in the process of having a stop from immigration until these parameters of integration have been respected until there are again enough jobs, until the housing shortage has been fought, especially in Vienna and until we have improved in the school situation. [[Complaints with the liberals]] For this cannot be meant by integration, that we already have to integrate the Austrians with the immigrants, if we do about the 15th century. District school classes with 70, 80 and more percent of foreigners. Furthermore, this Act regulates the establishment of residence. If a person becomes, for example, criminal and has already been in Austria for a number of years, then he can no longer be postponed. Ladies and gentlemen! The people's wishes for us are quite different. No human says: Foreigners!, no one says this, not even in the population, but people demand us as political representatives that we ensure orderly conditions. And the question of illegal and also criminal foreigners is an important problem in this context. The problems do not make the integrated host workers, we all know very well, on the contrary, they also suffer from such a policy that does not eliminate the abuses in this area. And with the support of this law, these maladies are still cemented instead of removed. Another example from my district is to see what problems there are in Vienna: ==References== District had 100,000 inhabitants 30 years ago and a percentage of foreigners of 1 percent. Today it has a population of just over 60,000, and the proportion of foreigners is 40 percent. What has moved here within 30 years, only to the population groups within Vienna, which has worsened in infrastructure here, is incredible. I recently made a request in the district office in the 15th century. District read, you have to do something against slum education in the belt region. Ladies and gentlemen! When the liberals warned about such a development a few years ago, we have still been reproached as the great scandalizers, than the populists. Today, where it's too late, come here and try to fix something you've broken. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have broken a region of Vienna with many tens of thousands of inhabitants. Today you are trying to fix something that can no longer be repaired. If you had followed our policy five, ten years ago, when we said: Inclusion of Foreigners only to the extent that they are truly integrable!, then we would not have these problems today. One last on the issue of asylum policy: The problem of Bosnian refugees has still not been dealt with today. It is always said that in principle they should already return, but they have integrated, have work and do not want back. I would like to remind you of one thing, ladies and gentlemen: We were all in agreement here – not only in Parliament, but also in broad layers of the population – that we should not provide aid to injured, persecuted people, but must. This was not only in 1956 at the Hungarian crisis, but also in 1968 in the crisis in Czechoslovakia and, of course, in the 1990s, when people were persecuted in our immediate neighborhood. And we all agreed that we Austrians have the obligation to take up refugees. But the condition – and we agreed on this too – was that these people whom we received should return when the conditions in their home country improve. Now suddenly I don't hear anything about it, now suddenly it's called: They're integrated here, they have to stay here, and if they don't want back, they're supposed to have their stay here. – What will that mean for future crises, ladies and gentlemen? Have you ever thought about that? Will the people not believe that their confidence in the political representatives has been misused here? Will the Austrians – especially those people who live in districts where there is a proportion of 30, 40 percent of foreigners – not say in the future: That is the last time we have been guided by the light, in the future we will no longer agree to a reception of those persecuted by politics!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is the danger that I see behind such a policy, a hidden immigration policy on the asylum process: that on the one hand, we are getting uncontrolled states through this unbridled foreign immigration and on the other hand, we are losing the understanding of the population for it, then, if it is necessary to provide the really depressed aid. You should also take this into account, in particular you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, as these questions have always been a matter of concern to you in the decision-making of this law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[13:45]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9136	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have to make the following statement: In accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested that an investigation committee be set up to examine the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free departure of the perpetrators concerning the murder of the then chairman of the DPK-I, Dr. Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou and his two confidants; in particular, whether and what instructions were given in view of the threats of Iran to "declarate the documents on the illegal Austrian arms supplies in the first Gulf War" as claimed by the former President of Iran Bani Sadr. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, debate and vote shall also take place after completion of the agenda. Mr Gaál has now been reported to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9165	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Scheibner! Since you have asked us to follow the policy of the FPÖ, I must say: Especially as regards foreign policy, we cannot go with the FPÖ, which is simply not possible because you have taken yourself out of the race with the anti-foreign people’s desire. [[Abg. Scheibner: You said the demands are all fulfilled!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's all you've done!]] You have left basic democratic consensus. And if you remember the anti-foreign people's desire again, then you can only say - also from the experience in my district, in which 30,000 Foreigners are at home –: This policy, which you pursue in this causa – I really have to say in all its clarity here – carries in it the germ of violence, for alien hatred and xenophobia have been greatly shaken. [[Violent contradiction with the liberals.]] That's why it's impossible to go with you here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear friends! The most important principles in this integration package were and are for us: Fairness, humanity and clarity. This is a matter of law placed on the existing problems. We were also aware, at the stage of the discussion, that these are very sensitive issues to be dealt with with with with with with with with a great deal of attention. There has been a very detailed assessment procedure on this law – it has already been mentioned today – with comprehensive opinions and amendments. And many of these suggestions have been received into the government template, and the result can be seen. In a European comparison, ladies and gentlemen, we have provided the most liberal answer that is possible in this area, both in terms of theory and practice. We have indeed not made it easy in the discussions, and we have not said that we are bordering, but we have taken action to ensure that Austria continues to live up to its reputation as an asylum country, and we have also taken action to allow the citizens of the poorer countries to share in our prosperity, but not in an uncontrolled, but in a legally regulated way. We are going to continue this course, and this attitude really has nothing to do with the negative attitude towards foreigners, but we can imagine a meaningful relationship in this area. I therefore also have to reject the criticism of the Greens of the integration package, because this package is based on the idea of integration and the idea of a human asylum policy, which manifests itself in each of the sections of this law. In expert hearing, too, all experts have talked about improvements and a great deal of progress in integration policy. Therefore, the allegation that integration possibilities have not been improved is once again completely empty, as shown by Sections 34 and 35, which regulate the designation and residence confirmation. In this respect, it is established that, in the case of middleless citizens, after eight years of legal residence, their residence permit will no longer be lost and that, after ten years of legal residence, withdrawals will only be carried out in the event of serious crime. There has so far been no such residence confirmation. And the third-country provision is forward-looking too. In future, it will be carefully examined whether a refugee in the third country finds recognition as a refugee and is treated in accordance with the Geneva Refugee Convention, so that he does not threaten to be expelled or relocated to his home country. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a way forward in foreign and foreign policy. It is also true that the second generation has far-reaching equality with domestic citizens. And there are also some reliefs in the family estate. Only those who live with us unlawfully will have to leave Austria in the future. But the principle applies: Integration is ahead of new immigration. This means that foreigners living in Austria need to be better integrated. As far as immigration is concerned, we remain in this very restrictive course. There will therefore only be limited migration of workers, because we want to provide workers living in the country with work first, before we allow further people to be brought into our country. We are concerned, as has been said, with the increased integration of those who have been living and working here for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen! We – and with "we" I also mean the colleagues from the ÖVP – have worked on a constructive solution, on a solution that corresponds to our humanist and democratic tradition, and on a package of integrations with a variety of changes and improvements, without overdoing the Austrian population, and we continue along this path. We need problem solvers and no better knowers, we need a coalition of reason – and both are present. We have proved that we are making very responsible policies in this sensitive area, such as foreign policy, and that will make the Federal Government and the majority groups in this House the first address in terms of problem-solving competence in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9231	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Second word, 6 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9253	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have deliberately chosen the path of a second word in order to be able to deal separately with the aspects that are being negotiated here. However, I would like to take the opportunity to make a few comments on the comments made by Mr Schlögl. The three goals he mentioned – first: Integration for people living here, second: more humane and practical asylum policy, and thirdly: Re-admission to a small extent – would be right. Only what you present here is not suitable for achieving goals, not on the question of integration and not on the question of human rights of asylum – at least perhaps on the question of reduced re-entry, but also without eye-to-eye, bureaucratic and forward-looking. In this context, on behalf of my group, I am therefore putting forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] They see that we are quite constructively breaking our heads within the meaning of your Objective 3 and not representing the principle of open borders, but rather the principle of orderly procedures. If, however, I am finally turning to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, perhaps I will make one more comment at the transition from Mr Schlögl to you, Mrs Federal Minister: We've never said the law has got worse. We have just said that it has not really been improved, because worse than it is now, it could hardly be. This is due to the fact that we have 20 000 cases pending at the Administrative Court. If a law is good, that is usually not the case. Federal Minister Schlögl meant that he could not do everything in an integration, he actually addressed it to you, because the question of passive voting rights within the meaning of Mr Öllinger's requests would, of course, have been an element of a real integration package. In the case of emergency aid, too, there would have been a chance to show that the integration package really raises a genuinely inclusive claim. What you're doing here – it's just a repair that's needed due to an ever-higher-judicial knowledge – with a date of entry into force in 2000 and with a regulation that eight-year-olds have to be in place within the last ten years, is exactly the same philosophy that allows people to be pushed off if they have been unemployed for one year and less than eight years. In other words, Emergency aid has also been arranged by you in such a way that these people can be removed more easily. That's not good and it's not integrative at all. I mean, that had to be mentioned, because even if more than one Federal Minister is responsible for a matter, it should be possible within a federal government to come to a real overall package. The last aspect – and that is the real reason why I split my statements into two parts – is the aspect of part-employment. I was pleased to see you feel that you are in principle constructive. I can assure you that we will, of course, bring back a further developed, improved, similar proposal with the same objective. I also offer you our documents. We have detailed material, we have complete encounters of documents about it. We've analyzed the problem. We have also discussed it with our colleagues in friendly political groups abroad. We are happy to make all of this available to you. I believe that only if we find an elastic system in which part-time work and part-time unemployment can be complementary, can we remove this field. I would be pleased if our next request, which we will bring back today or at the latest tomorrow, would then be subject to a thorough preliminary consultation. And I offer you, Mrs. Federal Minister, and your house the conversation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9338	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speech is by Mr Dr. Puttinger before. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9362	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Three brief comments, the first to be made to Mr Moser: For such an experienced Member of Parliament, it should not be so surprising that, if you have gained experience, you will have to change a law. For me, this statement was quite amazing. In brief, Mr Oellinger's comments: On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to make it clear that we are confessing to the family and, of course, we are trying to define the concept of the family constitutionally. Mr Oellinger, if he had been a little concerned with this, would also have to know that we have always observed and become the regulars of the Convention on Human Rights in the context of family integration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Very briefly, the third remark to the "F" – it is therefore quite evenly distributed – is: Of course, we take parliamentarianism seriously, but, ladies and gentlemen of the F, that does not mean that we must take all parliamentarians seriously at the same time. There are exceptions which I do not necessarily take so seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Who do you mean?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Foreign Law, the Asylum Act and the Foreign Employment Act to be adopted today have already been considered from a number of points of view by my previous speakers. As an entrepreneur, allow me to highlight some of the positions of the economy. This matter, referred to as the "Integration Package", brings a relatively favourable approach between the above-mentioned laws. At least in some areas – unfortunately not in all, as I wish – the principle has been taken into account that the person entitled to stay may also work. I am thinking of the rule that a foreigner who has been in Austria for eight years or more, or of the rule that a person who is here for three years should be favored if he has a family to care for. For the economy, it is important that the provisions relating to seasonal workers have been incorporated into the new alien law under the existing residence law under the title "Residence permit for seasonal workers". It is also important that the application for a residence permit for seasonal workers can now be made after their entry if the aliens have been entitled to enter without notice. In addition to the continuing possibility for seasonal eggs to find employment within the quota for six months, there is also the possibility of a one-month period of employment for which only a simple confirmation is required in the travel document. This is, as I believe, an essential step forward. In any case, it is important for us from the economy – as others have already noted – that, in the case of seasonal eggs, consideration be given to regional and qualitative needs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For managers and special workers, easier access to the Austrian labour market is provided, as they are covered by the rules applicable to foreign workers and have access to them by means of a residence permit. Their spouses and minors, unmarried children are also to be granted the permit of establishment. Volontaires, as well as those sent by the company, are granted access to them by means of a right of residence. – As I believe, the use of the ÖVP has paid off: A legal situation detrimental to Austria's economic location has finally been removed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the past, the basis for the calculation of the Federal highest number has repeatedly caused criticism in proceedings at the Constitutional and Administrative Courts, because they have not been clear from the relevant legal provisions and have not been comprehensible. I expressly welcome the clear accounting arrangements which are now being created for the calculation of the extent of the extent of exhaustion and over-examination of the Federal highest number. This will finally create legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, there are also drops of wormwood. I am thinking, for example, of persons who have a residence permit for each stay and, if they do not work for four months in the first year. I am also thinking of persons who, if they are not able to work for a year between the second and eighth years of their stay, can be identified. I am also thinking – this is a very important point – of extending the four-week period to six weeks which are granted to the labour market service in order to make a decision on a requested employment permit or a security certificate. This cannot be the right way in a time of flexibility and globalisation! Imagine you want to hire someone and have to wait six weeks; after that there may be a call, and it takes another six weeks. After that, the season is over, and instead of doing a business, you have the check-out. At this point, I wanted to ask the Minister to release the seasonal model for Austria as a whole. But I only need to thank her now for doing so on its own initiative. It was inconceivable that, despite a worse situation on the labour market in Vienna, a seasonal arrangement was not applied in the other federal states of Austria. I hope that this will be managed positively within the next one to two days. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The new foreign, asylum and foreign employment law to be decided today is a big step in the right direction. These laws contribute significantly to the legal certainty of the Austrians, but also to the legal certainty of foreigners. As I hope, they will have positive effects in many areas of our economy and at the same time offer humanitarian solutions in many areas. High house! That is why I ask you, all political groups, to give these laws as a whole consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9433	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9454	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Kiss said that you had dealt very seriously and very comprehensively with matter in the Committee and discussed it. But one thing you did not discuss in the Committee – you did not mention it with a word, and it does not find any meaning in the whole of the integration package – the issue of women. It is about women on the run, both about the situation of women in the asylum law and about the disadvantage of women as regards the foreign law. [[Abg. Kiss: No, Mrs. Colleague, that's not true! You weren't there! We talked about it!]] We were not there, but you know that our staff took part in the committee meetings, and we therefore know very well what you are discussing and what you have said. [[Abg. Kiss: Your staff went out in the hour, while we were permanently inside!]] They have not mentioned the situation of women in a word, although they account for 80 percent of refugees. 80 percent of refugees are women, and women and children are also the most affected in this area. It is about looking again at the areas and reasons in which women are being persecuted and what this integration package and the asylum law provide for in this respect. In our view, there is hardly any provision to be made for this fact. I would therefore like to remind you of this once again, and I would like to quote it in a way, because the asylum authorities' decisions do not only take this into account in any way, but rather just the situations that women have to endure on the run, so to speak, ridicule. Women have to purchase persecutions because they exceed standards that have been created specifically for women. They are persecuted because their husbands, their brothers, or their fathers are persecuted politically. Women are tortured specifically to extortion confessions that serve to bring about convictions or to continue political persecutions and tortures. However, women are also persecuted and excluded in prison and on flight. They are raped very often. They are often supplied with helpless mechanisms, which are supposed to serve to protect women, but are actually only exploiting them. Finally, attention should be paid to those women whose motive for the escape is genital mutilations. This is to such an extent that this fact should also be taken into account in a law. But this has not come to light and has not found any precipitation. Since the abuse of women and children has reached such an extent, we believe that it should be set as an asylum ground. This is also the subject of the amendment that we have tabled and Mr Stoisits has already mentioned in her statement. This amendment makes it clear that § 6a should be inserted, that there are reasons for asylum which are clearly justified and which concern precisely the areas in which women have been persecuted to this extent and which have not yet been taken into account. To support this, I would like to remind you of two current examples that you have probably got to face because they are an issue from Amnesty International. These are two of many examples of those who have been denied asylum and who are hard-wearing. These statements show why the observance of the above-mentioned crime is so important and require special treatment. Once again, we are talking about the situation in Afghanistan and asylum applications of asylum seekers from Afghanistan. In one case, a woman who had sought asylum because she was persecuted as a woman in Afghanistan was answered that although it was possible that hard cases might occur, it should not be overlooked that a significant proportion of the world’s population lived by Islamic patterns of conduct and had dominated them for a long time in the past in Afghanistan. Furthermore, it is stated that due to the regime change in Afghanistan, there has now been appropriate patterns of conduct and therefore this case cannot be derived from persecution for the reasons set out in the Convention. If the woman adheres to these rules, she will not continue to be persecuted. It reads as follows: If women adhere to these requirements, they are at least not exposed to any danger beyond the level of risk to which women in Afghanistan are generally exposed. Very cynical is said with this: If you submit to these dress regulations, then nothing will happen and there will be no personal persecution. But it is not just about dress regulations, but, as we know, it is focused on the persecution of women who are in the profession and forced to maintain their families. Because the situation in Afghanistan must be taken into account: Many men have been killed or have fallen, have been dragged away or are missing, and women must receive the families, but they cannot do so in the current political situation. I think it is completely cynical to write into an asylum notice that the woman may adhere to the dress order and then she will not happen before, and to ignore the complex and very significant political context completely. Perhaps the authorities in the Ministry of the Interior should be advised to monitor the current foreign policy coverage in the daily newspapers more closely. The second documented case corresponds to the kind of cases I have first identified: that women are persecuted because their husbands are politically persecuted. If such a woman in Austria is seeking asylum, and this is due to the fact that the husband has been politically persecuted and deprived and has been missing for three months, she will answer: There is no cause for them to be persecuted, because it concerns their husbands and not them. It also ignores the fact that in authoritarian regimes it is not only common, but rather on the agenda that women are also persecuted by persecuted men and have to endure abuses. We believe that this should be an asylum ground alone, in addition to all the other reasons that we have put forward. Before amending the laws you are going to adopt today, I believe that this issue should have been considered as a matter of priority, as 80 percent of refugees are women. But you have also worsened and not improved the situation of women in the current foreign law. They have worsened them because you have made the situation so rigid in many areas as to the whole family environment that it will be the women who will carry it out and feel the consequences massively. We have also tabled an amendment which my colleague has already tabled. I would just like to quote once again those points which are specifically aimed at the problems of women. First of all, it is about the four-year period within which a husband's death or divorce may lose the opportunity to stay. It does not take into account at all the special situation that women have to endure: that women bear the responsibility of maintaining a family after the husband's death or after divorce. Instead of being supported in this situation, they lose their residence permit and can be declared. Furthermore, there is no possibility of change of purpose over a period of up to eight years. If women who have come to Austria in the context of family integration want to look for a job after four or five years – when the children are big – they cannot do so because there is no possibility of changing the purpose of the stay. Also, in the case of unemployment within the first eight years of the loss of residence, women, particularly in connection with the family situation, are affected. In the bill you have specified local accommodation as a supply ground. I wonder what the "local accommodation" is and what it looks like. We could talk here for a long time about the Austrian situation regarding local accommodation, and it would be the question of what kind of local accommodation They want to be taken as a benchmark for foreign families, without taking into account the family situation and the loads and obligations to be borne and maintained by women. Finally, I come to the point that I believe to be one of the most defying in the attitude of the EIA: the point of family integration. If you want to tighten up the rules on family integration and in the future do not want to allow any more integration, provided that the children are older than 14 years old, I feel that this is a hypocrisy of a party that not only still carries the word "Christian" in any way, but has, particularly in the last few days, once again sought to protect and honor the family and perhaps even to commit it in the Constitution. When it comes to the realization of this desire, the family is worth so much to you. But if it is a matter of families of non-Austrian nationals, then the family is not worth anything to you at all. That's how serious it is to you with your claim. They obviously make a distinction in two kinds of families: in the one that you want to put under a glass crash, regardless of what may be associated with it; and in the other, which is not worth anything to you, which is at least so little worth to you that you enter for children a limit of 14 years, in whose excess does not exist for you this term of family. We will remember very carefully that you have such a strange concept of family, in case you really come with your absurd notions of protecting the family through an anchoring in the Constitution. Then you'll see how far it is with your family's understanding. In any case, you lack total understanding of women's policy in relation to migration, integration, escape and stay.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9514	The two amendments tabled by Mrs Kammerlander on essential points and broad lines have been properly tabled, duly supported and are therefore under negotiation. Applications shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request of Deputies Mag. Terezija Stoisits, Mag. Doris Kammerlander, friends and friends concerning a federal law on granting asylum (Asylgesetz 1997 – AsylumG) 686 dBeil zu den StenProt NR XX. GP i.d.F. of the Committee Report 755 dBeil The National Council wants to decide: The government template (686 dBeil StenProt NR XX. GP) concerning a Federal Law on the Grant of Asylum (Asyl Law 1997 – Asylum G) IDF of the Committee Report (755 dBeil StenProt NR XX. GP) is amended as follows: 1. § 4 (2) and (3) are amended and read as follows: (2) Protection in a safe third country exists for persons who are open to them in a State where they are not under threat under § 57(1) or (2) FRG, a procedure for granting the status of a refugee under the refugee convention, they are entitled to stay in that State during that procedure, and where they have protection from deportation to the State of origin or third country – also by means of other States, provided that they are threatened in that State in accordance with Section 57(1) or (2) of the FRG. The safe third country must have ratified the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the New York Protocol and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and made a declaration pursuant to Article 25 of this Convention. The actual implementation of these instruments must in any case be ensured. (3) Where the conditions laid down in paragraph 2 are met, an application for asylum must only be rejected because of inadmissibility if the State concerned has given explicit consent to allow the applicant to return, to examine the asylum application in terms of content and to provide effective protection. 2. In § 6 Z 3 and 4, Z 5 is replaced by Z 3. 3rd. The following section 6a and heading shall be inserted after § 6: Obviously justified applications for asylum § 6a. Applications for asylum referred to in § 3 shall be considered to be manifestly justified if: 1. the applicant is a national of a State, or, if it is stateless, has previously resided in a State of which, because of its general experience, legal status and application, it is assumed that there is, as a general rule, a legitimate risk of persecution in that State; 2. women for well-founded fear of women-specific persecution, such as genital mutilation, rape, sexual abuse or other forms of women-specific human rights abuses by the State or tolerance of state institutions; 3rd. Men from probably justified fear of sexual persecution because of their homosexual tendencies by the state or under the tolerance of state organs. 4. Paragraph 10(2) is amended as follows: (2) Requests for asylum may be lodged at the earliest opportunity at the same time as the asylum application referred to in the case; they shall be permitted for parents of a minor or for spouses and minors of unmarried children, as well as for other close relatives, if special circumstances arise for re-unification. Other close relatives shall be taken into account in particular if they are in a dependency relationship and are entitled to maintenance in respect of recognised refugees. spouses shall be considered as members within the meaning of paragraph 1 only if the marriage is concluded no later than one year after the arrival of the stranger who has filed an asylum application. 5. In Section 14(3), the expression "according to paragraphs 1 Z 4 and 5" is supplemented as follows and is "according to 1 Z 2, 4 and 5". 6. Paragraph 17(1) of the last sentence is replaced by the following: "or to reject your request for a decision", paragraph 2 is amended as follows, and paragraphs 3 to 5 are replaced by the following: 2. Foreigners who apply for asylum or asylum relief on the occasion of border crossing at a border crossing point shall be personally consulted by an institution member of the Bundesasylamt, appointed to decide. They shall not be rejected until the final decision on the application for asylum has been taken. 7. § 21 (1) and (2) are amended and read as follows: § 21. (1) As far as asylum seekers with temporary residence rights are concerned, unless otherwise specified, the Xenophobia Act applies in total, but Sections 33(2), 36(2), Z 8, 55 and 61 to 63 do not apply. The asylum seekers who are in charge of asylum are an asyl-legislative and independent procedural advisor and an interpreter of his choice to offer free of charge. (2) An applicant may not be rejected, rescinded or rescinded; the transmission of personal data of an asylum seekers to the country of origin, for example, in order to obtain the authorisation necessary for entry, is not permitted. 8. Paragraph 25(2) is supplemented as follows: The youth welfare agency is obliged to contribute to a refugee counsellor in these matters. 9. § 26(2) last sentence is amended as follows: The fact sheet shall be transmitted or transmitted to any applicant and to any applicant for asylum in an understandable language. The applicant must also point out, with application, the possibility of taking up the contract with a refugee advisor and must be provided with the necessary assistance. 10. Paragraph 27(1) is amended as follows: § 27. (1) In principle, asylum seekers must be heard personally by an organ manager of the Bundesasylamt, appointed to decide. 11th@item: inlistbox The following paragraph 4 is added to Section 27(3): (4) In the case of clearly justified applications for asylum referred to in § 6a, a request may be waived. In any event, in the event of a clearly justified asylum application in accordance with § 6a Z 2, the asylum application must be granted without consent if a doctor, psychiatrist, psychotherapist, psychologist or other persons have undoubtedly established the existence of a woman-specific human rights infringement within the meaning of § 6a Z 2. 12. § 29 is amended as follows: § 29. Decisions shall include the statement of appeal and the reference to § 61a of the AVG and the reasoning for the decision in a language understood to the applicant. If the application is rejected as manifestly unfounded or rejected for lack of competence on the grounds of § 4 and 5, the notice shall be accompanied by a translation of the statement of reasons and the relevant provision of law. 13. In § 32, paragraph 1, the word sequence "within two days" is replaced by the word sequence "within 14 days". 14. Paragraph 40(1) is amended as follows: § 40. (1) In order to support foreigners in matters of asylum law and to ensure asyl-legislative advice, the Federal Minister for Internal Refugee Advisor may order. 15. The following section 40a is inserted after § 40a: § 40a. Each asylum-seekers shall be provided free of charge by an alyl-legislative and independent procedural advisor – if necessary with an interpreter. 16. The following paragraph 7 is added to Section 44(6): (7) Persons who hold a temporary residence permit under § 8 of the Asylum Act in 1991 at the time of the entry into force of the Asylum Act will now receive such a permit under § 15 Asylum Act 1997.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9943	Mrs Hlavac is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 5 minutes of voluntary limitation of speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9963	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Asylum law is an area that every politically committed person must treat with attention and great seriousness. Between 1934 and 1945, many Austrians sought asylum abroad. Today we live in a secure democratic state, and people from other parts of the world come to us and seek asylum here. The new law seeks to ensure that any person who is persecuted politically and is threatened with torture, prison or even death and cannot leave safe third countries actually finds asylum and protection in Austria. In order to ensure that no one is unjustly rejected – that can be a matter of life and death – legal protection has been extended and the procedure improved. The creation of an independent federal asylsenate as a second instance seems particularly significant to me. This Bundesasylsenat is to be transferred to the Administrative Court as a judicial body. The arrangements concerned largely comply with the comparable provisions on the independent management Senates in the countries. I think that this ensures a great deal of independence in the decisions of asylum law. The draft law was approved by NGOs and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, to present clear progress and to improve the legal situation of asylum seekers. It is true that a number of wishes remain open, namely the procedure at the border, the time limits for appeal for rejection of the asylum application and some other questions. As far as the problem of asylum application at the border is concerned, it is also an improvement compared to the current state of affairs; perhaps not to a satisfactory extent, but it is a clear improvement. This problem will certainly have to be further considered, with the involvement of NGOs. However, no one has yet been able to propose a better solution, which would have been practical. The two-day deadline for the appeal against a rejection of the asylum application for obvious unfoundedness or third-country security is indeed very short. The subcommittee also discussed whether it would not be possible to extend this period. The short deadlines in which our neighbouring countries are prepared to take back asylum seekers make this impossible. I regret this, but perhaps you can come to a different solution at an international level. At the moment, however, this is not possible. In this context, a few words about our neighbours and the question of the safe third countries. The system of the safe third country is also considered by the UN High Commissioner as a suitable basis for contractual agreements between States. The safe third countries are those in which the refugee has already received asylum or could have applied for asylum. Third-country security is given regularly when the State has ratified the Geneva Convention on Refugees, has established an asylum procedure and has also ratified the ECHR. Although Hungary has joined the Geneva Convention and Protocol 1967, it has ratified it with a non-European reservation, i.e.: Non-European refugees can use the protection of the ECHR and also the UN Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment. The UNHCR has also reached an informal and non-written agreement with the Hungarian Government to refer non-European asylum seekers to the office in Budapest. The problem is, however, that there is no special national law for non-European asylum seekers and refugees in Hungary and that it cannot always be ensured that applications for the identification of refugee status are also systematically forwarded. Mr. Federal Minister! This gives rise to a difficult situation for refugees, as it is easy to imagine. I know that you are in constant contact with your Hungarian counterpart in order to solve this problem. I would urge you to continue these efforts. However, it is also evident that refugee care is an additional burden for the countries of Eastern Europe in their difficult economic situation, and I think that European solidarity would be needed. Another comment on the question of women's asylum seekers and their rights. Paragraph 27 of the Asylum Act states that asylum seekers who are founded on their fear of persecution for intervention in their sexual self-determination must be consulted by organ walters of the same sex. This makes it quite clear that this form of persecution must also be observed. There should be no misunderstandings that women who are exposed to sexual violence for political, religious or ethnic reasons have a real reason for asylum. I believe that this is a very important clarification that this has taken account of the demand of many women's organisations. There has also been an improvement for women in the field of asylum. In conclusion, I should like to say that legal protection and legal certainty for asylum seekers have increased and I can therefore agree with the proposed legislation with good conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10020	Mrs Haller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10042	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a liberal, but, I think, many other logical Austrians also confirm today's debate: that the Austrian foreign employment and foreign policy so far has only been re-acting and has not acted in any way forward-looking. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There has so far been no long-term immigration and integration policy. I must make this accusation to the rulers – without any polemics. This is an accusation that you, Mr Schlögl, may not know so much even in the Foreign Employment Act, which is in the explanatory remarks in the cost assessment of emergency aid and confirms this very fact. If Mr Schwemlein says today that he is proud of the continuing foreign policy so far, then I can only hope that perhaps a little has been learned from mistakes made. Federal Minister! You have agreed today that the current foreign laws are a compromise package, and you have wished that in the future the matter will be treated with detemoration and detideologicalization. But one simply sees at all corners and ends that even these laws are only compromise solutions again, and compromise solutions are not the yellow of the egg. We all know that. It is simply a fact, Mr Federal Minister, that this legislation has improved foreigners' rights. There is the improvement of Turks vis-à-vis other foreigners from EU third countries. [[Abg. Kiss: Why do you think?]] It is already clear to me that we had to look at it because there is exactly the EU Association Agreement, but: The Austrian Government has failed to negotiate an exemption when it enters the EU. You've known what's going to happen to us – or you've deliberately closed your eyes. That is why it is de facto that Turkish workers are now being employed beyond the 8-percent quota. They're being treated preferably. You have the right to get work beyond 8 percent. That the Turks will benefit from this circumstance and that this will also have an impact on family succession, we must not close our eyes again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! If you say that these laws do not mean any deterioration in the legislation so far, this is at least not true of the Ausländerbehördegesetz, because in the future there will be no health examination. In my opinion, this is a clear deterioration – especially in view of the risk of tuberculosis. The law prefers Turks to other foreigners. If you really intend to stick exclusively and absolutely to the 9 percent ratio, so-called key forces will ultimately be disadvantaged. In the case of emergency aid, the criterion of birth shall apply, even if: In countries that are born abroad, diplomat children will also be disadvantaged. It has so far been kept silent that this new emergency aid scheme will cost the State a lot of money, rising from 1.59 million in the coming year to up to 400 million schilling in 2000, and there is no proposal to cover it. Although this is always demanded by the opposition, the government does not have to do so. But now, very briefly, on request 305/A, which I am referring to, and which includes: The last package of savings has caused a significant deterioration for self-employed people who had previously been employed under unemployment insurance. After three years, their claims are already being lost. More and more recently, self-employed people have to sell their goods and property after their failure of independence, because they do not even have the slightest financial security. And their number is increasing. The social state of Austria has created a gap in this area and is apparently not prepared to close it either. The EIA, which always intends to work for the economic operators, does nothing either. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Maderthaner, for example!]] I have heard from the Committee that Mr Feurstein very much recognises the need for a change in this area, but he would prefer self-insurance for the self-employed. All right! Why? – Because you can then make contributions again; and nothing else seems to be the subject of the ÖVP in recent times.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10110	The honourable Member's friend has been reported to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10140	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Foreign law can, in fact, only make sense to balance the concerns of foreigners living in Austria or coming to Austria and the concerns of the citizens of the Republic of Austria. However, understanding of the concerns and needs of foreigners must not be forgotten that foreign law is not a social right but a security right. It simply regulates the compatibility of immigration and residence of foreigners in Austria. Unfortunately, this has often been forgotten in the political debate in this important context, or it has been suppressed by some representatives of the opposition parties at all. The current novels on the Foreign and Asylum and Foreign Employment Act will set out substantial innovations to improve this context. What is the primary goal? – The first aim is to improve the legal status of foreigners who are legally resident in Austria. Therefore, the principles of the new Xenophobia Act are as follows: Integration before immigration and improved integration through easier access to the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Foreign people already living in Austria are to be much more involved in the local labour process and in social life. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me tell you about the employment of foreigners: On the 1st day of the year. In July 1996, the Federal Ministry of the Interior registered 416,000 genuine residence permits to third - country nationals, by 8.3 percent more than at the same time in the year before. The age distribution shows that most of the allowances went to children and adolescents under 20 years of age, i.e.: The majority of authorisations are due to increased family integration in recent years. The future job opportunities of these people, especially from Turkey and parts of Exjugoslavia, are not very high. The reason for this is that the supply of less skilled workers in Austria far exceeds current demand. Despite the improved legal situation created by the revision of the Foreign and Foreign Employment Act, the integration of these groups into the Austrian labour market will not be expected so quickly. This view is also confirmed by the study "Economic and Structural Aspects of Foreign Employment in Austria". The principle of integration before new immigration is also implemented in the field of seasonal agricultural workers. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! As you all know, the harvest in agriculture creates a temporary strong need for labour during the summer. However, this need for labour can only be met in part by domestic workers. § 9 Foreigner's Act provides that residence permits for seasonal workers are to be granted primarily to those foreigners who already have a residence permit in Austria. Of course, it will also be necessary to note, when granting residence permits, that these strangers are available regionally and have a qualification required for the job. The term "priority" is intended only to ensure that agricultural seasonal workers from abroad are not recruited until there are already legally established with equal qualifications in this region. In line with the basic principle of integration before new immigration, it is therefore appropriate to give preference to foreigners who already live in Austria, in the case of equivalent qualifications for the corresponding domestic job. The foreigner, who has to be recruited from abroad for such an activity, will only receive a residence permit if the need test is negative. The saying "Excepts confirm the rule" also applies to this law. First: These derogations for seasonal eggs cover only the labour needs arising in the summer. For example, the seasonal arrangement does not apply to the workers required during the fall of wood in winter. Secondly, Seasonal workers who have previously worked in agriculture can continue to be employed. They are also excluded from the general seasonal arrangement. High house! Despite all the current and likely future demands for greater facilitation in foreign and asylum law, we will all have to ask ourselves whether the limits of the feasibility are already reached. It is more than likely that, in view of the forthcoming cuts, particularly in the social field, any further liberalisation of the right of foreigners is at the limits of Austria's eligibility for admission and the willingness to be accepted by the Austrian population. We must not exaggerate Austrian citizens, otherwise there is a danger that their basic external kindness will be turned into the opposite. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10209	The next speech is by Mr Mag. It's up to you. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10231	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! This package of laws, including the Foreign Employment Act, is rejected by us liberals, as was heard from the debate. I would like to deal with the report on Amendment No 196/A, which concerns my own request. I am grateful to Mrs Hostasch for giving me the arguments, similar to Mrs Reitsamer, because of the discussion that has taken place in committee due to the strike, why you have rejected my request. I would like to hold you against a lot from my point of view, in order to make it clear to you why the liberals still consider this request from the year 1996. You know that your predecessor, Federal Minister Hesoun, and the current social spokesperson of the Austrian People's Party, Feurstein, have argued on the application and justification for the introduction of § 12a in the Ausländerbehörde Act in 1990 with the 10 per cent regime at that time, with the number of jobs in Austria, with social dumping, but also with the xenophobia caused by the pressure at work, and also because of the unsatisfying housing situation of many foreign workers. I can now save myself from quoting these arguments in detail. I think it should not be forgotten that, first of all, in our proposal to reduce to 6 per cent, there is no immediate reduction, of course, but it is the same as in the case of the reduction to 8 per cent, which is a continuous reduction which would have been the case in the debate. Secondly, I would also like to correct Mrs Reitsamer in so far as, in 1996, the Federal Government adopted a clear regulation on the tax package for the payment of unemployment aid to foreigners who are not legally employed or who have no employment permit in Austria. As a result, Mr Reitsamer's argument cannot be accepted with certainty, because what was abolished last year, namely unemployment aid to this group, cannot be brought in 1997 as an argument for rejecting my request. I therefore believe that it would have been fair for Mr Reitsamer to take into account her own requests which she made in the previous year and not to use them as a counter-argument. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to add the following to your arguments: Since 1990, we have had the EEA equality, after which the EU has come, and the work permits for employees of international groups, which are necessary to ensure the operation and thus also the Austrian jobs in the appropriate form, are also taken into account – all outside the quota. – At constant rates! We liberals have repeatedly stressed that the Treaties concluded by the EU with Turkey in 1980 will also have a dramatic impact on the labour market for us in Austria. This was interpreted to us as panic-making or populism before joining the EU in Austria. – Today I could be satisfied: We liberals have either read better or have been fairer, as we have told the Austrian people which individual rules for employment include these agreements. It's clear: Of the currently around 50 000 Turkish workers in Austria, about 40 000 are now, as it were, enjoying the provisions of the Association Treaty. It must also be stated clearly and clearly that the second generation is included in this association agreement, provided that the parents have lived in Austria for three years or their children have completed their training in Austria. Mrs. Federal Minister! I therefore believe that your argument regarding hardness in this case will not be taken into account and that the reduction of 8 per cent – not at once, but gradually – to 6 per cent would only take into account the derogations for those people who have been employed outside the quota in recent years and still appear in the labour market and employment figures. I also do not want to hide the fact that in this draft law one or another can be regarded as an improvement. Mr Puttinger mentioned the example of the seasonal kidney. I believe and hope that I did not misunderstand you, Mrs Bundesminister, and that you will use the instrument of the regulation not only to comply with the legitimate reputation of the economy but also to use it as a means of fulfilling the Austrian workers' wish for control of social dumping, which I believe is also justified. [[Federal Minister Hostasch nodds.]] I am glad to see your nicks, because this confirms to me that you will take both the arguments into account in your regulation – not the way Mr Puttinger has a little blue eye to his profession, but he has left the other side, that of the employees and the problem of social dumping on the left. This part, therefore, as I believe, has changed positively in the Foreign Employment Act, but not in the labour market situation. Mrs Bundesminister, you know the official data: 210 993 unemployed in May 1997 – an increase of 3 114, i.e. 1.5 percent, compared to the previous year. The average duration of unemployment was 131 days compared to 125 days in the previous year – a plus of 6 days. 23 639 foreign persons without work – a share of 11.2 percent as in the previous year. I therefore believe that the figures, the labour market situation, will justify what we have provided for in our request. It is a pity that we have not been able to discuss this in committee, since some of our suggestions might have fallen on fertile soil. Overall, I can only stress our rejection of the whole package once again. – The most important arguments have already been put forward by my previous speakers. I hope that I could at least bring the arguments for our request to you, Mrs Federal Minister, and the listeners who are still in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10271	Mr Kiermaier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10293	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The integration package, especially the Foreign Law, is a topic that moves many people in this country. All too often, it is not only very emotional, but also too aggressively discussed. It is therefore necessary to keep cool head and, as has already been said today, to go the way of centre and balance. The improvement of the legal situation for families and foreigners already living in Austria is a very urgent need. Every human-thinking person must welcome this project. In any case, it is a guarantee that the potential for conflict in everyday life will be considerably reduced. The differentiation in the draft for a new alien law is particularly positive. It will distinguish between those strangers who have lived in Austria for a long time and are therefore given a so-called residence fortification, and those who are not yet in Austria for so long. Furthermore, there is a distinction between those who want to settle in Austria on a permanent basis and those who stay with us for a limited period of time. In this way, hardness cases, as they have occurred in the past, are to be avoided. In the context of the current labour market and housing situation, however, it must be noted that integration of foreigners can only be possible in the light of the conditions in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make another comment. As a self-employed person, who repeatedly represents the agendas of the self-employed in this House, I would also like to criticize them. It is important, in my opinion, that we draw from the potential of foreign people in this country, but we do not always want to bring new foreigners back into the country if there is already a sufficient number of qualified forces. It would be, I believe, a very important thing for the circle of entrepreneurs and a good contribution to show a little more willingness on this issue. I would like to refer to a detail of this law, which may not have occurred to anyone or only a few. As a defender of the municipal guard body, I am particularly pleased that a pass is inserted in § 110(2) of this draft, which allows members of the municipal guards to be authorised by the authorities with the consent of the local authorities to provide foreign police executives. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's why alone!]] This sentence may be just a small mosaic, but: As a result, the municipal guard body is becoming more and more an important part of our executive. So if a community believes that it is worth more than a new tennis court or another achievement, then we should give it the opportunity to act on it. For this small contribution, I would like to thank the officials, but above all the Minister, whom I know he is in favour of this group, very much. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Headmaster.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (to SPÖ) I hear nothing!]] Finally, however, I would like to say another thing that is very important to me. It has already happened today, Mr Kiss said it in the early days: In the "Press" it was to be read today that those Members who agree to this bill or who identify themselves with this tendency would have to shed light on their Christian being. – On the other hand, I would like to take strict care of one thing: If someone has to judge me as a Christian, it will be my Lord – and no one else! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Exactly!]] I don't let anyone tell me if I'm a good or a bad Christian. These words are addressed to those who think they could classify us. I confess to my church, but I don't let anyone dictate anything.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10414	Mr Lammer has now been reported to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10435	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, I have listened very carefully to your remarks today. They have mentioned that it is very difficult to satisfy the wishes and needs of all, especially in these areas. You said you had chosen the way of the middle, which also seems quite reasonable. We will also support this "way of the middle" as you call it – but only when the problems of the Austrians, such as unemployment, are solved. In recent years, the savings package has imposed heavy burdens on Austrians. The budget deficit grew ever bigger. Nevertheless, no one has noticed in setting up costs in connection with this government template that, for example, what surprised me particularly, 30 new planning posts have to be made available in the field of the Asylum Act. It is clear to me that if a law is passed, it must also be implemented. But if you look closely at this, you can see that the resulting follow-up costs total about 250 million schilling. [[Abg. Kiss: This is the legal procedure!]] This is again a handle in the pockets of taxpayers who have to pay for it. This is not the policy we represent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Bravo!]] Minister! I hope that in the field of executives, in which there have been plant savings in recent years and which are also defined for the coming year, you are once more as consistent and say: In the case of safety, it must not be saved, safety is something we are worth, safety is not just the cost! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also noticed one more point, namely the opinion of the Administrative Court, which was particularly comprehensive. The administrative court – the figures are known – speaks of an overload that has reached its peak. 14 125 cases of complaint were uncompleted, compared to the first. On 3 March 1997, an increase of 3,606 complaints. [[Abg. Kiss: That's why there is the Bundesasylamt! You didn't understand!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A Burgenlander should not talk about not understanding...!]] It also says that the work in question is no longer to be dealt with, the trend is unchanged and the administrative jurisdiction is partially collapsed. There would be a lot to report on this, but I would just like to quote two short points now: In principle, it should be made clear that the measures provided for in the present drafts are in no way appropriate to lead to a discharge from the Administrative Court. – Furthermore, it would be clear that the UBAS is the relevant senior authority of the Bundesasylamt and that its decision cannot be repealed or amended in the administrative way. - Quote. This report contains very essential things, but all of them have not been taken into account in this law or have not found the necessary support. A legislation that requires more staff, a legislation that facilitates the immigration of foreigners and continues to leave Austria's gates open, a legislation that makes the deportation more difficult, and in so far as it has become a rule of law which makes the activities of the Administrative Court difficult, a legislation that leaves so many questions open, is not one that we would support in the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10525	Mr Murauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10546	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mrs Haller of the Freedom Party has stated in her statement that she lacks the necessary compromise in these legislative proposals. The middle cannot be favourable, since it cannot be our intention to involve all as well as possible and to present a draft law, backed by commonness. Mrs Haller! We have tried to find a compromise and to take into account all concerns, all legitimate objections and wishes as possible. Such a reasonable bill is now available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The bill supports both sides, namely those of the Austrian with regard to legal position, security, jobs, education and housing, but also the other side that the asylum seekers, the foreigners who are legitimately looking for a stay in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have sought this middle. We are opposed to compromise, we are opposed to the policy of door-to-door beating and barring, but also to the fact that our borders, our country without compromises, are offered every place. We don't want to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Louter Empty Words!]] An important question has already been raised today, namely how charitative organisations and UNHCR stand on this bill. They believe that the law can withstand an international comparison; it would be a major improvement. Of course, not everything could be realized, but it could be executed, said security director Dr. Marent, for example. It would be a major improvement in legal mechanisms, a more transparent, better-executable law. Mr. Minister! However, we must draw attention to the need for appropriate training and information to be given to the fact that officials must have sufficient time to prepare themselves for this law in order to be able to execute it, especially as much is at the discretion of officials. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many, many improvements for those asylum seekers who really want asylum. I should like to add: to improve the state of residence and to improve the situation of migrant workers, especially young people, more rights for asylum seekers on the border, and to focus on children in the family afterage. On this occasion I would like to inform the "F" security spokesman of Upper Austria or the refugee attaché, the State Councillor Achatz, that the supposedly 50 000 Albanian refugees in the Czech Republic, but also in other countries, cannot be found. [[Abg. Kiss: Albanian!]] He does not need to insure the Upper Austrians or himself more than he has already done in the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know the situation and problems of refugees, asylum seekers and foreigners from many personal discussions, but also the concerns and difficulties of the security authorities with subversive elements. This package of laws will apply to all, and will be more humane and forward-looking, i.e. a law with significant improvements.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10621	Mr Hofmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I would have to interrupt you in less than two minutes to call on the urgent ones. Do you want to make your contribution to the debate or after the emergency? It's only about a minute and a half now. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann disdained.]] Thank you. Then I'll interrupt the meeting until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10654	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt, Maria Schaffenrathund Comrades to the Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs concerning years of failure in education policy and the cost explosion in the school area (2569/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10698	The debate is now under way to deal with a written request. It has now been distributed; reading by a writer is therefore inadequate. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10998	We are immediately beginning with the business-and-business procedure, which means that the first questioner, Dr Schmidt, receives the floor for the reasons for the question. The speaking time shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11019	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! High house! In the course of the reporting on the government clause yesterday, Walter Osztovics stated in an editorial of the "Kurier" that politics was in times like this especially economic policy. - I confirm that. I agree. However, I believe that it is primarily a matter of politics, to think in a comprehensive, networked and forward-looking way, and to have people in focus above all. If you break your mind about what people are doing in the economy, as it is about the people who have to find themselves on the available labour market, then the thought of diretissima goes into education – and therefore also directly into education policy. In recent times, there have already been approaches to the fact that education policy is finally re-established. However, this is not because of the responsibility of the education politicians responsible for it, as we do, but rather because of the needs arising from the nature of the matter: on the one hand, from the acceleration of progress, which also includes a reduction in the half-life of the current knowledge. This is indisputable, and it must be responded to. This has its cause in the labour market, which clearly shows that there is a direct link between work and education, and ultimately in the financing problems, especially as regards the teaching budget. Let me start with the last point. If you look at the financing development in the teaching budget, you can find that this has doubled over the last ten years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] Mr Marizzi! This is precisely the problem that the SPÖ and the ÖVP do not recognise the urgency of the need for action in education policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you don't even recognize that in the face of this budget disaster, I wonder what you still know! But if you listen to me, then perhaps you will have at least an approach of understanding later, but I am not very hopeful if I order your comments so far. If you look at the budget development, you can see that in 1997 we already planned 67.165 billion schilling for the teaching budget. As I hear it, the Minister thinks that it is impossible to do so, and has already notified some 800 million Schilling of additional needs. As far as I know, the estimates for next year have been given with an additional need of about 2.7 billion schilling. And if you look at the study of the Institute of Higher Studies, you see that there are calculations that will require 74 billion already in 2000 and 88 billion schilling in 2010. This is a financing development, a cost explosion, which Mr Marizzi may no longer be able to pass in the future. I think that this would be justifiable if, as a reason, there were increased numbers of students or increased tasks. It is a fact, however, that nothing of all is the reason for expenditure, but that some 90 percent of the expenditure in the staff is put in a structure that does not address the new challenges at all – I am now saying "new" to you, but I am of the opinion that these challenges are not so new at all, but that they are being maintained in structures defended by a conservative teacher union, which means that the essence of a representative of interest should be to defend the existence and not allow anything new. Those who stay on the track are the young teachers, who in this way have no chance of being integrated into the work process at all, because when you look at the age structure of current teachers, you see that the next retirement shift about 2010. That is, we still have about 13 years of unemployment of young teachers, as is the case now – if there are no structural changes. I have to say that weighting shows that, for example, in the case of Federal teachers already have a fifth of the staff costs for additional services, additional services which we believe could be distributed quite differently, in favour of young teachers or for the recruitment of new teachers, if those teachers who currently insist on their acquis would be willing and you would be able to clarify this also to the trade union, or would have the courage, perhaps, without the agreement of the trade union, to deal with Parliament in order to regulate relevant provisions here. I can remember: In 1995, together with the former Secretary of State Schlögl, they developed various savings variants to reduce these expenditure dynamics. That was something that we supported at the time – also as an opposition – because we would have felt responsible for it if we had succeeded in making the same policy position. The teaching obligation should be increased by two hours, while at the same time reducing the teaching unit to 45 minutes. The additional services – that is what is especially dear to my heart – in the The area of higher schools should be abolished and the supplemental jungle in compulsory schools should be searched through. The number of lessons at the HTLs, currently up to 40 hours per week, should be significantly reduced. And – this is a cracking point – by changing the pay schedule, an overall flattering income curve should be reached for higher initial salaries. Mrs. Minister! None of these measures were only implemented in the approach. The result I have just mentioned is one with a cost explosion, but with no change, no structural reform, but with a holding on to old principles, which, moreover, do not benefit the children, the students, but only the teachers. And that is what bothers us because we know that the committed teachers who feel that this structure is equally anti-performance have no chance at all of getting paid off what they bring in more. We know that the young teachers are also on our side, and that is why we believe that a speech tube is necessary to support you – if you are prepared to do so – if you finally enter into negotiations to bring about a change. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is one point, and I have just mentioned the surface, so to speak, of what the funding is about; we will be able to go further into detail in the further debate. I believe that the second point is that the labour market is a reason for the need to re-examine education policy. I have to say quite openly: Of course, education is not a guarantee on a job; these times are over. But if you look at the numbers, you see a clear link between the risk of unemployment and the chance of employment and education. Almost five out of ten unemployed people do not have a vocational qualification higher than the general compulsory school; more than four out of ten unemployed do not have formal qualifications. If one then compares these figures with other educational degrees, one can see a thesis confirmed, namely: In the case of graduates of secondary commercial schools, the unemployment rate is 2.9%, in those of AHS 2.4 percent, in those of other higher schools 1.1 percent, and in those with a university degree 2.2 percent. That means: The thesis that education creates work is certainly proven by this – even if I admit that there can be no guarantee of it. But when you see these numbers, you have to ask yourself: How can we change our education system in such a way that we also meet this labour market? And above all, we must ask the question: What does our school, our school system, as we currently have it, actually teach? I would like to fully agree with Bernd Marin xxx, who in one of his comments recently said: "The school forms subjects." - I see it all the same. I have always described it in the same way as it corresponds to my state of feeling, namely that this kind of school wants to train especially to disciplined students – apparently in the right opinion in that case – so that they can be more easily disciplined later on. Of course, critical, independent people are more laborious than those – including in a democracy – who say yes. Our impression is that the current education system has a real goal of providing knowledge – but certainly not the formation of personality, because that could become uncomfortable. In addition, I think of an example that has recently been mentioned by us at an educational meeting, an example that an FDP politician has always used in the 1970s. I hate to beautify myself with foreign feathers, so I am also willing to indicate the source. It is the detailed example of the xxx cf. Gra Pavlov's reflections, which describe the situation in my opinion wonderfully. You know the Pavlov dog: It is about being conditioned that there is food in a ring sign. In this way, the saliva arises, and after some time, when it knows that this always coincides – eating and ringing signs – you only need to ring, and the saliva flow arises, without the dog having to eat. This example, based on our school system, lets you shudder, but I think it's true: Imagine what happens to people, how people who have been conditioned in our system for twelve years to learn on ring marks and then when an official is standing next to it. Similarly, our school system looks like it, and the behaviour of our citizens in a wide range of areas, if they do not succeed – it is not customary to make intermediate calls from above, but I am still happy to listen – to further their skills from my own point of view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] And we believe that the school itself does not contribute to this. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] What we think is that the school system should encourage and not discourage school, that it should not be indoctrined, but that it should be raised to question that decision-making and, through knowledge, determined people should leave these schools, especially that the enthusiasm for learning should be taught in school. This means a fundamental change in our system. As we have described this in great detail in our urgent question, I can now, as it were, limit myself to headlines, especially since a number of colleagues will also take the floor. First of all, it is for us: The educational goal must be redefined. We believe that a turning away from the pure provision of knowledge and facts to the formation of personality is the essential element of a change in these structures. We believe that this can best be done in a common school of between 10 and 14 years of age – with an internal differentiation. I also know here again the reflections of one half of this Parliament: The word "total school" has strangled every reasonable discussion in the past, an ideologically occupied term, in which one has no longer dealt with the different concepts and contents of such a model at all, how at all our educational discussion is determined only by these keywords, without then dealing with the contents. The same was also the case at the school of the day or at the school of the day before getting out of these ideological tombs and offering both and leaving the choice to the parents and students. But these were the typical marks of the previous educational discussion. In any case, we believe that the discussion on the common school of the 10 to 14 years old is necessary in order to develop personality in this way and to give individual students the opportunity to develop their skills and their levels of development according to their inclinations and thus to force and shape their personality in addition to knowledge. The third point we believe to be an important instrument is a comprehensive assessment of performance rather than of the points. I know, then there will be again – the colleague smoke-callat did this immediately – these reflections. There are no arguments, but only reflexes. They seem as if this is nivelliting as if it would make a performance assessment impossible at all. The exact opposite is the case! If you have ever discussed this and have read studies about it, you will have noticed that this numerical system from 1 to 5, used by different teachers, brings completely different results and that therefore there is no apparent objective comparability at all, even in objects such as mathematics. I honestly confess: I couldn't have imagined that. My imagination was such that I thought it might be different in German. But no, even in objects for which – apparently – clear criteria, you can find different assessments of different teachers in the scale between 1 and 5. – So come on. It is not with the argument that there would be a comparability, but not with a verbal assessment. On the contrary! With a more comprehensive performance assessment, which is not only the verbal in itself, but the one that, for example, will know what this is about by penning books – for example, those who have been concerned with it – through a direct performance template, there is an incentive for both students and students to be already on the labour market. Moreover, there is hardly any larger company today, which relies on a witness with any numbers but, of course, also carries out tests. The question is whether one could not save one if one had already a basis for such a performance assessment. In our opinion, such a holistic assessment of performance is an essential key to bringing another spirit into school. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The increased use of new media in teaching should be a matter of course; however, this is not carried out. The need for a closer link between school and the economy will probably not be disputed. Only: It is not enough to say that, but it is also necessary to take the appropriate measures. I believe that there should be more competition in the school system in this context too. That is, a promotion of private educational institutions seems to be very important to us. Only one aspect I would like to comment on: I consider the current privilege of religious schools to be unjustified. I believe that, as soon as they meet a certain standard and therefore also receive public law, private schools are treated equally and therefore equally supported by the state. A privilege of individual schools has no factual justification at all. Therefore a clear veto against the current state – and the desire for a change! But for all of this, a reform of teacher training is certainly necessary. However, this reform is not even discussed, Mrs. Federal Minister. And that's only one thing. You're missing! I think that the reform of teacher training is one thing, but there is already a certain spirit awakened before. In this context, I only recall the last discussion in which our educational spokesperson Maria Schaffenrathanrecht said that teachers should take a little more into account and also remind them of their responsibility for the success of their students, in the form that teachers should, for example, be available to students in the last week before school, namely those who have an examination. You, Mrs Bundesminister, have seen this as a reasonable proposal, but the teachers' union, on the other hand, has introduced a clear veto. As a result, you suddenly argued: Actually, you don't have to do that, because that's happening anyway. If this is really your argument, I ask you: Then why don't you tell me? Why don't you take care of it and press it now by saying that this is happening anyway in practice, so you don't need to talk about it any further? I say again: I already know that there are enough dedicated teachers – I know many myself – who really do so and who are angry about the current state precisely because they are thrown into a pot with those who sit under the cheese bell of a rigid system and are not exposed to competition and no pressure to do so. And for these committed teachers, who are already doing more than they actually have to do, who are disadvantaged to others in this way, we want to break a lance. I think this is very necessary, because this is also access to a response to the labour market, but above all to a right path and a right bridge to the future. For me, the relationship between language and content is always a very explanatory and a very obvious one. The fact that it is "schooling" means that it is called "schooling" is actually a sign of the attitude behind it. And that's what we want to break through. The school should not be the end of learning, but rather the opposite. Lifelong learning and adult education have so far treated you stepmotherly. These should not only be allowed and forced, of course, not only by legal regulations, but also by law. Society should develop from a teacher to a learning society. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11193	To answer the questions, the Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs has now come to mind. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11215	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It amuses me when suddenly it is said that the teaching budget is far too large if it is suddenly to be an accusation that it has doubled in the last ten years. In recent times I have heard that the teaching budget is too small, it should be much more inside. At any rate, I am pleased that we have this amount of our teaching budget, and I am also pleased that we have a good school with good teachers and good teachers. I believe that in the last two years, as far as I can judge it, many priorities have been set, especially in this House, which have been decided, in this House, which clearly shows that our schools are on the move that our schools are developing. I would like to mention the priority of autonomy, the use of new technologies in schools, the curriculum work, the compaction of curriculum in core and enlargement areas, the emphasis on the promotion of disadvantaged people, the promotion of talent, the reform of the polytechnic school, integration, decentralisation in the area of school administration, where major progress has been made, new forms of teaching and learning, the strengthening of project teaching and structural measures, both in the field of the hourly board and in the area of the organisation of the school. I would also like to make it quite clear, first of all, that: The attempt to compare our schools with the so-called Pavlov dog is an insult – for our teachers and for our schools. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I know about my own three children: The young people come out of school as well-strengthened people, not as subjects, but as those who have developed themselves, who are willing to develop themselves, and who, of course, are also ready for lifelong learning. The highest premise of our school is to develop the personality, and we have always put this personality in the foreground. Now to some general comments from you. On the question of teacher employment, it is clear and clear that teachers, like all other officials in the public service, work 1 793 hours a year, that these hours are partly teaching obligations, partly teaching-free but on duty. They also know quite well that the additional services in the school sector are not overtime as in an office, but that the additional services are necessary to cover the hourly tables. Especially in the last two years, we have increasingly employed young teachers to reduce additional services. As a result, it has also succeeded in reducing the additional services by one billion. A very great thank you is to be addressed to all teachers who have secured the success of teaching at our schools in the last two years despite the constant teaching budget with an increased number of students. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A word that is very important to me, to the request of Mrs Schaffenrath, that teachers should give support to the students in the last two weeks of school and be available for questions during the last week of the holiday. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: A failed proposal!]] It can be seen that the early warning system has achieved substantial success. For example, in Upper Austria, it has been found that there is about a third less than in the previous year. This early warning system includes timely guidance of the student, timely advice of parents and in-the-way guidance of various assistance measures. That's the number one. That means the early warning system works. Numero two: It has been clearly and clearly communicated to me by a federal student representative – he has also said this in a press release – that it is the fact that teachers can be reached in the last week of the holiday that it is the fact that teachers are preparing their teaching. There are no responsible teachers who come to school on Sunday and go to school on Monday. I'm asking you not to put something like that on the teachers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] They prepare for school, they prepare for the school year. I wonder why the Liberal Forum for everything and everyone wants to have a regulation, a law, a regulation, a decree, a decree, especially for things that work anyway. This centralism is totally inexplicable to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now on the individual questions. Question No 1: Prognosis of cost increases. Due to the teacher's age structure, the structural costs in the federal school sector increase by 3.1 percent in the year, and in the compulsory school sector by 2 percent. The total staff costs can only be determined by me if it is clear which salary increase is negotiated throughout the public service. That is to say, negotiations must take place for the entire public service before the overall increase in staff costs can be identified. The structural measures due to the age structure – prejudices, biennial jumps – amount to 3.1 percent for the German teachers, 2% for the national teachers. There are, of course, ongoing calculations of what cost increases are to be expected, and of course it is true that we are setting up structural measures to cover these cost increases. I would like to point out very clearly and clearly that, despite structural cost increases, we have succeeded in keeping the teaching budget or the staff budget within the same framework through reasonable structural measures over the last two years. Now to the development of the number of students. The total number of students in 1994 was 1 175 000, 1995 1 181 000, 1996/97 1 186,000. Long-term monitoring results: The number of students will continue to rise for a number of years, especially through the relocation of apprentices into the secondary school area. In other words, we expect more for this school year about 6,000 to 8,000 students, and for the next school year we expect more. But a long-term student forecast shows that the number of students will fall from 2005 or 2007 onwards, so that we will have to adjust to these declining numbers of students in our planning. Now on the question of the alleged increase in the teaching obligation planned in 1995. In 1995, no two-hour increase in teaching commitments was planned, and no 45-minute hours were planned. In 1995 we took other structural measures. We have made cuts in the hourboard for pedagogical reasons. The HTL hourboard has been shortened by one hour. Multiservices have on average been limited to the eighth level. An increase in the teaching obligation by two hours would immediately result in our having additional unemployed teachers. What it makes sense to have more unemployed teachers, I really wonder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] I have never made this proposal, and I ask you not to confuse with anyone else either. The next question is: the conversion of the salary scheme of Austrian teachers. It has been generally announced by the State Secretary that he wants to develop a new contract staff schedule. I think that's reasonable. Teachers will, of course, take part in all relevant discussions. That was to raise the initial content and then let the curve flatten in order to reach the same level of life. I do not think that we should be there, because teachers are the same as all other public servants. This reform of the service and salary schedule is thus being launched together with the public service. We have already put in place some measures. The calculation key for multi-services has been reduced. It has been lowered the calculation for the evening school teachers. So a lot has already been done. The question of Pragmatization must be discussed in general. Today, of course, Pragmatization is a certain value for someone in the state service. One must question the Pragmatization. It must be determined where it is sensible and where it is not sensible. There must be an open discussion, and the quality of education must also be ensured in the future. To conclude that the Austrian teachers are said to have a lower teaching obligation: We must finally make it clear that apples are compared with pears in many statistics. In other countries, the teaching obligation is only the hour that the teacher holds in the class, while the administrative hours are done by the administrative staff. Of course, a completely different number of teachers – students come out. That is to say, the teaching obligation of Austrian teachers is not at the top of Europe's teaching obligations, but at a good average. The same is true of the income situation of Austrian teachers. It is also in an average. I really ask you to pay attention: Multi-services are not included in the average income. And more services will also become less and less in the teacher sector. The different costs between students in the AHS and in the BHS are mainly due to the hourboard and also to the differences in equipment due to workshops and laboratory facilities. Overtime has already been reduced. This year we have a billion less overtime benefits to expect. We are continuing to occupy the overtime with young teachers as far as possible. There will also be further measures to reduce overtime. In compulsory schooling, i.e. in the primary and secondary schools, there is little more overtime. On average, it's an overtime. I believe that this is no longer a high number. Among the approximately 6,000 young teachers who seek employment. I think we could create a good basis with a early retirement model so that young teachers can enter school. The same is true of flexible working time models, starting from part-time work to the reduction of additional services. The initiatives have started, and I very much hope that you will support this model of early retirement with a discount. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Question 15: The additional services are already reduced as far as possible by recruiting young teachers where possible. It is to be said that Austria is on the European average, that the early warning system has already achieved success, that we will continue to observe and develop it, and that the support and assistance of teachers is increasing. I can show you this: "No follow-up tree through five early warning." It is already clear that a third of five in Upper Austria is only available because of this early warning system. I think that's a good success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The same applies to question 17. We have already stated in our laws that pupils can rise by decision of the class teacher conference, that they should not be able to repeat a whole school year because of a subject and that they will be able to correct their gaps in the next school year. On the question of whether it is reasonable that the reduction in value units and the reduction in lessons should be saved. I repeat: The reduction in teaching hours has been a pedagogical measure because the pupils were too burdened. The units of value are agreed by Austrian law and each country is assigned to the units according to transparent criteria. At the follow-up hours. To this end, I can only say that first of all, ask parents and teachers to ask: Is the child in the right school? If too many follow - up hours are taking place when it is too hard, you should also have the courage to choose another school. Secondly, we can see that our early warning system reduces after-sales hours. Now on the question of the different types of school. To this end, I would like to say clearly: Students in Austria are not classified in different school types due to unscrupulous criteria, but teachers are very well qualified to determine with their parents what a child is suitable for, and the decisions are then also taken in cooperation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The different inflows to the primary schools or to the gymnasium are a challenge. Austria still has more than 70 percent of the 10- to 14-year-olds in primary school. In the cities, in the agglomerations, of course, we are facing a challenge, and there are already several cooperation models that prove to be useful. In question 21, it is clear that there is no stricter austerity policy on the back of pupils, not in the future, but rather that we will greatly increase the quality of our schools by internal measures. In order to train teachers, I must point out that improvements have been made in recent months, namely the recognition of education at the educational academies at the universities. The different training, I believe, is also justified by the fact that our educational academies provide a very good education. So I don't understand why something should be changed. The different income development between AHS teachers and primary school teachers is simply in the length of the training, in the length of the study. Key progress has been made in integrating the new media. A contract with an Internet operator was concluded by the Ministry. In recent months, the number of schools integrated into the network has increased by 20 percent. We will have all schools on the network by the year 2000 and give all schools the opportunity to access the Internet. [[call at the Liberal Forum.]] All the schools, I said. That's 6,800 schools. There are also all compulsory schools. That's where we have to work with the countries. I think it is very good if we reach this goal. Austria is a leader in networking in the field of modern technologies in Europe. I should like to point this out very clearly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now on the issue of life-long learning. I am surprised that it is always claimed that lifelong learning must be a purely central issue where the ministry must do everything. I really wonder why, in the field of adult education, one does not trust the countries, not the individual providers, why everything and every one of the state has to do. I think that this is an old thought that must finally be concluded with. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that in the field of adult education, the Federal Ministry has directional competence and promotion competence, which we naturally perceive. The direction competence is also commented on by the fact that we have installed an adult education advisory board that will indicate the direction. We will also adopt new funding directives with transparent criteria for support. We will decide on the so-called partial right in the coming autumn. This will provide the opportunity for schools to offer adult education services. I very much hope that you will then also support this partial right with your votes. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that school and education are, in addition to economic and social matters, the most important task of politics, school and education must be a concern to all of us here, and school and education must be a broad responsibility. The Austrian schools are absolutely good schools. This is documented by international studies. Half a year ago, we learned that Austria is 9th among the schools of 10 to 14 years old in mathematics, natural sciences and under 41 countries in the world, and today the news has come that the Austrian public schools are ranked one in Europe. [[Bravorufe and congratulation with the ÖVP as well as congratulation with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think that this is an opportunity to note that politics is giving the highest attention to schools or to education. Many innovations have been launched in recent years. Teachers work hard with what I would like to thank them for. But there's still a lot to do. Let's do it together!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11334	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are going into the debate. The speaking times are limited by 10 minutes. First speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11362	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! - Oh, I'm sorry! Mr President. High house! Mrs. Minister! I was really uncomfortable with the quality of your answers. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] You really shouldn't have fun at the fact that we're an increase here... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] You know, you are just the Austrian school system and its educational goal: the subject, the unqualified, the unqualified. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] Now back to what I actually wanted to say: You should not be surprised that we are criticising an increase in the teaching budget. We don't criticize that. We criticise the fact that only because of the personnel cost explosion, based on unwarranted privileges, will there be unforeseen increases in this area without any improvement in quality. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I also do not want to praise all the many responsible teachers and teachers, and I know that many of these people take their task very seriously. But it was you who contributed to the fact that the work of these people cannot really be assessed. They have just said in a "standard" interview that it would be bad business style to judge teachers' achievements. To this end, I can tell you: With this basic setting, every entrepreneur in the economy would probably go bankrupt. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But now to some of your answers; unfortunately, I don't have much time at my disposal. They said that reasonable structural measures could prevent a budget increase. I really wonder what was reasonable about that. There is a linear reduction in value units, a deterioration of educational conditions in our schools, a rapid restriction of education, an increase in the number of students. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: What do you want?]] The situation in Tyrol is certainly well known to you. This already leads to extreme educational disadvantages in the area of the AHS upper level. If you say here that a reduction of the teaching unit to 45 minutes while increasing the teaching obligation would mean a greater number of unemployed teachers, then I must escape: That may be if, as you do, you only put in place pure savings measures without structural changes. We want additional units of values to improve the educational conditions, to include new content, to reduce group sizes, and we also imagine continuous promotion of those students who have problems. Here, to refer to the reduction of – I would like to say almost obscene – privileges, such as the reduction of hours in the evening school sector, I think, for this privilege, which has provided income of over 100 000 s, was no longer sustainable. You even had to see this in the last episode. I do not think we compare apples with pears if we draw the teaching obligations in other countries into a direct comparison. They have forgotten to mention that our teaching obligations are also reduced beyond corrective hours, over discount hours and over different values. If you think you can get the young teacher's situation under control by reducing overtime in the last episode, I'll give you the right. We too stand for a consistent reduction in overtime. But unfortunately the union opposes that. It is not long ago that the President of the Council of State Schools, Burgenland, has written out 70 new posts, I think, resulting from overtime, and that the teachers' union was not too bad to take action against the Staff Complaints Commission. She prefers unemployed young teachers, more young committed teachers on the street than having to resign overtime privileges. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They also said that with our figures of repetitious and repetitious women we would only be on the European average. That's not right! We have an absolute peak, and this peak costs the public hand several billion schilling year after year – despite the proven inadequacy of being able to catch up on learning deficits. It was actually your own statement before the last school reform package, as you mentioned it, that the class teacher conference is most inappropriate to find out about the uprising of the students. It was your own statement in the context of a "Press" interview in which you found that there are quite different criteria, starting with partitions up to and including possible personal preconceptions, giving the result. Today, as the only appropriate means to re-establish the class teacher conference, I think that it is a very rapid change in your personal opinion. If you always, when discussing the quality of the teaching, come up with the package statement that you have to ask yourself whether the child is also sitting in the right school, then teachers will also have to enjoy the question of whether every child is actually taught by a good, responsible and competent teacher. We can't do this that easy. Teachers will also have to have a performance assessment in the future – with all acceptance of their commitment and with my greatest respect for their performance – that is, a performance assessment which has consequences and which may also lead to a change in the remuneration system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] At present, we have a great deal of security; the Minister has already pointed this out. We currently have the following situation: The next biennial jump is definitely coming, and otherwise a teacher or a teacher cannot actually pass much despite insufficient performance. Ladies and gentlemen! If today the Minister has addressed the excellent assessment of the folk school, I would like to say: I'm glad too! But especially the folk school is actually the bad "left one-pot school", as it would probably be said by Mr Höchtl, that school which in the third and fourth years with the help of internal differentiation has produced very good achievements in the 9 and 10 years. A year later, the selection takes place, one year later we split up, a year later we divide into groups and thus provoke even repetition rates, provoke curiosic school careers, produce high school dropout rates, and all this also causes costs in billions of heights. But they adhere to these old concepts, and this costs billions; billions of people who will be missing in the last episode to be able to carry out necessary reforms, including in the field of lifelong learning, also in the field of new media in schools, which are far from present enough. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I cannot spare you the accusation that you have always received great announcements, which in fact only follow very few actions. There are great announcements, the call of trade unionists, reduced proposals, and the reform approach remains null and void. That's what I call reform populism! This goes beyond the needs of the students, which goes beyond the wishes and concerns of the parents, and this also goes beyond the demands of society and the economy to the greatest extent. I would therefore ask you to let your major media announcements follow.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11444	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11466	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Last weekend, the Liberal Forum held a very interesting meeting, as I said, and focused on education at this meeting. I think this is very commendable and can tell you that I have looked at the draft of your education programme and have found that there are, in fact, interesting approaches and considerations that I would very much like to discuss with you. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: The Kohl has said emancipatory and therefore anti-state!]] It seems to me, however, that you will notice a number of visible differences in your program to the school in Austria, which has grown historically, and I assume that you will derive from it a urgency and therefore act to deal intensively with school today. I believe that the National Council should deal very often with education, and I think it is positive that we are talking today about two, three hours and two, three hours tomorrow about school, school measures and education. I'm very happy to be there. But here I would like to maintain the basic position of the SPÖ. I believe that the Austrian education system – and this is indeed a great deal of research – is quite competitive in international comparison. All the studies known to me give a good witness to Austrian education. But I believe that the image of the Austrian school is very often – especially if you want to criticize it – a little distorted. But you can actually do that with every statistics and with every picture. Let me take an example and, in the near future, a few points that have shaped the development of our education in recent years. We have recently created much more opportunities for our schools to co-determination and much more possibilities for democratic decision-making. We have expanded the rights and possibilities of the School Forum and the School Community Committee in close proximity to any revision of the School Organisation Act. We have developed the school autonomy directly. In particular, we have introduced new forms of teaching and learning in the primary education plan. In addition to the frontal way of teaching, more child-oriented forms of learning have been introduced, such as open, project-oriented, discovering learning. These are in themselves those approaches that aim exactly at what you want in your program. In the school of 10 to 14 years old – you may not be aware – the project is currently running "new learning culture". This is about motivating students to learn in a rather difficult situation, namely in the field of skilled teaching, to lead them to self-responsible learning, to motivate them to learn, to provide more learning skills, to learn techniques, or to give pupils the opportunity to learn them. I would remind you that, in the field of vocational school, we have introduced German and Communication and Live Foreign Language as a new subject, that we have integrated vocational education into the field of secondary education and training, that we have created the School Education Act for professionals. Tomorrow we will decide on the professional maturity test law, a new and, as I mean, interesting opportunity for apprentices in the future. In addition, we have opened the polytechnic course more closely to professional orientation. We abolished the admission tests at the vocational school. In fact, I do not see a threat to Austrian education and I cannot help saying that we have to face dramatic failures. A strong signal – the Federal Minister has already pointed out – was the continuation of integration in primary school also in secondary school, in the lower level of the AHS and in primary school. It is not yet running – starting in the school year 1997/98 – and it will not work from the beginning, but these are processes that cannot work 100% from today to tomorrow. More teacher training, intensification of teacher training and training are necessary, then it will go. We are also currently in an intensive discussion on the redesign of the school book action. We are also very likely to discuss including new media in this action, giving the schoolbook a different, certainly no longer so dominant priority in our school, because it is technology and new media that keep it in class. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, you can never – and I would like to say that with all the emphasis – be satisfied with the achievement of education. There are changing processes, further reform processes are underway. Let me just address a few of them, I think, particularly important here. I think it is urgently necessary – and we have also stated this in the Coalition Agreement – to tackle a flexibilization of the school entrance phase. It is in the primary school sector, in the phase during which first organised and controlled learning takes place, to develop the basis and to ensure that lifelong learning can at all take place that learning is seen as something positive, that learning is seen as something free. We will do our utmost to ensure that schools of 10 to 14 years of age can be set up throughout the country. It must be possible for the law to be accepted in the future if teachers, parents and students of a primary school and an AHS come together and choose, in democratic form, to want to implement such approaches, it must be made possible by the law. In fact, it is not wise to make such important school career decisions so early. We also want to extend the tasks of the vocational school. The revision of § 46 is a concern for all of us. We will also strengthen vocational orientation and vocational preparation in the curriculums of the 7th and 8ths. The school level of the primary school and the AHS is mandatory. Thousands of teachers in the field of the 10- to 14-year-olds work in Austria on the "Teaching Plan 1999" project, initially with resistances, in the meantime, as I mean, yet very dedicated, with the aim – I have already pointed out – to teach independent learning skills, learning techniques and key qualifications based on the child-friendly forms of teaching and learning of the primary school. They work on content areas; today, insulated subjects of teaching are brought together into fields of action and learning. This, but also through the installation of new technologies, is intended to achieve more close to life, and all of this serves to ensure the project, performance orientation, quality assurance and personal development. Of course, we need further development in the field of teacher training for all teachers in full academic form. We want a binding teacher training, a uniform service right and a corresponding remuneration. We cannot accept, and I say so quite openly, that there is such a large number of negative benefits in school. The forecast 80 000 "not enough" cannot be accepted. The repetitious rate must be lowered by the fact that not every year thousands of pupils leave compulsory school without completing primary school. In fact, there is a need for action here. A whole set of measures will be needed to deal with the reform of performance assessment. Mrs Schaffenrath! You accuse me that I would not have approved your request to rise by 'not enough' in the Committee on Education. I'll tell you: This request has nothing to do with the reform of performance assessment, and the Pens Book is not the reform of performance assessment. I mean, reform of performance assessment means thinking about how we want to define school performance. Do we want any questionable knowledge? Remarkability? Are we concerned with personal learning growth, goal achievement, independent learning, behaviour in the team? Do we value the ability to help others? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] How do we watch that? What criteria do we measure performance? How do we maintain performance? In the secret notebook, or is it somewhere in the class, visible and comprehensible to all? How do we make the feedback to the student, how do we make the feedback to the parents? [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] As I said, We too want and will develop the school further, and I know that our coalition partner is also ready to push forward with reforms. We are in a permanent process of change. Let's work together. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Enjoy!]] Let us strengthen the most important resource of our state: our children!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11531	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11552	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, we're sorry about the liberals. [[Lively calls to the Liberal Forum.]] Since they have been planning a huge appearance for days, trying to make a urgent request that specifically deals with the "years of failure" – well noticed! – show in Austrian education policy. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Please feel sorry for yourself!]] On the same day, Austria is flooded with reports reporting the results of international comparative studies: 500 000 pupils who have been studied show: Austria's folk students are number 1. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be expected that such results will be presented, not by the Federal Minister, not by the ÖVP, but by the coalition partner, but by an institution called the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Well, very nice!]] It is therefore an appropriate international association to assess the success of education. This is for Mr Haselsteiner, who is excited here and who may not be able to speak English properly, but who has learned it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] It is quite easy to criticise Mr Colleague, but to allow such a Lappsus to show the corresponding "year-long absences" and to have to experience such a medial downfall, that is a failure of the special class – not of the Federal Minister, but of the Liberal Forum! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Don't be so excited!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! One could almost say that it is not so much the failure of the education policy of the two coalition parties. The real reason for the urgent question being put by the Liberal Forum is that you have simply fallen asleep in the improvements in the education policy of recent years. [[Cheerfulness at the Liberal Forum.]] We need to give you further instruction on what has happened in this regard. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum! If you had listened to the list of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, in which autonomy, the improvement of the financialability of each school – the partial right, an essential point, only the completion of the additional expenditure – was mentioned, as well as the curriculum reform initiated, the field of pedagogical, organisational, financial autonomy. There were some benefits! [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] We will decide for the first time tomorrow the Matura for apprentices – really a breakthrough of permeability in our education system. So that means: We have to use your urgent inquiry to finally bring you what you have been sleeping in the last two, three years, in the course of the Beant word. This is the task of your urgent inquiry! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now I go into those points a little closer that you have been trying to treat as great highlights since Saturday. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Please!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Highlights!]] It is quite funny that this urgent question does not at all deal with a subject which is said to have been discussed at the heart of this Education Forum of the Liberal Forum. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That can only be Bishop Weber!]] - Guess right! There has not only been a two-hour discussion at this educational forum on the abolition or non-absorbing of religious teaching, but also the first speaker, Mrs Schmidt, and the second speaker, Mrs Schaffenrath, have come together in a heated dispute, as a result, the debate on religious teaching had to be postponed from the first day to the second day. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is new!]] There's been a fight vote. So: On the one hand, to go out, to demand personality education, and on the other hand, to the object that has contributed very much to value education, to personality education, namely to the abolition of religious teaching, that is to say, Chuzpe à la Liberales Forum, and that certainly will not help us! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You can see that at the pillow!]] Second issue: Nuts. There have been some comments from some journalists over the last few days about what you have done there on so-called educational policy. They meant that they had always believed that "liberal" was for more performance and for the assessment of performance. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Yes!]] In doing so, your system, your vision is to send everyone in the same school, the students are not to get grades, the teaching is to be abolished, and all are likely to be equipped with appropriate academic dignity from the outset. If this is liberal, ladies and gentlemen, then you can continue to steal us with your education policy and your proposals as well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We say a clear yes to a system of assessment of performance by notes. We are ready for an addition by verbal notation – we are willing to do so – but, ladies and gentlemen, we want to do away with something for which 80 percent of students and teachers are, that can only be a Liberal Forum. As an Austrian People's Party, we certainly do not say yes to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You are simply not a contact person!]] Third topic, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen – Mrs Schaffenrath has tried to prove herself as a prophetess in this regard –: [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: You are unfortunately not serious to take, colleague Höchtl!]] Total school. – Mrs Colleague! I probably need to show you some ideological shifts here that you have tried to develop in your so-called visions on Saturday and Sunday. Do you know what the relevant stakeholders in Austria are thinking about? You know that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] More than two thirds of those concerned say that they are committed to a structured school system in which the choice between primary and secondary schools should continue to be maintained. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You weren't so diligent at the university!]] More than two thirds! You from the Liberal Forum probably do not even know what your own voters think, because among them too is a massive majority for maintaining the divided school system. That is, as in many other areas – from homosexuals to crucifix debates et cetera – you have no sense at all of what your own voters think. A urgent question would be addressed to the colleague Schmidt: How long does the Liberal Forum last if you continue to make such a policy in these areas? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: But in the context reform we have distinguished ourselves, Mr Deputies!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In these few years, we have repeatedly expressed our willingness to engage in intensive discussions to improve the Austrian school and education system. We are always ready to do so. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Especially when it comes to abcashen!]] In these two, three years under the direction of the Federal Minister Gehrer, we have done much together with the SPÖ. The catalogue on what has been created, which has been improved, is quite extensive. The fact that the benefits are also internationally recognised is a sign to us that not only the political frameworks are well set, but that the 120 000 teachers in Austria are really committed to education policy and practical education, and pupils and teachers are committed to their achievements in accordance with their efforts to find out what their talents are all about. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are trying to use what we have achieved as a basis, we are also trying to face the challenges of the future education policy. But such proposals, which you even make as a urgent request, do not help further in education policy. This should be written to you on the occasion of your urgent request in the main book!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11857	Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner has referred to an actual correction. Please make comparisons with the facts to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11882	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höchtl, whose competence is more in connection with double references than with educational questions, has here claimed that the first speaker and the second speaker had had a strong dispute at a party event. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Correction!]] That would be nothing bad for itself. But it is wrong. In contrast, Mr Höchtl, to the ÖVP, where probably indoctrinated at such events from above...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11908	Mr deputies, please correct the case.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11924	That's wrong. An open discussion, as it is usual and desired at the Liberal Forum – yes, you hate to hear that – has nothing to do with the command issue in the ÖVP. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11966	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11987	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höchtl, you have forgotten to mention in your remarks on ethics lessons – perhaps because it is relatively difficult to explain why this occurred – that in Vienna in the first district and in Liesing district, a school attempt is under way with ethics lessons, which was launched with the approval of ÖVP Vienna. [[Aha-noise with the liberals.]] [[Calls at the ÖVP.]] You should have said this in your remarks and explain why the ÖVP in Vienna has agreed to these school attempts, thereby torpedoing religious teaching. You should have explained that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the other hand: It is true that our public schools are very well rated, but sometime after the folk school a hole opens up. And this hole is about this hole in Austrian education policy, which means that today far more than half of the students do not complete their studies. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to think about it. And I believe that it cannot be blamed on teachers, and that is why we will not participate in the liberal criticism of teachers up to the teacher’s hatred. Rather, it is the result of a decades-old red-black education policy that is responsible for the present situation, with the teacher, with the student and with the parents today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All parties are also confronted with the attempt of this 68-year-old generation to introduce the entire school through the back door, faced with the continuing levelling efforts that have partly been successful, and faced with the results of wrong choices, such as the abolition of the admission test for the higher schools. What was the result? – Over time, there have been more and more inflated classes in the general education of higher schools and an increasing need for teachers, while the number of students in the primary schools has fallen and fewer and fewer students are facing more and more teachers there. This leads to major problems, so that many teachers only have to sit down and be paid for sitting, without having the opportunity to teach at all. This wrong path has brought us these problems that we are facing today. This wrong path has degraded the once good primary school especially in the agglomerations to the rest of the school, to the rest school with a negative selection with which we have problems today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We need to talk about this now. They have set in motion a spiral with the introduction of the entire school through the back door, which we do not have the effect of today. There have been reforms against any pedagogical reason, especially against any principle of performance. I am surprised that you are not in school for compliance with the principle of performance, too, where You ask for it again and again in everyday life. We have lost sight of the principle of performance in many school issues. Many reforms in recent years have disregarded any need for performance, thereby, I believe, raising the false awareness that qualification can be achieved without effort, without achievement. And in some cases this is true in practice, considering that at various conferences it is discussed whether a student can be examined whether he can be dropped or whether one should be afraid that the classes will then be put together. Not what he can do is the assessment criterion, but: If classes are grouped together, are other teachers at risk? – These are the criteria that are decided at the conferences today in schools. And you are also responsible, ladies and gentlemen. You won't be able to disappear over that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is true that the education schools in general are overcrowded, and by abolishing the admission examination, we now have the problem in the higher education schools that the admission is enormous. We have too many teachers in the primary school, we may now also get too many teachers in the upper levels of the gymnasium, but we have too few teachers in the higher education schools, and that in a teacher-student relationship that seeks the same. This is in Austria 1: 8. There's nowhere else in the world! Nevertheless, we have the situation that we have too few teachers in certain schools. There's something wrong with that, Mrs. Minister. There you have to consider how you can fix this. And what is the result of this lack of education policy? – They have produced a maturant sponge that today overloads the universities, and nobody knows how to master the problems at the universities. Professor Skalicky, (right) the chairman of the Austrian rector's conference, said yesterday that he was confronted with more and more students who could no longer meet the minimum requirements. And the drop-out quota, which is over 50 percent, impressively confirms that you have gone the wrong way in education policy over the last decades. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the other hand, we are faced with the situation that fewer and fewer firms are willing to recruit apprentices. For many other reasons, it certainly also plays a role in the fact that hardly anyone who has once attended a first class of a gymnasium is willing to take the path of apprenticeship training. That's why the teachers say, of course: We do not necessarily want to have this in our company, apart from the various laws that make apprenticeship training difficult and difficult for teachers. So that is – I really say it as dramatic as it is – with a few exceptions, only a negative selection of teaching places is applied. This is a problem which is also due to this lack of education policy. The experiment field school according to the motto: Every left teacher's experiment and his experimental rabbit! has failed. It has escaped the sorcerers, it is Scholten, Busek and unfortunately also you, Mrs. Federal Minister, escaped. It has also become unfinancing to an increasing extent as one hears – and I agree – now. Nevertheless, reforms which have long been due, for example in the field of school administration, are waiting for them. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'm curious when you're dealing with the huge savings potential in the state school councils, in the district school councils. They are still broken because the red and black proportion also celebrates joyful originals in savings package times there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There would be a time to save! There are huge potentials to be saved: the Presidents, the Vice-Presidents, the Vice-Presidents and everything there is. I reject the fact that now that the pressure is increasing, teachers are made a scapegoat alone, as we have tried here again and again; also by the President of the Vienna City School Council, Mrs Schmidt. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: The politicians, not the teachers!]] [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: The politicians, Mr. Colleague!]] The sole responsibility lies with those who have created the framework conditions within which teachers must act, and these conditions are clearly red-black in color. We do not need to discuss this further. [[Congratulations on the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you: What has actually changed in the age of more and more rapid changes to which teacher training should respond? [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Nothing!]] Teacher training and teachers have very little to do with each other. There we have teachers for AHS and BHS, who are hardly pedagogical, hardly psychologically trained. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] Of course we still have that. In teacher education and training, these circumstances are hardly taken into account – especially not at university level, you know exactly, Mrs. Brinek – although the tasks of teachers have multiplied in the meantime and have become very differentiated, very different. Many demands are made on the teachers. Parents and society are moving many areas to school, but we are unable to prepare teachers accordingly so that they can meet these requirements. [[Call to the ÖVP: You must not close yourself to others!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What about, for example, the reform of the Timetable? You mentioned some example here, Mrs Federal Minister, but that was not a comprehensive reform. The overall composition is obsolete. We have an indiscriminate side-by-side of traditional subjects, as well as multiple repetitions of the teaching material at lower and upper level. Cross-border and interconnected education on the acquisition of key qualifications is more likely to be the exception. Because there is still no comprehensive reform of the Timetable and the bureaucratic obstacles to all of this required teaching have not been reduced, because the curriculum has not really been reformed, so in reality the school has to struggle with so many problems and then create this frustration for all those involved. Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised, however, that the Liberals did not respond to such content as they demanded and promoted on the weekend. You didn't deal with ethics in your emergency class. I would have liked to hear who should teach what content and where that one should be trained. What happens to religious teaching? All these are questions you should have answered here.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12150	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12171	I would like to close with a quote that we should all write behind our ears education is not to lower the ceiling, but to raise the level. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: The Lord Höchtl above all!]] – I believe that if we act in this sense, we will be able to deal with some problems.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12210	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12231	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is difficult to discuss such an extensive topic in 10 minutes only in the most important aspects, but I will try to get some central points out. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who changed the Rules of Procedure? You've changed the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you see how that is!]] Mrs. Minister! Your answer didn't convince me, but I still started with a praise: I find it amazing and welcome from the opposition that you were among all the ministers of this Federal Government the only one who has called for a very important place for a very important area: There must be more resources in there! I agree with you. I think your attitude on this question is quite welcome – also from the opposition side. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: The question is just what for!]] Now, however, the criticism is coming, Mrs. Minister. If you say today in your opinion that those students who need many supplementary lessons probably chose the wrong school type, I think that this is a reasonable answer. I think that is why I measure them because you know just as well as I and everyone here know that the power weakness in a particular area – whether the language is, is mathematics or any other subject – is far from really saying something about the qualification and performance of the person or the person concerned. If we discuss school and educational reform, we must probably say goodbye to the picture of school that we have carried with us from past years and decades into the new age and that the qualification has already been achieved if a certain subject canon is taught and within this subject canon certain things are prayed down year after year. I am already in the criticism of what you are trying to discuss on the subject of framework curriculum, nuclear material and enlargement material. I looked at this in a subject in biology. I was interested because biology interests me. I still find in the nuclear material of biology that the student or the student must know about the inner structure of the worm, about his cell structures, about his physiology and and as much as we did when we learned 30, 40 years ago. This is not an indication of modern learning. There are other areas in which more is being tried, but I would not necessarily call this the progress of education policy. I will come back to the debate and to Mr Höchtl's remarks, because, out of his waiting, of course, he has praised the great successes and, as a supposed certificate of achievement for the policy of the ÖVP, has led to the great successes of the folk school in an international comparison. Mr Höchtl obviously does not know that the primary school is the only school type in Austria, which is de facto an overall school, a common school of all learners from six to ten years of age. And despite this common school of all learners from six to ten years of age, we find very good performance here in the international comparison. We, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, would like to see what is true of the public school, and obviously also as a certificate of service, also apply to the ten- to fourteen-year-olds. We also call for a common school for the ten to fourteen years old. We think this makes sense, and it has been correct and important that the Liberal Forum in the question has pointed out the costs of this school system, this externally divided school system, which differentiates between primary and secondary school, and what bad effects it produces. Obviously – and this is also evident from the international examples, but Mr Höchtl, in this context, did not quote the international comparison – all countries can have good experience with the common school of the ten to fourteen years old. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That's not true! That's not true! That's stupid!]] The question is just how to divide it. That's what we know. We no longer only know the external differentiation, but we also know the inner differentiation: And we confess to that. We think it is right that the internal differentiation of schools is further developed. But external differentiation is a major obstacle, Mr Höchtl. It does not prevent her, but it is a great obstacle because it makes this internal differentiation possible only under the dictatorship of the scarce cash registers. That's the problem. This external schooling, which you are so defending, costs us a lot of money. We could have a much more effective, much more efficient school system in the interest of the students if we were to orient the school a little more after the students, if we took a little more into account the inner differentiation, the inclinations of the students, the design of the schools according to their particular requirements and so designed the schools accordingly. That is also the point where I am probably different from the Liberal Forum. We are not concerned with the competition between schools – the diversity of schools is announced. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: How do you want to achieve this without competition?]] But I can also achieve the diversity of schools differently than through competition. Competition always produces strong and weak, and the question is: What do we do with the weak? The competition delivers them mercilessly. All compensatory offers are of no use to us, too, or very little. Competition always knows the inferiors. We need the diversity that refers to the special abilities of the individual students and tries to promote them. There are amazing achievements – in which we are certainly once again of an opinion – also in the field of so-called disabled or weak students, if you are only able to promote their skills within the framework of the school. And precisely in that is the lack of this school, which tries to beat everything over a performance. This is the great error of Mr Höchtl, who believes that a common school would produce these scarce pilots, these joint performers. That's not true at all. There are enough examples for this. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: It is about promoting the weak and demanding the strong!]] That is why we are Green, Mr Höchtl, for the promotion of private schools. I'm just telling you one thing: This promotion of private schools can only take place under the circumstances that private schools must meet the same criteria as public schools. In my opinion, a private school which requires tuition cannot be promoted by the state, it cannot be promoted to a private school which does not allow for the same access to its school. There must be something like an obligation – in the insurance industry this must be called the pressure to contract – that everyone should have access to this school. If these conditions are also guaranteed for private schools, we acknowledge that private schools are also promoted. I think that makes sense. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Then the state should pay for the buildings, please!]] One point, ladies and gentlemen, because this will probably mean a major debate over the next few months: the scale of hours, the burden on teachers and everything related to it, and also the LIF's request. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Liberal Forum!]] In my opinion, the average of 31.9 hours, which is done, does not say anything about what actually exists in the individual subjects of stress for the teachers. The major problem lies precisely in the fact that this definition of hourly quality does not by any means express what is done in the individual subjects. If I know, for example, that the value in subjects such as gymnastics, sports et cetera is 0.95, in subjects such as German and English, so-called learning subjects, on the other hand, is 1.3, then I also know that this value, which is specified and measured at the level of 20 hours, does not in any way take into account the actual loads and differences between these individual subjects. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 1,6! I don't know!]] Mrs. Minister! That is why we ask Greens – and I have actually hoped that this kind of very unhappy or unfavorable debate about the Teachers' Guide – that the labour burden of teachers will actually be evaluated differently than it has been in the past. I think it unbearable that teachers should always be accused of the extent of their hourly burden, that it can stand as an accusation in the room and that teachers must then, on their own initiative, argue that they have to carry out preparatory work which is not at all taken into account in this hourly dimension. I think it is unbearable that there are groups of teachers – and you certainly know that just as well as I do, Mrs Minister – who, of course, are very good at this kind of hourliness – I can call these teacher groups you know – but at the same time there are teachers who get away very badly. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] So we have, Mrs. Minister...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12379	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12394	So we have a lot to discuss in the future. The problem is more complex, you can't beat it over a leist, and I hope Mrs Minister that you will not hold back in your commitment to the school, but also for the school reform, in which you are often inhibited by a union. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign the other day]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12431	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12452	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Höchtl is the chairman of the Committee on Education. That is why I am saying this from the speaker's mouth because I assume that some of the listeners in this hall who do not belong to the High House should simply know that. You should know that Mr Höchtl, who is the chairman of this House's Committee on Education, has expressed himself very self-evidently to our position on questions of values and children, on questions of ethics, and at that time apparently has not even known that (a) a school attempt has long been launched in Vienna, and (b) in Vorarlberg, the home country of the Federal Minister of Education, will be carrying out a relevant school attempt in three schools from autumn onwards. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You mean ethics, Mr. Kier?]] So it may not be that it makes no sense to deal with this question, and I am now completely in the house of Mr Höchtl to have his position as he has it, because I understand that he prefers to be oriented after a bishop rather than according to his own conscience. Today we will still experience whether he obeys his Christian conscience in the vote with the foreign laws or whether he obeys the party's reason. It'll be exciting. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Little exciting at the Höchtl!]] We believe that such living examples simply show that it is useful, even in school, to convey to the children the discussion of values and the development of their own values, as a subject of instruction, which is also accessible to the need. But that was just one aspect, and I am pleased that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, to our last Federal Forum, which lasted almost two days, sent one of her most important employees out of the cabinet and was there able to get to know our documents and our reflections on education policy as a whole. He must have taken her home too, and perhaps this has a long-term effect. However, I do not fear, as long as the following statements of the Federal Minister are valid, which have certainly been correct: that the staff costs of the German teachers increase by 3.1 per cent per year, by the end of the year, by the period of time, by means of advances, by bees. This is not the access of the liberals to decent remuneration. This is clearly what I am saying, because we have very differentiated and very self-confident access to the criterion of performance, and I am now linked to the labour market. Why – among other things – are the number notes such an enning? They are a statement without information content. If I have to work as a consultant for companies, the witness that someone brings will not help me at all, because it contains numbers, but this is a coding that I cannot decipher. I don't even know what he did, what he really can do. I have to evaluate this even in the interview and in more complicated processes. The note doesn't matter at all. If, therefore, the Liberal Forum calls for other methods of performance assessment to be introduced, that does not mean that we do not want to set criteria, but that we want to have those that are not only understood if one has any statistical table for decoding. In addition – and this is very important in this context – these notes are also the confirmation by an instructor that a particular goal has been achieved by the person he himself has trained. That is, the instructor tells one-sided what has come out. But he also evaluates his own work. That is why we believe that it would be very useful to assess the quality of teachers as well. It is not the case that only the pupils are judged in the long term, but the trainees are not. That was the reason why my colleague Schaffenrath, among other things, put the proposal into the room, that during the last week of the holiday, one should take the instructor into the duty to assist the trainee in the examination so that he can make better use of them. This was first of all pleasant to the Federal Minister until the trade union called for it to go too far, perhaps one should go to the service a week earlier. – The Federal Minister has said today that there are teachers who do this anyway. We know that too. Of course there are these. In the end, however, many others who don't, they're thought to be depressing because they're only coming in the last minute. Therefore, it is the task of a service provider – that is in this case the covenant – to ensure that he reminds the service provider of his duty and, if necessary, to call him to make him appear. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We know that this is not particularly easy in the field of schools. After all, the Federal Minister has said a very sage sentence in her reply to the question: Teachers are just like all other public servants. – I noticed that she did not even have the idea that this might be too questionable. Does it necessarily have to be that someone who teaches the student is in a public service relationship? [[Abg. May. Peter: It was always like that!]] Does that have to be like that? Can this only be an official, or should we not consistently prohibit private schools, because there are no officials there? – I guess the Minister of State does not mean that, but she says: That is the state that has been found, and with that one must find himself. That is why the urgent request concerning decades of failure was more than justified. But if you just find yourself with such things and don't even notice that there are already quite different dynamics in the working world, then you are not able to reform. I say "for decades" consciously and do not mean the Federal Minister. I know that it has not been in office for so long, but the Austrian school system has gone into a two-thirds trap. They know that this is a matter which They can only change by two-thirds of a majority and therefore have been paralysed for decades by forced coupling. Mr Höchtl also defended the divided school system and led the folk school to prove it. That was already mentioned. It's not the folk school. It seems that he wanted to give the impression that these are any elements of qualification that can be seen there. I tell you, there are studies on this, and I just have one from Vienna in my hand, which analyses the change from the primary school to the primary school or to the AHS. Statistically, it examines the criteria for children from one and the same folk school – one has summarized several schools, one has done a representative study – to go to the primary school or to the AHS. What is the significant feature? – The social stratification. The lower the social stratification, which is defined according to sociological standards – that is a serious study – the higher the proportion of children in primary school. This is therefore not a sort by any qualification, but it is a sort by social access. It's a school thing that's not liberal. If I let the ten-year-olds down their social environment on education policy, then I must not be surprised if certain social skills are missing later in the working world. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It is so to speak presented to them from a small point of view, "who once eats out of the sheet metal" and that is not good for the social skills, but also for the social competences of those who are in the AHS. This is one of the reasons why we demand a common school for the ten to fourteen years. But it is also a logical consequence of the knowledge of the working world and of real life. We need team-capable people who do not want to be exclusively among themselves, perhaps according to the motto of Joseph II, who, when the Hofadels complained about opening the Prater, said: If I did not let the Prater open for such reasons, I would only have to stay in the Kapuzinergruft at all, I wanted to be exclusively under my equal. – This is not what we want in education! [[Cheerfulness at the Liberal Forum.]] We want children, when they grow up, not to be torn out of the social reality of normal life. This will also be employees that we can later need in companies. We can't just need loud directors and chiefs. We need a healthy mixture, and above all we need something, namely the possibility that everyone in this society can rise. For if not everyone can rise, then we will not exploit our talents, but we will have to exploit our talents, otherwise we will not exist in economic competition. We will no longer be able to afford social policy. I hope that we will not have to afford a President Hoechtl anymore. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12542	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12563	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Kier has made many years of failure, and perhaps another speaker will come, and then it will be even longer. Today we're talking about a school that's not a mess, just like you are, we're not talking about a school that's an ideal type. There's nowhere. No party can realize itself in school policy in such a way that it can say: This is our school. – But we are talking about a lot of good data, and a feature, especially when discussing education policy, it would be that one tries to start from the facts. We are talking about undisputed investigations that the parents are very satisfied with these schools. The rating on a scale from 1 to 5 is between 1.7 and 2.1 – depending on the type of school. That is a good thing on this scale in the assessment by parents of children who go to school. We have international rankings, which have already been mentioned several times today, whether in the natural sciences, be that in the languages – that is in progress – be that in the public schools. These are undisputed facts. We are talking about equipment with new technologies, which is exemplary worldwide. We are talking about a degree of co-determination in our schools, which can be improved, but many countries and many parents in many countries would be happy if this level of co-determination were to exist. We're talking about caretakers, we're the top guys, we know that. You can see it like that. I see it positively that we have many teachers per student. We have an above-average payment of teachers. I don't see that negative either. Mr Schmidt, I should like to ask for your attention. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They mentioned this link between education and the labour market. You made it yourself. On the other hand, we should also consider the fact that we have a relatively low unemployment rate - the second lowest in all EU countries after Luxembourg - and that we have the lowest unemployment rate in young people under 25 years of age after Luxembourg. The opposite conclusion is that we have a good school system which prepares our young people very well and very well for the world of work and for society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can only stretch the guidelines of further development in the near future. The starting point should also be that which is an international state of scientific research. The starting point for reforms must also be an intelligent change. There are two central approaches to this. One is that the individual must be more prominent in the school of the future than before. Not the school class, but the individual child needs to be seen even more clearly. The second is that, in the work of the teachers, the team can be more and more seen, not the individual fighter in his class, but the team responsible for the class. These are two very important basics. From this point of view, it is about freedom of design in schools and responsibility for this design of the school: teachers, parents, students who are involved. School autonomy, partial rights and forms of education regions are some of the keywords I can only mention. It is about changes in the structure. I also say this quite consciously here, because today we are also talking about school-political concepts of different parties. We are also concerned with the common middle level, the common structure. It is about an even better coordination between higher education schools and vocational schools than we have at present. These are reforms in teacher education and development, summaries, pooling of resources, and they are all about inclusive solutions as we have addressed them with the disabled, but how we need to meet them even more, for example, between polytechnic courses, vocational schools and middle-schools. It is about more inclusive solutions than before, including in the field of vocational training, in which a joint training could take place for about one and a half years, before specialization begins on one of the more than 200 teaching professions. It is certainly also about measures to combat failure in schools. That's not a question. This is also a central European programme. The European Union has already presented an impact on documents that we cannot escape, which we must actively participate in, so that our schools "produce" fewer drop-outs than before. As coalition parties, we have undertaken a very committed and ambitious programme for these next few years. One thing you can be sure: School and education – from pre-school to life-long learning as an adult – have absolute priority for us. This is primarily about the quality of the school and the quality of what is taught at the schools. But it is also a matter of increasing awareness in schools not to worry, not to fear in school policy, not to insure people, but to give confidence to teachers and students. I would like to conclude with a sentence by Hartmuth von Hentigs, the Nestor of German Education Policy, who meant: The central point for schools is to strengthen people and clarify things. – And this is only a matter for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12636	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12657	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In view of what has already been said, I try to focus on a few, as I mean, essential points. I would like to reject polemics, but already in space, allegations by the applicant, namely from the Liberal Forum, which are largely aimed at cheap dramatization, apparently based on personal individual experiences and lead to flat-rate accusations, to unswerving simplifications and ultimately to a very narrow, small quote cartel to convey the appearance of objectivity. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Are you speaking now as a politician or an educational scientist?]] - Yeah, I'm on it! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Then you must say as what you say!]] Keywords: Total school. School systems each have a specific history, including the Austrian one, in contrast to the British one, the American one, the German one and so on. In this way, our differentiated system is still equipped with a very large support of the population, and it is very difficult to explain why this system would be replaced by another. I would like to refer in the defense of this system, which is differentiated according to external and internal criteria, for example, to the sociologist Matthias Horx, who is invited by you and us, who refers to a further pluralization of society and to a related further differentiation of education and culture systems. – Matthias Horx. Yes, I really quoted him, Mr. Ollinger! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] If Mr Oellinger believes that, in view of the rights of the individual to be promoted, it was about internal differentiation in an overall school, which would ultimately be cheaper, he does not agree that this form of consideration of the individual talents, as he calls them, is actually more expensive than a school world arranged according to standardized profiles. I would like to point out and can also prove it by numbers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] It is also interesting that the reform states are thinking again of the further expansion of the long form of gymnasia. You will think about it and not just copy the bad models from Austria. Keywords: Note. Again, a penetrating repetition of allegations does not continue. I'd like you to say, You must first prove your thesis. - I'll bring him! A formal note between 1 and 5 also gives every student the chance if you want to hide behind this note. It is not obvious, as in a verbal feedback and in an individual assessment – for example: Pupil X once again has not joined the class community, he still has to practice reading in such a way... – the student is protected from personal disclosures. [[Intervocations with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Do you tell me, Mrs Colleague, how you want to develop a differentiated feedback system for 200, 300 students without falling back into a very subjective, subtle, incomparable assessment in floskels and without in reality returning to a very subjective, subtle, incomparable assessment? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this science is in disagreement, and I can say that as a scientist as well as a politician. As long as I don't have a scientifically secure better model, I'll stay with the one we have and that's the highest satisfaction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] They should consider from the Liberal Forum whether totalitarian and centralist provisions that inhabit your concepts actually correspond to a modern education policy overall concept. Verbal assessment is not the last conclusion of wisdom. It is, however, possible at any time under current laws, i.e. school education law, school organisation law, provided that teaching is cooperation and a dialogueal relationship. She is also practiced – thank God! – and, of course, it can also be expanded. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] In this respect, we also hope for the competence and profound training of teachers. Keywords: Teacher costs. If you can find out a little about what has been implemented in recent years in reforms, you will notice that this has been done with the number of teachers, the intensity of teachers and the relationship between teachers and students. If you criticize and say this, not in teachers, but in devices and other things we should have invested, then go here and say that! They also know that the increase in initial salaries and the flattening of later salaries are in reality more expensive now. I would like to remind you that, otherwise it may not be taken into account. Teachers are currently also working – in so far as I think, the policy discussion is not yet completed – together with service providers and staff members on a teacher working time model. Mr Oellinger, I can say that this debate must be held in detail. But teachers do not understand the discussion when they are each pushed into a corner in which it is said that they are schmarotzers, they are the ones who only have to do with non-adults. This gives rise to a special "flame": Teacher, what is that? – Teachers only have to do something with "small" and this does not move at the level of large economic figures or facts and technical devices, but more in the field of speech, listening and producing creativity. This is, after all, a social competence to be defended again and again. In more difficult times, because of the overall accusation, teachers have to justify budget bloating for increasing access to education and educational institutions. I think that we should do wrong to teachers and that we should focus our attention much better on other things. I think we should observe that the school is becoming more and more, bigger and more tasks. The following concerns have been addressed to the school: Problem solvers should you be in question when the number of road fatalities increases when the cases of dental cavities are in progress, when sexual traffic starts too early or too late, depending on the level of values; and how the tennis racket is to be handled, how the personal computer is to be used, such as knitting needles or medical balls or other competently "handled". At the same time, teachers are confronted with increasingly inhomogeneous parental expectations. In fact, due to this differentiation in the school system, we have to differentiate even further, form other differentiated elements or expand existing ones. For the future, I would like us to focus on the solid and internationally proven data and feedback, that we take scientific results as those they are, and that we also take counter hypotheses and countertheses seriously. I would also like us to support teachers, if they are teachers in the good sense of the word, but not in the "old pauker" sense, not in the sense of an old drill school – this one is put down, it has turned reform pedagogy aside 100 years ago – but if they are teachers in a modern democratic sense that defends the self-esteem of the school and does not have to be measured constantly in their educational and pedagogical skills with department stores, flirts, discos and other funny places, where it is really only about feeling comfortable, being "in" and the like". In fact, the strong, modern, emancipatory character of education is going to flow. And I don't want that for the teachers, and neither do the teachers want it – neither for their students nor for their parents or for their ministers. I would like us to work out the value of the school more closely. I think that the proposals for reform suggested and implemented by the Federal Minister Gehrer show that we are on the right path, both in the sense of a balance sheet and in the sense of a preview. We will continue the debate on education tomorrow. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In addition, dialogue is what cannot be initiated and implemented with allegations. In this sense, I point to a very modern school theory, namely the one that represents Hegel, on the one hand, and on the other hand to the basic principle of dialogue to Platon, on the other hand. If you want to, continue reading there; unfortunately, I have to close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12769	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12791	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Or I'd better say, Mrs. European Master? They enjoy the criticism of the liberals at the teaching budget. I can only say: God will give you your humor in view of the future budgets in this sector! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it would be up to you to take up the early warning system of a constructive opposition opinion on this subject instead of digging into an overestimating self-devotion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What are you doing?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This was an international investigation that led the public schools first!]] The evaluation and the results of this study will not be questioned. However, it must be assumed that, in the first place, the Federal Minister cannot rely on her flags and attribute her system to her success, especially in the field of folk school during this period of government, or say that we should almost nothing has happened. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: First, Mrs. Gehrer was a school teacher, and second, she thanked all the teachers! Stay a little bit with the truth!]] I congratulate the Federal Minister for her work as a school teacher! Perhaps it should have allowed it to be used, at least in connection with the reservations you have now called arrogant, in relation to these questions. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Arrogance is not an argument!]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Antoni has spoken of a reformist stand, Dr. Khol, if you have missed it. He has mentioned a total of 12 reform efforts that are pending, for example: School associations, life-long learning, school entrance phase, et cetera. He has certainly addressed areas of which we cannot say that they are done. Dr. Khol! You should also know that in a few weeks more than 50,000 students will not have reached the class goal. They are stamped for failure. More than 200 000 will be transferred to the next class with the help of a flourishing pepper industry, namely after-aid education, and will often have to bear additional loads through follow-up checks. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A third less in Upper Austria! Have the elegance to acknowledge that!]] I understood. The idea of the early warning system can certainly be recorded on the home page if it takes effect as we have heard here. But the fact that more than 50,000 Austrian students will not reach the class goal remains – even if you call it arrogant; the numbers will prove it – and 100,000 teachers – and for that I guarantee myself! – After the last witness they will have distributed, they will leave their now unloved school and will not waste any thought of their profession or possibly their training for the next nine weeks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not right either! It might be with you!]] Dr. Khol! Dear Mrs. European Master! You need to get your knowledge of this topic from personal discussions with the affected people. Get It is from the main tables, but not from beautifully decorated directorial rooms and conference rooms. Do not talk to the student representatives in your protected environment, but go out to the students. Believe me – and also believe the Liberals with their criticism in the context of this request – that there is a lot in this area! Significantly – Mr. Dr. Kier also mentioned this – is indeed the freezing of the world of thought in connection with education in view of the national situation that urgently requires decentralisation, deregulation, the autonomy of schools. Look a little beyond the borders! Competition is strengthened under EU conditions. How is our education system equipped, how are our schools equipped in view of this situation? They will also have to admit that among the 6 000 expensive, excellent young teachers who are currently out of work on the road, a further 2 000 will be added in a few weeks. It is not a light for this group of persons with regard to a position in view. An army of administrators and school supervisors will use the teaching time on extended holidays and to compensate for their overtime, i.e. to compensate for their hours of service. The Federal Minister will have less time for this, because a budget must be created and a third package of savings must be attached, and this will, as can be heard, go at the expense of our schools and also at the expense of teachers. It is noteworthy that this urgent request leads to a Hatz on the part of the teacher. This is unexplainable for me, because teachers can be made responsible for this unloving situation as the last one. They have been trained under conditions tailored to the 1960s and 1970s. The age structure of our teachers also means that they simply do not get to grips with the requirements in different areas. I know this specifically from my field of work, the education of the body. The training of the body's educators has been carried out mainly in the field of instrumenting or athletics – things that can no longer inspire students in the face of emerging trends. The equipment of our gyms and sports facilities has also remained in line with the criteria of the 1950s and 1960s. So there's a lot missing. We liberals do not believe in the liberal panacea of the general school and not in a positive effect of the abolition of the score, but very probably in alternative point systems and compensation assessments. We think a lot about privatizing the system of teaching, the autonomy of schools and, above all, the debureaucratisation. Make school administration slimmer! Don't have to add a black one to a red District School Inspector! The same applies to the country. The army of specialist inspectors is quilling over, and their functions and competences are to be questioned. There is also a demand in this urgent request which refers to the promotion of subjects and provides for an educational check. – In addition, the demands for freedom, as Mrs. Dr. Schmidt knows. On this basis you can think further. On this basis of the promotion and the needs for our students, not so much on the supply of the system and its maintenance, we can continue to work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12923	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12944	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The urgent question relates to education policy as a whole and to the shortcomings there, but mainly to the school sector. I think it would be important to look at the education system as a whole on this occasion. I think it would really be devastating to let go of a development, which is only because there is a rigid automatic system in the public service, which leads to cost increases, that perhaps in the future only the areas of repressive administration at all: Police, military and similar, public service remains, while everything else, because there is no willingness to reform there, is "knocked out" from public expenditure. I and my group do not wish for us a state which sees as a public task in the narrower sense only repression, but not the tasks of the modern, performing, social state. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One should be ready to deal with traditional traditions. There is a frightening development which you too, Mrs Federal Minister, have shown: The cost increases of 3 per cent, without anything being achieved to improve the quality of the school, without ensuring that young teachers find better employment opportunities, and without the school becoming more democratic, open and promoteable, is, as I believe, a development that is no longer to be overcome and is no longer to be sought. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have heard your proposal to create an incentive model for teachers to retire early, creating jobs for young people who are young. Although we have our doubts as to whether this is really possible, I think it is at least a debateable proposal that should be followed. In fact, I would expect you, Mrs Federal Minister, to make a contribution, with such advances within the government, to the change in public services, to the change in income hierarchy, to improving opportunities for young employees in the public service and also to a general reduction in working time. If school is a model for changes in public service, I find that positive. However, I do not think that it is enough in view of the current situation if this is a small, behaved model, which, apparently, has not really come to light within the government. Mrs. Federal Minister! There will be They also have to deal more closely with the staff representations in the public service, because from there I have heard little reluctance to this greater solidarity with young employees in the public service and the general need for a reduction in working time. However, we urgently need these. I also think that we need more money in the field of education as a whole. This is the most important public investment. Of course, this money should not flow into automatic cost increases through biennial jumps and similar. Overall, it should be a progressive political concern to invest more in this area, not only because we believe that this is a basic democratic requirement – better-trained people are more politically manipulable – but also because it is calculated. A comparison: Finland has not pursued a savings policy in a similar precarious budgetary situation to Austria in the field of education. – On the contrary: The educational budgets have been very, very clearly expanded. With this offensive education policy, Finland has succeeded in bringing the international rankings of the economic locations from second place to fourth place. In the same period Austria fell back from place 11 to place 19. And I'll tell you: This may well have to do with educational investment and a very unreasonable government policy of linear cuts. Mrs. Federal Minister! On the other hand, you have partly set yourself up in your area – but only in part. This has not happened at all in higher education. If you look at the university budgets, you notice that there has been an increase in higher education budgets since the 1970s, including all inflationary phenomena, by 60 percent, but the number of listeners has quadrupled over the same period. That is, we have 3 percent reductions per year and per student per year. Unfortunately, this is also very sad at the ranking of Austria's economic location. Mrs. Federal Minister! Another thing: If we complain of the following, and if now by your party, partly but also by representatives of the Socialist Group, the argument comes: The opening up of universities has not really led to a full equal opportunities of socially underprivileged shifts!, I ask you: Is that a reason for turning this process into the opposite? Would it not have been better to ask why this strategy of opening up universities did not really benefit the socially underprivileged but only partially? – This has to do with school once again. No one needs to believe that, after many years of division of the students into different casterls and grid schemes – according to social criteria; this has been said here several times – these differences then, when these young people become full-year old, disappear at once. The differences in universities are a striking argument for us to have to establish a common secondary school for all children in that country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Perhaps the problem is not solved yet, Mrs Brinek. But to do the opposite, to rely on elite education and consciously to purchase that women, children from socially weaker shifts, host workers' children and so on are being discriminated against only makes the problem worse! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It says again and again, we learn for life, and I hear from all companies how urgently they need socially adaptable, team-powered people. And then all of a sudden we need a school of casterl and grid, a class school in the sense of social class differences? – That is really illogical! If there are elites – I don't want to use the word "elite" at all, it's very, very negative for me – if there are actually decent achievements, that is, top performances, then the top performance should be in the sense of social qualities. That doesn't slow down any student and no one student intellectually even somehow! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Indeed, both intellectual and social qualities could develop better. I am speaking from experience, from many years of experience in the field of education. On the note discussion, I tell you the following: In Austria, about 50 children are killed each year – with a good part of it, the notes are to blame. I think that a single child, one such incident, must be sufficient to challenge the whole system and establish a new, humane and absolutely performance-enhancing education. – But you take care of your two-thirds majority, so that only far-reaching changes do not happen. – That is infinitely sad!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13050	Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13072	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to draw your attention to several points. Latin: Latin is a currency that seeks the same. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: your equal!]] – yours, excuse me! – It is not questioned, for example, that the Latin is considered necessary as a requirement for higher education, but that is determined by the institution that sends it. Mrs. Federal Minister! I was also one of those affected and can tell you that I did not become a better or worse doctor because my Latin knowledge was polished in the first and second semesters. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: I'm sure you didn't get hurt!]] I do not think it is necessary for you to determine this, Mrs Bundesminister, but rather to do so to those organisations or the study committees which are affected by it. I believe that this should be a new consideration – also for performing geometry and Greek. With regard to the notes: What does that really mean when someone's "good" in a trade? – Is he "good" because he has put forth a great deal of effort and perhaps lacked sufficient knowledge in a sub-area, but the effort has been in the foreground, or has the current knowledge been in the foreground, on which there has just been a "two", but the one or the one who has not striven at all and has the ability to be much better? A note that doesn't actually express anything is something arbitrary. It would be much better for the students if they were told clearly: Watch out, tighten yourself, you can do much more! Or you could just motivate them and say: We know it was a great difficulty, but the first step is taken, we congratulate – and that's why you don't get a "four", but a "two". – That would be really motivating. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Mrs. Colleague! As far as the EU is concerned, I would like to talk to you for a longer time. I was in a school system – no Austrian, admittedly – where we had this note, we were judged with comments, and it was of course that one could improve about performance and not only was knowledge used as a criterion for a need. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Comment is okay!]] I believe that we have not done badly with this system and that there has been something from my former colleagues in the school. With regard to the EU: In the EU there is the so-called SOCRATES programme, which includes higher education, school education, foreign language learning, open education and adult education. With this program I connect a desire: So far, projects for approximately ECU 1 billion have been submitted. 1 billion ECU for a programme to be devoted from 1995 to 1999 is actually not much – perhaps you do not know – compared to 1 billion ECU, which is used in the EU for tobacco cultivation per year. The EU spends ECU 2 billion on tobacco cultivation in the year. A programme, which should be the largest in the EU for four years, is not spent as much as 850 million ECU. Ladies and gentlemen! This is currently being discussed in the European Parliament, and the vote will take place tomorrow. Who won't be there? – Mr Swoboda! Mr Swoboda will sit in a coffee house in Vienna tomorrow during this vote and make a press release. If this is to be a motivation for the social democrats to take education policy seriously, that if the programme needs support from the whole Parliament, the spokesperson of the Austrian Social Democrats after Vienna "pastes" to put himself in the coffee house, then I really do not think this is a serious process! Just point this out to him! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! They have said that the use of the new technology in Austria is exemplary. I have come to know in America what is going to be done there, especially by Al Gore, on the integration of new technologies into schools. A computer per school, with a network access, is really not enough to say that Austria is an advanced nation. It is ridiculous to believe that 30 Students will balk to have a net access perhaps 45 minutes a week. That's what I want to look at! There may be two students who will become really familiar – and everyone else will play in the background because they are not sufficiently busy. It would therefore be our chance to join us in a truly great start, because we have been in arrears with regard to technological development in this world for 15 years. In this respect, Mrs Federal Minister, do nothing – except: A computer per school is enough. - That's not enough for us! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, I would just like to address the following: You have quoted from international studies reviews that Austria on the one hand is very good and on the other – those you do not want to apply – is very bad. The average number to be completed by a teacher per year in lessons is 709 hours. The standard working time for an official is 1 763 hours. So between the normal working time of an official and that of a teacher, there is a difference of 1,000 hours. It can be said that at the beginning of the course, a teacher needs a lot of time to prepare himself to sort the materials in order to find out his methodology of teaching. I think that is also legitimate, but it does not change anything. He then has a certain routine – you get a little faster in every profession with time. However, this is not taken into account at all, but it remains: 20 or 23 hours a week are enough, with perhaps only five hours in preparation. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] Excuse me for starting the last sentence. Mrs Bundesminister, we could really change this: We should support the young teachers more in this direction – and then, if they get routine, we could increase their hourly number. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13167	The next speaker is Mr Rada. The still available speaking time is 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have read very carefully the text of this urgent request; very precisely because, on the one hand, I believe that there are very remarkable approaches, but on the other hand, I have missed the urgency – except perhaps in terms of it – in order to assess it positively – that we have shown our students, students and teachers just before the end of the school, how important we take the question of the school. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: This is an interesting approach!]] As a teacher, however, I would like to reject two things: first of all, that school is training subjects. Anyone who claims this today is invited to attend a school. In fact, our students behave quite differently – in no way as subjects, as one might imagine by the conventional term. Secondly, I would like to point out that the final evaluations would be such that "class geometry" is true. This is simple and simply not true, which is and is a violation of the dignity of the teachers, because the teachers take the question of assessment very seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If most of the time has been used in the debate to discuss the school area of the 10 to 15 years old, this also seems to be proof that there is a need for action and that problems that need to be solved have been identified. I fully agree with the chairman of the Christian Teacher Union, Hermann Helm, who, in the last issue of the "compulsory school teacher", demands that the primary school and the AHS sub-level be equal, which is a logical requirement. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: He meant that only financially, not content!]] We have word-identical curriculums, we have different local circumstances that invite us to a more intensive visit to some form of school. I'm just wondering: Why do we even need this selection? It is not enough for us to have a secondary level 1 where the relevant needs of our students are covered in order to be better suited to the heterogeneity of all the abilities and abilities of the students. I would also like to speak in this area for the form of internal differentiation. We have noticed that the outside of the primary school does not lead to objectives. Today, the folk school has already been praised and presented in such a way that great things are done there. There is this inner differentiation, and it works well. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! A problem is still particularly important to me personally, namely that of the unemployed young teacher. It cannot be that, although we need it, we do not stop it just for cost reasons. These young teachers will move to other areas, and they will not be available to us at the latest in 2010, then if we need a large number of teachers, if today's 40- and 50-year-old teachers will retire. Then it will be too late to train enough teachers in such a short time. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Education must be of value to us, which is why we also need teachers for the various educational measures. Reasons for costs must not be the only argument for not recruiting these young ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13242	Mr Schuster. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 7 minutes speaking time is available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13263	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Forum makes a urgent request concerning "years of failure in education policy and cost explosion in the school sector". [[Abg. May. Peter: So far, Mr. Cot!]] Let me begin by quoting a few passages from this distributed written urgent request: "The Austrian school system is not just behind these developments, education policy has been stuck for decades and blocked by various factors. The Austrian school and education system, if it can still exist in international comparison and the training of our youth continues to take place at a high level, has not been the result of the education policy of recent years, but has been achieved despite the education policy of the large coalition that has been ruling for more than ten years," et cetera, et cetera. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: You still have to let us! That was important!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The contradictions in this distributed document are insurmountable. It is interesting that this educational policy took so wide space at the Liberal Forum last weekend in Upper Austria, in Linz. From my point of view, education policy is more than just education policy: It is social policy, it is future policy and family policy. The people's students are stars, the best people's students in Europe; some have already quoted this, and we can read it in newspapers. High house! Is education policy in Austria really so bad that a single "shearing pile" remains, as some speakers from the Liberal Forum have tried to present here? Or: There are not at least areas where you can say: Education policy in Austria can be achieved, but it is in any case in need of reform, and there are wishes for improvement?- Oh, my God! – Could we not understand that? So far, I am missing this approach, Mr Peter. [[Abg. May. Peter: Nice talking you do! We have to show up problems!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the following has been clearly demonstrated by all speakers and also by those quoted by the newspapers: The Austrian children are the top of Europe, and in those countries where parents learn with their children, the children are also the best. Education policy, education policy: The most important educational institution remains the family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In spite of Mrs Schaffenrath's interlocutory calls, Ms Gehrer introduced a government proposal in respect of professional maturity examination, which was decided by the votes of the two coalition parties in the committee and is being negotiated here in plenary tomorrow. This is a very important area, an area where in the second course of education the right to visit academies, colleges, universities and cetera can be obtained. Mrs Schmidt made some essential demands at the Liberal Education Forum in Linz last Saturday, and I would like to mention some here: the abolition of grades, but a comprehensive, written student assessment. Those who talk to teachers on this subject hear again and again: Please, what if a recent survey in Upper Austria shows that the children themselves have 80 percent of the population and do not wish to have a written, comprehensive student assessment? [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Is that your idea of responsibility?]] Next point – the Federal Minister has clearly specified this in her reply to the question –: Mrs Schmidt spoke of the withdrawal of the state from schools. You could think: Privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in conflict with your own party programme. The Liberal Forum's party programme – I quote – says: We therefore insist on the State's obligation to establish and operate public schools. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! The next point: Introduction of Ethics. Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum! As long as the Austrian People's Party is in the Federal Government, there will be religious education in schools for so long – whether you like it or not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] High house! In conclusion: Education policy is very comprehensive, it needs ongoing corrections and improvements. Let this educational policy turn from this coalition: in the hands of a Federal Minister Gehrer and leave the education speaker of the Liberal Forum where she is, in opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13362	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. The speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13383	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Very common is heard in Sunday speeches by politicians: The youth is our highest good. – That’s all right, a very important content. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] – I’m young too, that’s the difference between us both. – The question is, and I ask these very often: Why is your group so sloppy with this highest good? An example: A friend of mine runs a fire festival factory and has been looking for an apprentice. There were two high school graduates, and a HTL breaker, to whom he gave a cube and a ruler, saying: Determines the volume of this cube. – None of the three did this thought sports task! Ladies and gentlemen, that should give us some thought. I may also take this failure back to nervousness, but essentially to the point that the school has increasingly become an experimentation field in recent years. They have been overloaded with tasks, and essential content has been lost. Where is the constantly required evaluation of the teaching contents? Teacher reforms have been discussed for years. But they stayed away. On the contrary: In the very positive pursuit of more permeability of the school system, proven structures are blurred, the intended transparency has given way to an inconsistency. There is a kind of political activism taking place, not sufficiently debated laws, such as the law on professional maturity to be decided by the coalition tomorrow, which is not adequately debated. It is precisely with this law, ladies and gentlemen, that hope is placidly awakened in the young people who will not live up to it, because often inadequately prepared people will eventually fail at the universities. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Teacher education and training is not yet adapted to the actual requirements and procedures. Teachers are trained according to traditional methods and, as you know, in proportion-occupied training facilities. Almost in every capital there is, of course, a black and a red training center for teachers. They will then, because they are too many, unemployed as we have heard – 8 000 will be in the summer – and if they finally get a post after several years of waiting, they are unfortunately no longer up-to-date. A binding and systematic teacher training and further education, with a focus on course during the teaching-free period, has not been done so far. In contrast, the methodological and management requirements for teachers are constantly increasing. Many teachers are often exposed to increasing demands without support and supervision, and the burn-out syndrome is becoming more and more teachers. Mrs Minister, where does the school bill remain? Where does the reduction of the procedure and the objectivity of the school managers' orders remain? How does economics thinking in the school sector actually look? – From the last Court of Auditors report, only two sentences. On page 243, the following point 2.2 is added: "The RH did not consider the provision of the cost reduction for national teachers to be either economic or economical." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This sentence alone speaks volumes. If some pages are further noted that, for example, in the Styria of the Federation alone, 5.1 million Schilling paid for 3 110 units of values without receiving a return, then you have to think about it. Why is that happening? – Well, because the teachers employed in the Matura classes actually do not have to carry out any more tasks after the Matura and then continue to involve their salaries. Would it not be an idea to use these teachers for the promotion of students in the last weeks of schooling instead of using them for supplementary lessons during the last week of the holiday? Then all vacations would have been quiet: the parents, the students and the teachers who could be used there. This Court of Auditors report shows many weaknesses in the administration, in the administration, where real costs could be saved. Costs should not be saved in the so-called operational field, but in the administration or, better said, in the ministry. Finally, I would like to express my deep concern at the fact that you are not really so much concerned with real reforms, but with the maintenance of the proportional system and, as we say in Styria, the "post chess". [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Not just in Styria!]] I'd like to tell you: Finally, the students will stay on the track and more and more also the no longer motivated teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13431	The last speaker in this debate is Mrs Krammer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13452	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Dr. Schmidt, with all appreciation: I think the urgent one today includes a certain populism. We have really worked intensively on this issue – why just today? [[Abg. Marizzi: That's right!]] I'd like to say something about what you said. There's a lot of things to do, but I'm really stuck with one. They said that the children would have been damaged by the bell signs they hear for twelve years. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: I didn't say that, Mrs. Colleague!]] This leaves Mrs Schmidt to the conclusion that you think that teachers are only quite damaged, because they hear this for a whole professional life. – Thank you! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A real scratch!]] For verbal evaluation: What will happen – and I appeal to all teachers – in the verbal assessment? – Rolls will come out! There will be the saying for "Very good" and the saying for "good" because you can't do it differently. So, please, let's stay on the ground of reality. Mrs. Dr. Gredler, how do you really imagine a school business? How do you imagine teachers? They have made all of them sound serious, unless I have misunderstood you that the students get their note – and that's the point. People talk – imagine! – with the students, there is! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Sometimes, the good ones!]] The teachers discuss with the students the notes, they talk to the students when they threaten to fall down towards "not enough". [[Abg. May. Peter: Why don't all teachers do that?]] To Mrs. Dr. Petrovic I would like to say about the student suicide – unfortunately she is not here, but she will be in the club, I suppose, listen –: Teachers are not responsible for student suicide – there may be exceptions. The pressure that comes from the family is often blamed because some parents send their children to schools for which the children are not suitable. Let us stay on the ground of reality, please! That's the truth. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You know, I feel like every year, like the swallows come back and the storks into Burgenland, the teacher's hat comes to the end of the school. Otherwise, I can't explain what you put on the table today. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] One blames the teachers for, for example, the fact that a child runs away from home because of school failure. Who's to blame? - The evil, evil teachers. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Maybe the teachers too!]] A "not enough" is called the arbitrariness of the school. I beg you, this is unfair and unfair! I'm in school, Mrs. Schaffenrath, look at a school. I'm in there, I know how many worries the teachers worry about. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Me too!]] You don't make the decision easy, please believe that! – Mr. Dr. Pumberger, stay with your business, of which you understand little enough, please do not interfere in the school! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] [[Cheerfulness and new applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But Your colleague Grollitsch would be right for me – I am on the microphone, I am the luter – if your colleague Grollitsch were here now, it would be nice. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Mrs Colleague, that is why you have been dismissed as Minister for Health!]] No, I volunteered, but do you know what my greatest performance as a Minister of Health was? – I held the Pumberger as committee chairman! [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to say something to Dr. Grollitsch. He spoke about the early warning system, and I heard that he said – I don't know, to whose address – that you may be asked to listen to the inn table. – Well, please, Mr. Grollitsch, take a look around at school, that would be something new once! Listen to the early warning system! [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There's someone so loose talking about the early warning system. Dear Professor Grollitsch, do you know the "not enough" your students have? Do you even know? Your students from the Montanist, do you even know how they look? I doubt it! [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Let us remember how much substance it takes for teachers to exist six to seven hours a day before critical 14 to 19 years of age, I say now. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: But these are only three days at six hours!]] That means highest concentration, that is, no uncertainty, and that means never losing patience. I do not want to underestimate the work in an office, but office work and teacher work are not comparable. A teacher must always be present, he can't say today I'm bad, today I have headaches, I can do the act tomorrow too – students are to be taught. With all due respect to reform, ladies and gentlemen: We must consider reforms because the recipients of the reforms are our biggest capital: our youth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13650	There is no more word message for this. This debate is closed. Short debate on the response to the question 2225/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13671	We are now coming to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs with the order number 2225/AB. The answer to the question has been distributed. A reading by the writer is not sufficient. We are going into the debate. I would remind you once again of the time limits provided for in business regulations: That honourable Member, who, as an applicant or co-signatory, is responsible for this debate, has a speech time of 10 minutes, all other Members of 5 minutes. Comments from members of the Federal Government or from state secretaries should also not exceed this time limit. I now ask Mrs Rossmann as an applicant for the request to open the debate. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13706	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! In your answer to the question regarding the presentation of Austria's advertising at ITB, you have pretended that everything would have been fine, as if a great presentation of Austria's advertising had taken place – without pans, without complaints and so on. You have kindly given me the statutes – thank you very much, but I have already had them in my hands – and one thing has clearly emerged from the fact that you also have full responsibility as the chairman and president of this association. They are also responsible Minister for Tourism and Obmann or President of Austria advertising. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that you have really approved of tourism. And this is not only my choice of words, but it has also said the chairman of the Gastwirtschaft section, Mr Hinterleitner, yesterday on the host business day in Styria, literally, that politics has passed away from tourism. . I must say that it is sad to see your own people, your former colleagues from the Chamber of Commerce. Minister! The presentation of Austria's advertising at the ITB in Berlin was therefore so disastrous because it can be seen in the connex of the international comparison of Austria at the largest tourism fair in the world, compared with our main competitors Germany, Switzerland, Italy and Spain. Mr Minister, I asked you the question of why you were not present as a responsible tourism minister at this trade fair – neither at a press conference nor elsewhere. I also made the effort to call the ministry, as the answer came that you were busy – I think it was about the first talks on the trade order – and I was told that some officials had already left. I must say that is really sad, because if you make an international comparison - I have taken the ITB's programme - you can see that 77 ministers have been at ITB, 22 deputy ministers or State Secretary and 53 ambassadors. Apparently, Austria does not have to be present at this world's largest tourism fair. And that's not the first time, it was like that last year and in a few years before. And that, I think, is immense. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Awesome!]] Question 2 was: Are there any regulations or conditions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Austrian advertising during the presentation of our country at international events? – I am clear that as a minister you cannot of course give these specifications, but in your dual role as President of Austria advertising in turn, you can give this association very likely guidelines for efficient advertising. Minister! It would lead too far if I now described to you the presentation of Austria's advertising. I'm going to ask you in a personal conversation what's been happening there. But that you go here today and set up a barrier...! You answer in your inquiry: Yes, that's the concept from 1995, 1996 with this ski data system. But there was no consideration at all for development. Since the Eastern countries have had some money, the ITB has also developed as a visitor fair – the share is about half-half – and we also have to consider the many visitors. There are 100 000 in total, 50,000 trade visitors, 50,000 others, and in these there should simply be emotions to travel to Austria. Of all this, nothing was available. No, you make a barrier to a ski data system with your own VIP card. It must be said that the card was sent to the parties before, and others had no way of entering it. And now I'm wondering, How are new contacts to be made? How should it be possible to get to know someone, make new contacts? Other countries also have the separation between the subject area and the visitor area, but more transparent, and they have a charming lady standing there who welcomes the people and points out where the trade visitors are. There is no limit to simply setting up a barrier where you need to put a card in order to get through at all. And so it is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] You weren't there at all, how do you want to know? [[Abg. Grabner: Is not true!]] The next point: We have had a giant stand, everything white in white, everything ill lit out, and from the top down a stylized Alpine panorama is hung. The poor artist who designed this can't do anything because the Alpine panorama didn't come into force at all – it wasn't recognizable as such either. As I am really looking for you to take into account the IPK study at the next trade fair and to present mountains and lakes, in the large frame, the possibility would be available. Why didn't you put up a climbing wall? Tirol advertising has a climbing wall. You could set up a climbing wall and make climbing tasty. So the whole presentation was just dilettant. The summit also noted that there was no interest at all in thinking about fineties, of small things. Each of us must think of small things in the daily operation, because the little things make it up at the end of the day. And so it happened that, for example, Austria's advertising has not even been published in the ITB's directory of telephones. You can see, she's not inside. The question was raised by you: They're all equipped with handcuffs. I asked there and got the answer: We don't need a phone anyway, because we're all reachable by handies. – The fact is, however, that visitors to the fair who are looking for contact with Austria can also be late, some dates can only be late, and they cannot even call and say: Please wait, wait, I'm coming half an hour later, my plane was late. – You have to imagine that! I can show you: Austria doesn't seem like it! [[The speaker presented a leaflet to Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner.]] Next: Each visitor takes the list of participants at hand. The Austrian advertising can only be found under "Ö". I don't need to tell you how many states there are that don't know the letter "Ö" and just look for Austria under "Austria". In your answer to your question, tell me there is a table of contents in which Austria can be found under "Austria". – Mr Minister, be so kind and show me the table of contents in this exhibitor directory! This exhibitor directory has no table of contents. So, Minister, either you have not answered this question yourself, or you have not said the truth. Check, please show me the table of contents! Austria is only in under "Ö". It's the Austria Trend hotels inside. Can't Austria be mentioned again under "Austria"? These are these little things. I know you don't want to hear that, but these are little things – Mr Puttinger will confirm this to me – that are simply the overall picture that is annoying the guest who is annoying the exhibitor who is annoying anyone who wants to go to Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since we're in annoyance, Minister: The biggest trouble is in my industry, as far as the presentation of family advertising is concerned. As President of Austria, you are advertising by any entrepreneur who is involved in this product family hotels, children's hotels, 20 000 p. But not that you believe you pay only once! Once you pay the Austrian advertising via the federal tax, then via a state tax and once again via the Chamber of Commerce as an entrepreneur – and then you have to pay the Austrian advertising for a fourth time so that you can switch an advertisement in the brochure "Familieshotels". Austria's advertising makes the presentation of the family hotels, and that, Minister, is a sad sight. [[The speaker shows a photo of the stand.]] It was the group JUPPIDU, which I know very well and which also did very well, that can't do anything for it at all. It has not even been worth the effort to hang up the board for the Austrian advertising, which should indicate that it is a family holiday in Austria – it would have been enough space – no, one has leaned them in the back of the ground. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Loveless, the whole!]] As an entrepreneur, who always looks at the fact that everything works in the front and in the back, I must tell you that this is such lovelessness, a diletantism and an inability for which you are responsible as President of Austria advertising and as Minister responsible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Look Please, that's really shocking! [[The speaker hand over the photo to the Minister.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's ridiculous!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That looks similar to you! You're all ridiculous!]] Don't tell me that's shocking for me, because I'm sure Mr. Minister – I appreciate you already – if you had visited the fair and seen it there, you would have brought the responsible people and said: What do you think? So you can't present that! You didn't even hang this table, you put it to the ground in a slant! You have to imagine that! And for all who do not know: The family holiday was the main theme at the ÖW stand at the ITB, the world's largest tourism trade fair, and so it was presented. It is so shocking, but it is the reflection of our tourism managers in this country that simply doesn't care what is happening in tourism.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13830	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Your speaking time is over, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13852	Minister! Take your responsibility both as President of Austria's Advertising and as Minister of Economic Affairs, responsible for tourism, finally perceive!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13882	The next item is the speech by Mr Parnigoni. I would draw attention to the fact that from now on the speaking time is 5 minutes. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And red is the table too!]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Let me ask you a question. I haven't set the clock yet. But maybe you can end the discussions in the bank series now.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13918	Minister! Mr President. High house! We are dealing here with a request from the liberals, an answer to a question that concerns – as Mr Rossmann has said here – whether the ITB is a tourism trade fair, a trade fair or a trade fair and whether the state of Austria has been in the state of advertising, as Mrs Rossmann suggests. [[Abg. Haigermoser: An answer! That's the fine difference!]] First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, of course, a trade fair is re-evaluating itself in its conception, and so it is that the ITB in Berlin is changing from the trade fair to a trade fair and therefore its target audience is different. Therefore, it is also reorganising accordingly. Secondly, it must be said that this state of affairs, which you are talking about, has been presented by Mr Rossmann, as well as by the Minister's reply to the question, from 1995 and has cost a lot of money. This is because the former managing director has bought it, his name is Lukas, and today he is a free Member of the European Parliament. That is what we must say. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But he has done a lot of key figures!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Rossmann.]] This is why it is used because it must finally amortize itself. You can't throw the money out of the window, as the liberals always say! You have to save accordingly, and that is why this stand was used again. Thirdly, I would like to point out that Austria's advertising at ITB cannot have been so unsuccessful, because, finally, as one can see from the response to the request and as I know from conversations, the frequency of conversation has increased by 30 percent and the trade visitors, who are the most important for the Austrian exhibitors there, have very much liked and to a greater extent accepted this offer. Ladies and gentlemen! As to whether the Austrian advertising will be happy in its present structure, we can hold the discussion, and we have also conducted it very long and very intensively. Now Minister Farnleitner has said that he would like to try a restructuring of the ÖW in the form of an association structure again. We meant maybe you should choose the legal form of an AG or GesmbH, but we'll look at it now. One should once give those who have now put on this structure the opportunity to show whether they can succeed. At least in a first step, they have brought together the fact that 45 per cent of the expenditure on the operating level and 55 per cent on staff has turned over and therefore more money is available for the operational tasks of the public authorities. I believe that this is a reasonable development and I therefore believe that a first successful step has been taken. But, High House, we know, summer is about to start the FPÖ Summer Games once again, and that's the opening. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There you get a post – as a backdrop slider!]] And for the second time, Mr Haigermoser, we already know very well: If the Liberals or the Greens bring in a urgent item in this House, the FPÖ always feels that it is coming too short, and must immediately delay a discussion of an answer so that it can prove its need in this House. I see, however, the problem of the development of tourism, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that the trend over the last half of the winter was not acceptable is that revenue has developed back and that the number of nights has declined, we do not want to dispute it all. And that the efforts of the industry, politics and the public authorities must be enormous in order to recapture this in order to score again with the largest export product in Austria, that is no question. But I do not think that the debate is about whether a sign is standing on the ground or hanging on the wall above, which can significantly influence the Austrian tourism balance. I expect more impetus when we start implementing such demands for the development of regional tourism organisations or finally starting with a master plan with the corresponding tourism strategy for 2005. Since, I think, we should work together, and, Minister, in this direction, you also have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13988	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14009	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear plenary! When I looked at this answer, I wondered why this question had actually been asked. The first question concerns the classification of the Minister's timetable. I don't think that's what we're responsible for. The Minister – I trust him – can decide for himself what he is doing. The answer to the second question is clear from the outset to each economic operator: In a company that implements 500 million, there will be certain decision-making criteria for the relevant bodies. The third, fourth and fifth questions concern the Statutes. I wonder, "F": Why didn't you go to Mr Grasser, the young dynamic gentleman from Carinthia? You'll know him, please. He has the statutes, because he is represented in the bodies. The sixth question is a financial question. The ninth question is a financial question that has been answered. I'm really wondering: Catch What So you're going to use those numbers? You have proved it to the budget: At the savings budget, you'll get 40 billion schilling out more. So why put You're a financial question if you can't deal with the finances anyway? The eighth question is a purely theoretical question, where you deal with trade fairs. Everyone here in the house knows what a trade fair is. I do not need to ask why you have to behave differently at a trade fair than at a visitor fair. And so it goes with questions 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14. I only have five minutes. Let me therefore also say a few basic things. Mrs Rossmann! You have certainly been a trade visitor, so you have come through this lock and have probably found that the 100 or 150 places have been sold out, that you have not got any place all day. It will be better for you if there are trade visitors there than if there are visitors sitting there who prefer to eat and drink and have nothing to do with professional visitors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Mrs Rossmann! As you criticize the state, I have to give you a very clear answer. You will know the "Travel Inside", after all, the largest travel event newspaper with its headquarters in Switzerland, which writes the following about Switzerland and Austria: However, according to the offer, especially older semesters were grounded through the Swiss brochure mountains, while, for example, the Austrians, only 50 meters away, supported the kids. Our neighboring country, whose tourism is also deep in ink, offered sound, animation and trendy offers. – That writes the biggest newspaper in this field, but you have nothing else to do but tell negative things here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I have something to say so that you know what the question was about – and that has already been said by Parnigoni today: If one is already excited about the tower and its design, one must also say that this tower has been developed by someone who is today a liberal parliamentarian. Your honourable Member has done this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] If you complain about the barrier, I must tell you again that it was also the then head of the public office of Lukas, who introduced it, for good reason. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Rossmann.]] If you complain about the construction of a stand, I can tell you that this was also your Member of the EU Parliament, your tourism specialist, who introduced it. And if you are complaining about the architect and have shown this image so beautifully, I must point out to you that it was the same architect who was responsible for the design in 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1997 and who was also appointed by your Director-General Lukas at the time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to congratulate you on letting yourself down in this discussion. I do not understand how to proceed in such a way.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14115	As the next speaker, honourable Member is Magistrate. Trattner. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14137	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After the fireworks of our colleague Puttinger, one must actually come to realize that in Austrian tourism everything is in order. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Puttinger! I can tell you one thing: When my colleague Lukas was still head of the Austrian advertising, the figures still voted – today we are far from the desired figures. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] If you look at the answer to question 8, you have to break that on the tongue. You get the impression that you want to organize such trade fairs and stay below you, you want no strangers to come there. The answer to question 8 is delicious: "In the past, Austrian trade visitors vehemently demanded effective control of access to the trade visitors' area." - From the Austrian! So the foreign interested parties did not seem to be excited about this, but the Austrians wanted to hold a "inbreeding event" there, the same "inbreeding events" as they hold the ÖVP. Due to these "inbreding events", the ÖVP has lost 70 percent of its voters in the last 20 years and increased FPÖ by seven times. This is your political work. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They keep saying that Austria's advertising works well. However, there is a need to look at the participation conditions there: 60 percent federal government, 20 percent chamber, 20 percent countries. In fact, one should think that they communicate with one another that one agrees with one another what one does. I got a newsletter from the Styria: Wander Initiative der Österreich Werbung. Request for non-participation of the Styrian places and regions. After five federal states have already refused to participate in this action, the order of Austria to advertise a company, i.e. the company ITA, a Aviso, which provides for acquisition measures in the order between 50 000 and 100 000 S with Styrian places. This is the same company ITA, which also makes the wine brochure, and that is the same company ITA, which is probably not able to cause the whole from the scale, because according to KSV communication, it has a volume of sales of one million schillings a year. Yeah, please, what's going on there? One million revenues a year, this must only be achieved with an advertising campaign. What kind of company is that? That would be to be examined once. What is that for a company that simply goes to the federal states on acquisition, although it is said by the federal states that such acquisition measures do not take place there? Also at a meeting on 5 May. It was clearly agreed in February 1997 on the production of advertising media that advertising on the part of Austria would not be launched at national and regional level. But then you do it anyway and send this company ITA into the fire. There is something else, however, which shows how these advertising activities of Austria go about advertising. They know exactly the dispute before the Labour Court between Mr Höferer and a senior employee who criticises that the accused party, namely Austria's advertising, is not at all able to present a tourism concept for summer tourism in 1997 – that was in March 1997 – although all the federal states have already presented their advertising concepts. The same was true for the 1996/97 winter season, where it was not until the 11th century. October presented the advertising campaign. ==References== October, i.e. at a time when the winter season should basically be almost booked out, an advertising campaign will be launched, with the strategy "Everyday out, Austria in". If in the market investigation of an advertising campaign the notation is higher than two, then any reasonable marketing person will question the strategy precisely, then this action should either be changed or blown off quickly. This action has received the mention "more than three", and Mr Höferer as the managing director of the Austrian advertising has seen no reason at all to intervene there and to change something. He said everything was going to be all right. But that it's not going well, we know, we know the numbers. The figures are bad today, and at the time of Luke the numbers were good.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14211	Now, Deputies Mag. Peter at the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14232	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's really scurry: Austrian tourism has to endure the most difficult structural change of its history, and we are talking about party-political games, we are talking about whether the now liberal Lukas or the former red or perhaps black courtiers – I don't know, and it's completely indifferent to me – has ridden a real or false line of advertising there or there. Ladies and gentlemen! It is strange if the Hoge Haus has nothing else to discuss in connection with tourism – it is an industry that still accounts for 6.2 percent of the gross domestic product to foreign exchange, which employs many hundreds of thousands of people – as about the design of a trade fair stand at ITB in Berlin. I think this is so bizarre that I already find it unbearable! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we can do is to understand that we must make tourism a national concern. I call you numbers for 1996: Foreign exchange income was 6.2 percent of GDP. In 1992, the share of GDP was 8.4% of GDP. In other words, tourism – measured in absolute percentage points – had a 2.2 percent lower dynamic in 1996 than the other sectors of the economy. This is about 50 billion schillings, ladies and gentlemen, 50 billion schillings, which are missing as foreign exchange and are painful in the balance of payments, as well as 50 billion schillings in economic growth. Today, Austria – unfortunately, I have to say that – is in the final position in economic growth within the European Union. Let us therefore make tourism a national concern! Let us discuss the meaning of an export offensive, which is always based only on the industrial and industrial sector! Let us break our heads over an export offensive in the tourist area, in which, once again, we have lost 50 billion Schilling foreign exchange revenue at the expense of Austria's economic dynamics! The figures speak a clear language. The current account developments in the first quarter are highly worrying. We are moving towards a negative current account of over 2% of GDP. The economic figures have recently been made available to you by the National Bank, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Among these figures, averages for 3 to 5 star companies appear to be median for the housing industry: a negative equity of 11 percent, double indebtedness of sales and a return of minus 2.6 percent. These are the facts that we need to discuss in the House! We need to discuss how we set new framework conditions, how we start an export offensive. How can we continue the unheard-of success we achieved in tourism from the 1960s to the 1980s in the 1990s? But what do we do instead? . We are dealing in a small-cared party-political talk about whether it has now done a blue, a red or a black. This is the only thing that is really not interesting for tourism. Some party politician of the liberals may cool his moth, but that does not help and does not contribute positively. It's just ridiculous, Mrs. Rossmann, what you've delivered here! It is unfortunate and ridiculous, and this has not deserved Austrian tourism. Keep such speeches in the Styrian Landtag, but not here in Parliament! [[We welcome the Liberal Forum, as well as representatives of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Greens.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Rossmann and Abg. May. Trattner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The problem in Austrian tourism is not that the market opportunities would not be intact. This country is beautiful. It has a suitable infrastructure, it is in the middle of its markets, and it has all the opportunities. Each percentage of economic growth in the reform states leads to further tourism recovery in Austria. But the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the cost of the service site. I'll write this to you from the government fractions in the main book! We push ourselves over prices simply and simply out of the market. Where prices cannot be reduced, otherwise the costs will not be included, and where the market does not accept prices, the results I have just read to you from publications of the National Bank. Unfortunately, sales profitability in 1995 and 1996 was even worse: minus 2.59 percent. Federal Minister! If you spoke, I would be grateful if you would comment on these questions. – The question of where a particular frame has been established does not interest anyone except Mrs Rossmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14305	Mr Peter! The Federal Minister has already spoken. I give him the floor as the last speaker in this debate. – Mr Minister, your contribution should not exceed 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14326	Mr President. High house! There is a discussion everywhere in the developed European countries, in all EU Member States, about the purpose of ministers showing themselves at trade fairs. As far as ITB is concerned, we have agreed with the European ministers and have been informed by all that they will not participate in this trade fair, so that no European Minister for the Environment, except the Greek Minister for Tourism, who was present at an environmental event by Mrs Merkel, has participated. If it were true, I would read to you who took part in it from Europe. We don't count on that. Trade fairs are events in which the interested economic operators are to meet. Berlin itself is a shiny example of how trade fairs can denature. In my former role, I was a participant of the Berlin Green Week for decades, which has also developed from a trade fair to an audience fair. At the request of the Austrian exhibitors – I repeat it for colleagues Trattner: at the request of the Austrian exhibitors – the trade fair ITB was established. We always had full coys there, about 100 companies were represented there. They have made full use of the rooms because the demand was large enough, and they complain that, if they are not made the same rules as others, they have no chance of having an undistorted conversation with the interested parties. It has also been made clear at the Berliner Messe that, especially since the opening of the East, the Berliner Messen have become favorite meeting points for public outings. I say this because I was able to experience it on my own during the Berlin Green Week. On another point: I do not want to be in the least polemic, Mr President. But I have experienced that the FPÖ has been very interested in my travels in written questions. I am thinking, for example, of the question about the trip to Japan. I am grateful that she is also interested in my unscathed journeys. Therefore, with the necessary care, I will check all my travel obligations with a view to whether it is worth going somewhere. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, effective advertising and specifications. – The review of the reactions to this Berlin trade fair has shown me that there has been no negative reaction from our federal states, although otherwise they are the first to write such letters. [[Abg. Rossmann: You didn't know!]] The participants expressed their satisfaction when – still in Berlin – they were asked. The international press has already been quoted. What I read in the national press – in the trade journals "ÖGZ" and "Austria Tourist" – has shown that this fair participation has been very positive. If you have come to a completely different conclusion individually, this is your right, and I am happy to grant it to you. But I am opposed to this impression being presented as a flat-rate impression. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to the efforts of Germany and Austria in the context of European integration to make German an official language, we attach great importance to the country name "Austria" internationally. We therefore have nothing against appearing in this catalogue under the name "Austria". I even trust to bet that we would have been strongly criticized if we had been included under "Austria". I think we're Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] [[Further calls.]] Last point: I believe that, at a time when income and unemployment development is not particularly significant in terms of positive conditions for global tourism, we must pay particular attention to presenting ourselves in the context of a European tourism scenario in advertising in such a way that we receive attention. International tourism experts have confirmed to me that we have presented ourselves with the theme "Everyday out, Austria purely" largely singular and eye-catching. – We will be able to talk about this after the first results have been made. Mr Peter! On your appeal, I would like to say that I will shortly present a new tourism report to Parliament in the Council of Ministers. We can then hold a very intense discussion on policy and its results under new premises. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14401	Thank you, Minister of State. There is no more word message for this. I will close this debate. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14425	I shall now resume the negotiations on Agenda items 1 to 8. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. I'll give it to him. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14450	Mr President. High house! Unfortunately, the Federal Minister for the Interior has now come to an end. But the numbers speak for themselves: Within ten years, the number of foreigners has increased from just over 200 000 to over 720 000, as I mean, very, very proud numbers. Mr Schlögl himself said: This is a huge number of immigrations. In the present draft government, we see a law which is very unrounded in itself and which expresses many things only in possible form. If we now make an amendment as an opposition party in order to provide clarifications in a number of areas, this should be seen by the government parties as oppositional support. I am in favour of this amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Partik-Pablé, Jung, Hofmann and Lafer as follows. In connection with the residence permits in § 7 we demand that additional persons appear there who have been shown to be established in Austria for the purpose of studying or schooling. This is justified by the fact that we do not want to create a bad situation for Austrian students who have to prove their success in studying. We can give good examples of this, and I will allow you to report to you recently. At the beginning of May a Moroccan who had studied German Studies for three semesters came to a demonstration at the Federal Ministry of the Interior. He had to serve himself in the course of an interpreter's consent. It is clear, as I believe, that proof of the success of the study and proof of whether it is being studied at all makes sense and that – this is a crucial point – students and students are basically included in the quota scheme. Ladies and gentlemen! The Salzburg Government has delivered an opinion on this subject, stating that people from North Africa and Nigeria are more likely to come to Austria and to indicate the purpose of their stay with "studium". I do not want to remind you that the number of people from North Africa and Nigeria has tripled within a year. It seems also appropriate to us that the residence permit of seasonal workers should include a temporary limitation of the stay. It is not enough for us to speak only of "six months", but it should be included in the legislative text in order to prevent a series of seasonal approvals, the addition "per calendar year". If that were not to happen, it would contradict the intention of the integration package. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be noted that, in many areas of this proposal, there is a great deal of scope for the possibility. The use of the form of possibility will ultimately result in an overriding discretion of the authorities. We therefore advocate this, for example in § 10 para. 2 on the issue of an entry or residence permit to replace the word "can" with "is" so that it means "... is to fail due to danger of public interests... in particular...". The "can" corresponding to the possibility form must be replaced by the "is" indicator. The "Special Provisions for Pendlers" should be extended to "Special Provisions for Borderers and Pendlers". In § 33 para. 1 and 2 in turn, the word "can" be replaced by "is". If, then, it is necessary that the form of possibility be introduced, then § 49 is appropriate. When it comes to granting the permanent authorisation to third-country nationals on request, I can easily imagine that "can" is replaced by "is". Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of "reduction of personal freedom", we believe that an extension should be made by two points. I would like to make a brief comment on one point which you can read in this amendment. This is about hunger strike, and it regulates the medical measures required in the event of hunger strike. You may be aware that within a year the number of those who have come into the hunger strike has increased tenfold. This is one of the rules that affect cases of disease and injury among migrant workers. Ladies and gentlemen! Last, not least, I come to the area of costs. In this respect, we demand that the phrase "including expenditure on the use of reduced funds" be deleted, because the need for justification will be given in the individual case. The reason for not using any relief means is that, as is the case with the comments of the Carinthian and the Burgenian Government, it is likely that, if this text remains, foreigners may be animated to go into anonymity or illegality. That cannot be the meaning of this part of the law. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the mediation of shams, § 106 para. 2 read: "Austrians whose marriage is mediated or initiated shall not be punished as participants.... A stay ban shall be imposed on strangers involved in the disclosure of shins." [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government! You should actually see this as our support. I assume that your consent to this request will ultimately be a limitation of damage to this law, and I thank you in advance for your favourable approval. I assume that you will support the request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14525	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann has tabled an amendment which has been submitted in writing and is sufficiently supported. He also explained it in the key points. The reproduction and distribution of this application within the meaning of § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application will also be printed in the minutes. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14732	Mrs Hagenhofer has now been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14754	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In today's debate, Mr Oellinger said that the AMS – the labour market service – would pass on discrimination in terms of job descriptions. "Discrimination" has clearly meant that a service provider in a job invitation to the labour market service requires only nationals or foreigners with appropriate German skills. The labour market service is a service facility. This means, of course, that we take note of the requirements that the service provider imposes on us, since the service provider himself knows best what work force he can use in what workplace. We know that there are, for example, situations in construction in which, if there is a risk of delay, workers have to respond to calls. That is why we do not regard this as discrimination, but rather simply as a protection for workers. In order to combat alleged discrimination by the AMS and to compensate for job descriptions or occupations, which allow foreigners to experience an integration consolidation, we offer language courses to people. And something second, which my colleague, Ollinger, has also done: He gave the Federal Republic of Germany, as it were, a role to play in the field of asylum policy. I have to contradict him in this regard, because he is not on the way. The Federal Republic of Germany suspends recognised refugees who are in upright service conditions. That means they have to go home where they came from. There is no such thing as that in Austria. Therefore, the Federal Republic of Germany should not be regarded as a model. Now at the very core: Why do foreigners want to come to Austria? – This is because they expect better living, better pay and better working conditions. However, these better conditions that they expect from us can only be guaranteed by a controlled move, because the controlled draw disables a wage pressure down. Controlled draw-up and control over it also eliminates distortions of competition. That is why the harmonisation of the right of foreigners, the right of residence with the foreign employment law is very targeted, as I mean, as it clearly defines criteria for everyone and, of course, every woman to understand when and under what conditions foreigners can gain residence in Austria, or it is also calculable for them to achieve access to the labour market. Another matter explained by the Government's proposal is the implementation of the judgment "Van der Elst". xxx (cf. (Pf) These criteria indicate that third-country nationals of companies can then be employed in EU countries if they have already been employed by a service provider for a year or are able to have an unlimited service relationship. Ladies and gentlemen! Our task is to achieve security and humanity for all people in Austria with the present integration package and not to play a group against the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14802	Mr Oellinger has asked for an actual correction. 2 minutes speaking time. Start with the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14826	Mr Hagenhofer said in her speech that I had confirmed to the Federal Republic of Germany an exemplary asylum policy. I'll put it right: I would never think of certifying an exemplary asylum policy to the Federal Republic of Germany. I have made this claim with regard to the behaviour of the Federal Republic of Germany and of all other European countries, as opposed to their behaviour towards foreign works councils. But this has nothing to do with asylum policy. This was related to foreign policy or the possibility of becoming a works council in the Federal Republic of Germany as a foreigner, for example if you are Austrian.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14854	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14875	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate on the integration package, three topics have repeatedly been discussed: first asylum for refugees under the Geneva Convention, that is, respect for human rights, second humanitarian and social assistance for foreign citizens who are in Austria, i.e. an honest integration, and thirdly the desire of many, mostly from earlier Communist states, but also from other countries, in Austria for economic reasons, that is to say, the new international migration or a targeted immigration policy. First of all, a few remarks: Asylum for Convention refugees. The laws to be adopted today will make substantial improvements both in the procedure and in terms of content. We decide, among other things, for Convention refugees who are in fact afraid of being subjected to persecution, a rule-lawless procedure, a substantial improvement in education and advice, and an improved one, because of the fact that counter-related protection in the event of deportation or non-removing to a safe third country, i.e. the so-called third country clause. The second area: Honest integration. We create a solid basis for organisations that operate integration assistance every day. These are institutions of the federal, state and local authorities, but above all also private humanitarian and ecclesial organizations. This is always a matter of particular concern: Work, living, training, language, social and social integration by learning the German language. However, attention must also be paid to the legal and factual implications for public hands – we have also mentioned this many times today – but also to the Austrian population. On the third point: Modern international migration or targeted immigration policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Even if we need foreign workers with different qualifications in our economy, we also need to maintain: Austria alone can certainly not solve this problem of the former communist states of Europe and, above all, the people who want to come from there. This requires a joint effort by all the wealthy Western states to enable new opportunities for life, economic and social progress for these people disappointed by their systems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== ==References====External links== So let me conclude by quoting what the American Foreign Minister almost 50 years ago, namely, 6th. On June 6, 1947, on the occasion of the birth of the Marshall Plan – quote by George Marshall of June 6, 1947. June 1947 –: "It is only logical for the United States to do everything in its power to promote the restoration of healthy economic conditions in the world, because without it there can be no political stability and no secure peace. Our policy is directed against hunger, poverty, despair and chaos." [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The same applies to a large number of former Eastern countries today, and we should all contribute to the fact that in the next few years these aid will actually become possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14932	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14954	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as legal details and the green criticism of the integration package are concerned, my colleague Teresa Stoisits and colleague Karl Öllingerdas have said most of them. However, it is important to tell you once again from the point of view of one who knows the problems of the people concerned not of hearing but of personal perception: It's not like you believe! It is absolutely not the case as you suggest here, namely that we are going to have a means, one of the opposition parties is not enough for this integration package, the other being too much. It is not a means that you are going here, but it is once again bad legislation. It was said here that it was about legal certainty. At present, foreigners in Austria have only one security, namely the certainty that they are still being discriminated against. This security, that they have been discriminated against in many individual laws, is the whole thing that harms the social fabric. Mr Scheibner said here some time ago from the speaker's desk that the effects of immigration are seen. They were noticed in the belt region that it had been broken by the draw, that slums had been created there. Ladies and gentlemen! If something has been broken down, then by discriminatory laws, by laws that do not allow people to go to the authorities when they are exploited, exploited, unlawfully mistreated, complain about how every Austrian and every Austrian could, because the consequence of these laws is always directed against those concerned. Why this integration package is so missing now shows me a look at the government bank. That's exactly this double track: In the end, internal security authorities, social administration authorities, continue to exist – at the expense of those concerned and at the expense of the Austrians. Mrs Hagenhofer! The laws are not in line. I would like to present this to you on the basis of a very concrete example of a woman I know very, very well. She's not an individual case. Many such cases are addressed to us. This young woman, whose marriage was divorced after ten years, was always legal in Austria as a member of a foreign businessman. Now she's divorced. She wants and must stand on her own feet. This woman has never been blamed for anything, not even any administrative penalty. She speaks German as well as you and I. She's probably integrated. She has been here in the country for years, and now, because she wants to work and has to, she has been looking for a job. She also found an employer. Hamburger wanted to sell her to Mc Donald's. The answer of the labour market administration was lapidar: The quota is full. Don't go anymore! I ask you: What do you want me to tell this young woman? How should she earn her living here in Austria? Your husband can't be reached anymore. She's not getting any maintenance services. She can't go back either. She's from Iran. She is now a western-oriented, perfectly German speaking, well-integrated person. What can I recommend to her except to beg, steal, or maybe go on the line? This will not change after this integration package. In particular, this package is at the expense of foreign women, and hence also at the expense of female nationals, because it forces foreign women, for example, who have dissolved a marriage, to seek illegal employment, to be exploited and suppressed, and thus to be perceived as a threat by other social weak people subjectively. If there is no complete harmonisation of residence and employment law, that is, if not all those who are legal here – in all the restrictions – can also work and can work legally! – then, I tell you, there will be no change in discrimination, in exploitation and in the taste of tear for the social fabric.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15005	The next speaker is Mr Achs. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15026	Mr President. Mrs. and Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker on this important law, I can sum up that the package of integration, which is under discussion today, contains measures that are compatible with integration. But today's debate also shows us that some have a problem with dealing with this issue in a matter of matter. Her criticism, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, may be good, but unfortunately she goes beyond reality. For one part of the opposition, the new provisions are too restrictive, for the other part they are too restrictive. This is a clear sign, ladies and gentlemen, that we have found the golden middle way here. The development of recent years has shown that restrictive immigration provisions are essential. In 1992 we were one of the first countries to regulate the residence of foreigners with a law of our own. At that time, the annual increase in foreign labour force was between 40 000 and 50 000. This was particularly difficult for the Austrian labour market in an economicly difficult period. Legal measures have been taken and the number of foreigners has declined for the first time since 1984. The new law also contains restrictive immigration provisions. But what is very important, ladies and gentlemen: The new Xenophobia Act also includes important integrative measures. Integration not only has a humanitarian background, integration is also an essential element of security in that country. The provisions on the debate today are also to be seen in the context of international agreements. With Austria's accession to the Schengen Agreement, we have not only acquired rights for our citizens, we also have to fulfil various obligations. This includes harmonising our laws as well as strengthening control at our external borders. This is not about a new iron curtain, but simply about more safety. In particular, international organised crime and tow-freeness is hereby declared the fight. Of course, the fulfilment of the Schengen criteria requires great financial and human efforts. In particular for the Burgenland, ladies and gentlemen, where most illegals have been attacked, we can already say today that we will meet the conditions already in the autumn of this year. The figures speak for themselves. In the first five months of this year, 5 000 illegal border workers were more attacked, 3 000 of them in Burgenland alone. It is clear from this that the increased human resources, but also technical use, have paid off. We do well to continue this path. We are doing well if we are already proposing effective rules to crime at our borders. This is in the interests of our partners in Europe and, above all, in the interests of the security of our own country. It is about developing police cooperation at international level, ladies and gentlemen. Above all, enlargement in the technical field, the expansion of infrastructure, is essential so that smooth data exchange is possible. This integration package represents a reasonable foreign policy, a foreign policy with an eye to it. I am therefore confident that in the future we will continue to pursue a path that is appropriate and practical, a way which will meet people's needs. I am therefore confident that we will never lose sight of a principle: the principle of continuing security for all people in our country. However, continuing security also requires that the ambitious work of our safety executive continue to be fully supported, presupposes that our safety-executive worker conditions are found to ensure successful work. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally, I have two amendments to make. The first amendment is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second amendment is as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15144	The two amendments just read have been properly submitted, duly supported and are therefore under negotiation. Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15168	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called integration package has been properly criticised by the Greens, and many areas have already been sufficiently implemented by my colleagues. But I would like to mention an area that is very close to my heart and where a humane solution could be found, and that is the area of family integration. It is necessary to clarify what will happen in the future if family members over 14 years old and disabled are no longer allowed to go to Austria. Minister! I do not know if you have been in Rovinj in recent years, where many disabled people live and where disabled people can drive to the spa, people who have become disabled due to the war or who have been disabled from birth. Many of these people are still living in Yugoslavia because they have the opportunity to be cared for and cared for by grandparents. But what will the future of these people look like when their grandparents die and they are there alone? How do you imagine that parents can take care of their disabled families if they are not allowed to enter Austria so that they are cared for and cared for by their parents here, although you know very well that these people in Austria are not anyone – absolutely nobody! – would fall to the burden because they would have no legal right to care or any other disability-related benefits from the Austrian legislation anyway? It is simply too stupid for me to see how, on the one hand, one tries to build homes for disabled children and to care for them there in some way half-humane, but on the other hand, these disabled people have members in Austria who would like to take care of this care, but do not need to enter Austria. Minister! It doesn't matter, it doesn't do anything about the "nearly in need" action, it doesn't do anything about the projects, nor does the "light in the dark" action, if we're not prepared to do something for our disabled foreign fellow citizens, whose parents live in Austria, especially when we don't want to bear responsibility for it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's really bad. I'm on Monday on 1st. The district took a walk, and it was an older gentleman at St. Stephen's Cathedral and spoke to the parish priest, and when I passed by, he called me and asked me where he could get a wheelchair with a chin service for his Yugoslav friend, because he did not know how to continue with this man injured in war in the future: The young man lives in Yugoslavia, his grandparents are dead, but his parents are in Austria, and he is still not allowed to go to Austria. If that, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, is your family integration policy, your policies of humanity, your policies that you keep running again and again, saying that family members must care for their sick, disabled relatives, but on the other hand forbid them to do it actually, then I wonder if you do not live in a permanent contradiction. For me, it is schizophrenic for you to present yourself to the camera on the one hand to Christmas and praise that you gather in Austria for disabled people, and on the other hand, for people who have the right to come to Austria, to do absolutely nothing, to hide it completely consciously. I know, Mr Minister – and no one can deny this – that disabled people are forbidden to move to Austria if they are older than 14 years old. It is not that one has forgotten this fact in this law. They have been reminded several times by organizations and asked how these disabled people are to continue. But that wasn't a topic for you. But this must be an issue, because we bear responsibility for these disabled people, and we cannot afford such a short-sightedness by saying that nothing from the border of Burgenland is going to concern us. Ladies and gentlemen! We have responsibility for people from abroad who live with us in Austria, and we also bear responsibility if they want to move with their families to Austria. It is our task to ensure that, if these persons are disabled, they can lead a decent, decent, just life in Austria. It does not cost the state as a piece of responsibility, but you also want to refuse it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15222	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. A final word is not wanted by the rapporteurs. We are now entering the voting procedure. I ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will take a little longer. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law on the foreign law in 1997 and the title and receipt, Appendix I in 755 of the Supplements. Members Dr Kier and comrades have tabled amendments and additional requests. The Members of Parliament also have power. Mr Stoisits and his comrades tabled amendments. Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades also tabled amendments or additional proposals. Finally, Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. I will therefore vote on the parts concerned by the above-mentioned applications, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first make a provision within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. Deputies Dr. Kier and comrades have requested to replace the word "Fremde" by the word "Person non-Austrian citizenship" and the word "foreign citizenship" by the word "other citizenship". I would ask those Members who wish to vote in favour of this amendment to do so. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 7 para. 3 and 4. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In the case of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr Kier and comrades as well as deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have each submitted an amendment to delete the Z. 3 in § 8 para. 3 to the content. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 8 para. 3 C. 3 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I leave immediately on § 8 para. 3 C. 3 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. Deputies Dr. Kier and comrades have an amendment concerning § 8 para. 4 and 5. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 9 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning the first half of § 10 para. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 10 para. 2 C. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning § 10 para. 3 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have the removal of the Abs. 4 in § 10. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 10 para. The last sentence, as amended by the Committee's report, was introduced and requested as a new paragraph 4. 5 to be rowed. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on § 10 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment which has the deletion of § 13 on the content and on § 14 para. 2 and 3. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I leave immediately on § 13 and § 14 para. 2 and 3 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an additional request concerning § 18 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment to § 18 para. 1 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I leave immediately on § 18 para. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 18 para. 5 (Constitutional provision). In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. I now leave immediately on § 18 para. 5 as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I'll ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment to delete the first sentence in § 18 para. 6 to the content. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment which deletes the previous sentence in § 18 para. 6 to the content. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I now leave § 18 para. 6 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Mr Kier and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new Z. 1 in § 19 para. 2 contains. In the event of your consent, I would like to see a sign of this kind. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning § 20 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 20 para. 1 first sentence. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, MEPs have an amendment concerning § 20 para. 1 last sentence. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately proceed to the vote on § 20 para. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 21. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, MEPs have an amendment concerning § 21 para. 1 and the removal of paragraph 1 3 introduced. I ask for a corresponding sign if you want to agree. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 21 as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 22. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 22 first sentence. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on this legislation as it stands in the Committee's report. I'm asking you for a sign of this kind. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 23 para. 1 to 3. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades as well as MEPs Leikam, Kiss and Comrades each have an amendment concerning § 23 para. 7 which refers to the correctness of a citation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for a sign to be given to those who support the amendments tabled by Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades as well as by Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment with regard to the heading of Section 4 and § 25 para. 1 and 2. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. We are therefore voting on these parts of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and comrades have an amendment concerning § 28 para. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Stoisits and comrades an amendment concerning § 28 para. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I now leave § 28 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to have a positive sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have the removal of the title as well as of the Abs. 1 in § 32 requested. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades as well as the representatives of Dr. Kier and comrades each have the deletion of the Abs. 2 in § 32 requested. I would ask you to give you an appropriate sign in case of your consent. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on § 32 and the title of the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 33 para. 1 and 2. If you would like to give him your consent, I would ask him for a sign of this kind. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask for an appropriate sign in case of your consent. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have submitted an additional request concerning § 33. I am looking for a sign for those Members who are voting in favour of this supplementary request by Mr Kier and Mr Comrades. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have the removal of the Abs. 2 to 4 requested in § 34. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 34 para. 1 C. 3 and Para. 2 and 3 C. 1 and 2. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 34 para. 3 first half. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on § 34 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning § 35 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, Members Dr Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the same provision. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, MEPs have given Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades tabled an amendment concerning § 35 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning § 35 para. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, MEPs Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 35 para. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Kier and comrades have the deletion of § 35 para. 3 requested. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment to § 35 para. 3 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on § 35 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment to § 36 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 36 para. 1 first half. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning § 36 para. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. MEPs also have an amendment concerning § 36 para. 2 C. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 36 para. 2 C. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 36 para. 2 C. 4 and 9. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. In addition, MEPs Dr. Partik-Pablé and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 36 para. 2 C. 5 to be introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning § 36 para. 3 introduced. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. Rejected. Mr Kier and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph. 5 in § 36 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on § 36 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 37. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 37 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I shall therefore vote on § 37 as amended by the Committee's report. The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. Mr Kier and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new Z. 1 in § 38 para. 1 to the content. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 38. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, MEPs have given Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades tabled an amendment to delete the Z. 4 in § 38 para. 1 and para. 2 included. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on § 38 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 45 para. 5 as well as § 49 para. 1 introduced. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 49 para. 2 introduced. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I therefore leave on § 49 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 52 para. 3 as well as § 57 para. 5 to be introduced. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. Members of Parliament Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an additional request concerning the insertion of new paras. 5 to 7 in § 61. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 65 para. 1 introduced. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. I now leave § 65 para. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have requested the deletion of § 66. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. A amendment tabled by Dr Kier and Comrades refers to § 66 para. 1. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 66 as amended by the Committee's report. The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 69 para. 4 and 6, § 71 para. 2 C. 2 and para. 5 as well as § 75 para. 2, 3 and 5. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. In addition, Mr Kier and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph. 6 in § 75 zur Inhalt. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. A amendment tabled by Dr Kier and Comrades refers to § 93 para. 2 as well as the removal of the para. 2, 3 and 5 in § 94. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have tabled an amendment to §§ 103, 105 para. 4 and § 106 as well as the table of contents of the draft law. In the event of your consent, I would like to see a sign of this kind. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning § 113 para. 5, 7 and 10. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We now proceed to the vote on the draft law on asylum in 1997 including title and receipt, Appendix 2 (755 d. B.). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades have tabled supplementary and amending proposals. Mr Kier and Mr Comrades have also tabled supplementary and amending proposals. The Members of Parliament also have power. Proposals for supplementary and amending measures are submitted by Stoisits and Comrades. Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the supplementary proposals, then on the parts of the bill concerned by the amendments, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new § 6a. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Partik-Pablé and Comrades, have tabled an additional request for a new paragraph. 3 of § 27 has the content. In the event of your consent, I would like to ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. The Members of Parliament also have power. Stoisits and comrades submit an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph. 4 provided for in § 27. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Mr Kier and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request for a new paragraph. 4 in § 32 refers. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request for the insertion of a new § 40a and a new para. 7 in § 44. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Kier and comrades have tabled an amendment to replace the word "foreigner" in the whole draft law with the term "persons of non-Austrian citizenship". In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have tabled an amendment to § 3 para. 2 refers. In case of consent, I ask you for a corresponding visible sign. – This is only done by the minority. Rejected. I leave immediately § 3 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment to § 4 para. 2 refers. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on this legislative provision as it stands in the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment to § 4 para. 3 refers. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, representatives Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment which is also based on § 4 para. 3 refers. I'm asking for an appropriate sign. – The minority approves. Rejected. I leave immediately on § 4 para. 3 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment to § 4 para. 5 refers. The minority approves this request. Rejected. I leave immediately on § 4 para. 5 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 6 second sentence. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the second sentence of § 6 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 6 Z 2. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I leave immediately on § 6 Z. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades as well as representatives of Dr. Kier and comrades each have the removal of the Z. 3 and 4 in § 6. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. In addition, Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and Comrades have tabled an amendment to § 6 Z. 4 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 6 Z. 3 and 4 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning § 10 para. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. In addition, Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment which is also based on § 10 para. 2 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. In addition, representatives of Dr. Partik-Pablé and Comrades have tabled an amendment which is also based on § 10 para. 2 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 10 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. The majority of the vote will be taken here. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 11 para. 2, § 13 para. 2 and § 14 para. 1 C. 5 to be introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on the just mentioned provisions of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment to § 14 para. 3 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 14 para. 3 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 14 para. 4 to be introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately proceed to the vote § 14 para. 4 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Leikam, Kiss and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 14 para. 5 to be introduced. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 15 para. 3 and § 16. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 15 para. 3 and § 16 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to § 17. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – That's the minority. Rejected. The Members of Parliament also have power. Stoisits and comrades submitted an amendment to § 17 para. 1 and 2 as well as the deletion of paragraphs 1 and 2 3 to 5. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, MEPs Dr. Partik-Pablé and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 17 para. 2 and 4. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 17 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 18 para. 2, § 19 para. 1 and § 20 para. 1. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I leave immediately on § 18 para. 2, § 19 para. 1 and § 20 para. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning § 21 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment to § 21 para. 1 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 21 para. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 21 para. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. The Members of Parliament also have power. Stoisits and comrades submit an amendment, which also applies to § 21 para. 2 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I now leave § 21 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 24 para. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 24 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment to § 25 para. 2 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I leave immediately on § 25 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 26 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on the same legislative provision as the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning § 26 para. 2 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment which is also based on § 26 para. 2 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on the same legislative provision as the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Stoisits and comrades submitted an amendment to § 27 para. 1 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Before voting on the text of the Committee's report, I shall still vote on an amendment concerning § 27 para. 1, introduced by Dr. Kier and comrades. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the same rule of law as the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have tabled an amendment to § 27 para. 2 refers. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I leave immediately on § 27 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 29. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. In addition, MEPs have tabled an amendment to § 29 by Dr Kier and Comrades. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. In addition, MEPs have also tabled an amendment to § 29 by Dr. Partik-Pablé and Comrades. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 29 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 30 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on the same legislation as the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning § 32 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment which is also based on § 32 para. 1 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We now proceed to the vote on § 32 para. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 34 and § 38 para. 1 and 3. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on the same legislation as the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment to § 38 para. 4 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the same legislative provision as the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades have an amendment concerning § 39 para. 1 to 4. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on the same legislation as the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. The representatives of Stoisits and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 40 para. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on the same legislative provision as the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Since the remaining parts of this draft law contain a constitutional provision, I shall first determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. – This is done by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also done by the majority. I, in turn, expressly establish the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr Kier and Mr Comrades on the submission of a report on the implementation of the foreign and asylum applications. – The minority approves. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law on the independent Bundesasylsenat and the title and receipt in 756 of the Supplements. Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the heading to § 14. In view of the fact that there is only one amendment tabled, I shall immediately vote on this draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on the Interior, the conclusion of the State Treaty, the Protocol and the Protocol on the correction of the Convention in 693 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote within the meaning of this kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the authentic Danish, English, French, Gaelic, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese and Spanish texts of this State Treaty, together with the Protocol, are made known by having access to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. This request has been accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr Kier and Mr Comrades on minimum standards for a uniform substantive asylum law in the European Union. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is only done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Foreign Employment Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, together with the title and receipt in 717 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask you once again for an appropriate sign so that you can agree. – This is done by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kier and Mr Comrades on the establishment of a quota for au pairs from countries not members of the EEA. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 718 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 719 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The notice takes place in a majority way. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 719 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give them their approval to give a corresponding sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. (E 59.) We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 720 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 720 to the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. (E 60.) We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 721 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Let me now vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 722 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. 9. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (697 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Employment of Children and Youths 1987 and the General Social Security Act, and on Request 239/A of Deputies Sigisbert Dolinschekund Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Employment of Children and Youth 1987, and on Request 391/A (E) of Deputies Karl Öllinger Rund Comrades concerning measures to improve apprenticeship training (723 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16725	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Gaugg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. A voluntary time limit of 6 minutes is indicated. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16754	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few hours ago, in Rust, Burgenland, the government clause came to an end. It was very surprising that this clature of government took place at a time when a meeting of the European Finance Ministers, that is, a very important meeting, and therefore neither the Minister of Finance nor the competent State, found the time to take part in this meeting so essential to the future development of the common European area. In view of this, I believe that the hat of this government has burned enormously. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The main focus of this clause was on – as I would like to call it – Rust government robbery. Again, the burden on citizens was decided to a much higher extent than originally planned. I can recall that the former Minister of Finance and current Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany thanked the taxpayers in Austria for having paid much more than expected. In reality everything looks different: Measures relating to 70 000 jobs through an export offensive, 30 000 jobs through technology and research promotion and 10,000 new apprenticeships have unfortunately not been implemented, but only announced, once again only announced! The government is proving itself to be the world's champion of announcements and a dwarf of implementation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because at the same time that this government gives its announcements of itself, Eskimo closes and we have a trade deficit of over 100 billion Schilling. That's the reality! In other words, we are losing jobs while at the same time promising thousands of jobs. In reality, you are also kept in mind in the question of apprenticeship employment of the mirrors of failure. They must continue to reflect the failure of employment policy, education policy, education policy, economic policy and so on. The measures you take are alibi treatments. There is an interesting passage on apprenticeship employment: 5 600 young people are expected to continue schooling after graduation. – Now I ask: Where and from whom should 5 600 of the 10 000 schools continue to be cared for? This is because, as Minister Gehrer said, additional officials are needed again, namely teachers. Measures have already been taken, such as the discharge of health insurance contributions for teachers and apprentices. In reality, however, this is only a redistribution. As a result, the additional labour costs of employees are increasing again, according to the currency: The government agrees with everything, but it should pay a third party! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Why do additional wage costs rise?]] That's what I'm asking myself: What is this government taking on taxes at all? For self-management or for what? The government would have to make a significant contribution in terms of employment. In reality, this is a declaration of bankruptcy. It is ready and in the end because of the lack of courage for reforms and decisions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] In the field of education, there have been many years of demands from the teachers of many political groups that the polytechnic course should at last be reformed, that there would be a need for research into apprenticeships among apprentices and an examination of the benefits of European education programmes and more. The social prestige of apprentices should be increased, including through corresponding incomes. Hiebei, however, is particularly distinguished from the public service by paying a very modest remuneration to a highly qualified worker, while a - spoken with a pledge - not such a capable academic ultimately goes into retirement with a princely reward. All these questions cannot be resolved in a press conference called for quickly. We will measure you by what you do. It is therefore necessary to submit a resolution in accordance with the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that we will be able to offer suitable qualified jobs in the future of our youth. And that's our job!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16879	The motion for a resolution just read is properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mr Koppler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16903	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg, when I heard the first part of your speech, I felt that I was at a false wedding, because the word "Teacher" only occurred in the last third of your speech. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Gaugg! The German Government's package of measures on the current apprenticeship situation certainly gives me no reason personally to be euphoric, and I say that very clearly. But it is, as I mean, a first, a good step into the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: But it's too late! You've slept your chances!]] We can and must build on this step in the future! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the next few days, we will have a comprehensive package of measures to improve dual vocational training and to strengthen the recruitment of apprentices. The Government has shown responsibility with this draft, and this is particularly evident in international comparison: Hardly a state other than Austria has so far been able to link such a large package, although the problems beyond the borders of Austria are more dramatic. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is most evident in the example of youth unemployment: With 3.9 percent, Austria is one of the models in Europe, especially compared to Germany, with a youth unemployment of 5.2 percent. [[Abg. Gaugg: That doesn't change any problem!]] Mr Gaugg, listen to me! I am now bringing international comparisons, and we can rightly be proud of them! However, we must not be satisfied, I admit that too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] United Kingdom has a youth unemployment rate of 14.9 percent, France 23.4 percent, Italy 31.1 percent and Spain 38.3 percent. In the EU section, youth unemployment is an alarming 20.2 percent! [[Abg. Gaugg: Will you wait until you are ready?]] Nevertheless, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, these steps were urgently needed in Austria, but they concern the future and our youth. I therefore support the Federal Government's package of measures because reforms in commercial law create more attractive and modern professions that guarantee better job opportunities in the long term, and because the planned professional maturity test facilitates the permeability to higher education routes and thus improves the image of skilled workers, as I hope. [[Abg. Gaugg: You have already announced so much in the workplace!]] I have very little speaking time, but look, Mr Gaugg, the apprentices know exactly who represents their interests. [[Abg. Gaugg: You're not sure!]] The apprentices know exactly that it is not the Freedom Party that stands for the apprentices! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: I'm sure the Pumberger isn't! The well-deserving doctor Pumberger certainly doesn't!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: The only safe workplace is the driver's position by Mr Koppler!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all those who have worked on this reform, on this reform paper, in the time available to me. I would, however, above all like to thank the social and economic partners for their participation and the essential advances that are very necessary for this package. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take a brief look at the future. In the future, we need to link pure education with dual vocational training even more closely than before. Youths, pupils and apprentices should not compete with each other, but complement each other in education. Modern apprenticeships will therefore be even more effective in the future than previously provided for equivalent employment opportunities for pupils and apprentices. [[Abg. Gaugg: I hear it well, only I lack faith!]] This increases the attractiveness of apprenticeship training and the image of apprentices that we can rightly be proud of. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome this step taken by the Federal Government on which we should continue to build. This is very important for our youth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17077	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. No voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17098	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen – I still see a few. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: (in empty bank series significant) Where are they all?]] The apprenticeship training, the dual training in Austria is a single success story, until the year 1992, after which there was a break. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Right!]] Those who would have extrapolated the numbers – i.e. the decrease in the number of apprenticeships offered, and the increase in the number of apprenticeships asked for – who would have acted politically in time should have started to react in 1992 at the latest, in 1993. They now react, in 1997, where real fire is on the roof, because in three weeks the schools close and a lot of young people are threatening to stand on the street. Throughout many years, we have repeatedly told you that dual training is overloaded by red tape, by social and labour legislation, which leads to the criminalisation of teaching firms. We have pointed out to you that the cost of training has increased so much that an increasing level of apprenticeships – so we have warned you two or three years ago – would be excluded from apprenticeship training. We have often told you here in Parliament in debates on education that the primary school, the compulsory school, is increasingly unable to train young people so well that they are at all able to learn a teaching profession in a farm and also to exist the vocational school. We have warned you against accusing teachers on a flat-rate basis, discriminating them, and collectively putting them up as if they were all only exploiters of young people. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! Now you get the bill presented for this. It's a sad bill on the back of the young people. That must be a matter of concern! It is sad that the number of teaching establishments breaks down and the young people no longer find teaching places. Now, five to twelve, you can imagine that you have to do something very quickly! I acknowledge to you that what you are doing is a punctual reform, of which there is no doubt that there is no harm. They will all benefit a little; but just a little, because you are neither able nor willing to take the step that we Liberals have proposed to you, namely to fully reform the teaching by separating vocational schooling and teaching time and using a new model with extended vocational schooling and better vocational schools. Mr. Oellinger of the Greens – we are also negotiating his complete request for measures to improve apprenticeship training; I see him behind the glass door, a smart man – took place on 18 November. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. He first cites a study, which ultimately finds out that apprenticeship training is actually the biggest business. After finding this out, he believes that fewer and fewer apprentices are being trained and the number of apprenticeships is falling to find out that, obviously, all apprenticeships — I am now saying quite salopp — have been bitten by the wild monkey because they do not understand this huge business of apprenticeship training and no longer train apprentices. Mr Oillinger! That's a logic I can only say: Look, look, look! Like the sorcerers, you have reformed the dual education for so long bureaucratically until the companies have said: We can't, we can't do it anymore! Thank God there are still many businesses that do, however, because they feel responsibility for the young people because they like to do it because they are involved and because they like to take care of the apprentice with their employees 40 hours a week, without the same thing as some teacher who has nothing else to do but take care of an apprentice only 20 hours a week, break down and talk about life being so hard. The young people we train in the farms are just as naughty and as nice, as well awakened and as disturbing as those who teach teachers in school, but we endure them surprisingly with some patience 40 hours a week, while the teachers think if they have 20 hours a week, that is no longer reasonable, and the flight to the early board begins. [[Abg. Gatterer: The apprentices must work 60 hours!]] - We'll discuss this later, gracious woman. I qualify for apprenticeship training, I recognize the importance of dual training and ask for it again – today and tomorrow, when we talk about the vocational training law, once again –: Do we really have the courage to put the teaching on a new basis, to put it as an equivalent pillar of secondary education, to attract it, and to allow more apprentices to be accepted through a separation between vocational school and teaching time and through an integral extension of the vocational school? An apprentice who completes six months of vocational school and is in operation for six months, i.e. half, can lead to a double number of apprentices in the same holding. In addition, a whole series of young people who complete the BHS today without being suitable – otherwise I cannot explain the high drop-out ratio of almost a third to the BHS – are returned to where they can push through the teaching as well as through the high-school maturity in the tertiary education sector. Mr Oellinger then, after finding out that the teaching is a business and that the entrepreneurs – salopp said – are just too stupid to understand that as the fourth string, he still knows how he is imagining the measure to improve apprenticeship training. He says: Increase the additional wage costs! - That's his answer. Although we have "only" the third highest labour costs in the European Union, we commend ourselves from the international export markets, oillingers suggest: A burden compensation between trainees and non-trainers must be established! Enterprises that train apprentices are supported by this burden compensation! This, Mr Oellinger – you are still on it; we will still be discussing it – is nothing but the increase in additional labour costs by 1, 2, 3, 4 percentage points, depending on how you determine this burden compensation. This is precisely the wrong way, however, because you want to take regulatory action by the state of the government. First, tax the teaching companies so that they say: We don't train apprentices anymore, we can't do it anymore! And then you say: Now we are making a compensation, now the additional wage costs are coming. We'll show you! We know what reason is; with the tax law we will bluff it up to you! Mr Oellinger! That's a totally wrong way! Faith She's someone who's been training apprentices with her heart for over 25 years and has had many successes, but also terrible failure. So you will not bring anyone to further apprenticeship training, because this is essentially also a question of personal use. There is also a request which you have already made for the third time, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, which is the request of Mr Dolinschek regarding the work of young people in the hospitality after the summer time. This is a justamental stand that no one understands. The astronomical time is 22 o'clock, the summer time is 23 o'clock, and the behavior, the wishes, the needs of the guests are directed towards it. An apprentice can only work and be productive when guests are there. He must be productive, for if he was not productive, he could not be compensated for apprentices; that is quite logical. And that you don't let him work until 23 o'clock is a purely Justament stand, but obviously, Justament stands go before youth employment. I regret that. They will reject it again in the third attempt; there will certainly be a fourth. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: A failed request!]] I can still tell you that we have requested a separate vote on Article I and Article II of the present bill, because we want to accept Article I at second reading, but Article II is going to reject it at second reading, simply because I consider an increase in health insurance contributions to be counter-funding to reduce the health insurance contributions of apprentices to the wrong path. This measure will help apprentices a little – that is not a question at all; depending on how many employees employ them – but overall we are turning back on the contribution screw because we are not brave enough to make a reform approach. Finally, let me read an amendment with a point that you may not have thought of during the legislative process. It is about that, following your model, you only involve the apprentices in this reduction. They have forgotten the students because the students – for example, civil technicians, dental technicians, kindergarten assistants – do not work in a commercial business, so there can be no teaching relationship. Nevertheless, a learning relationship is equally a job for young people. Why do you get if Have you already wanted this regulation and today they will also decide – not with our voice – not with the students? These are just as similar to the apprentices – just outside of commercial businesses – as students can be used. [[Abg. Koppler: Do not confuse an apprentice with a learner for God’s sake! An learner is an auxiliary worker! That's crazy!]] Mr Koppler! There can be no difference whether a young person, who is trained, receives this training in a commercial enterprise – saying: dual system – or at a civil engineer, dental technician or kindergarten assistant. This is also a form of training, but because it is not a business, dual teaching does not take place there. You can reject the application. We suggest to you, however, because he is also an opportunity to give young people an entry into the profession. [[Quoted print version removed]] Students also obviously have a form of teaching relationship outside the trade order. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17238	The request just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Steibl is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17262	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! If I am right, we are now discussing the item on the agenda on "Employment of children and young people", but since I have heard Mr Gaugg or have seen what performance he has staged here, I wonder if he believes that something that was decided one or two days ago or was taken in the way could have been implemented before yesterday. Maybe as a powerful vice-bourgeois master, you did it that way. [[Abg. Gaugg: Years ago I employed apprentices and had a success!]] Tell us how many apprenticeship jobs You created it in Klagenfurt! [[Abg. Gaugg: Where I was responsible, it worked!]] Or: They say we're so bad. - Yeah, we're not lying well. We need to do something, but maybe you've already had this manual in your hand. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] It states that Austria is still a leader in the European Union, and yet we are doing something. [[Abg. Gaugg: You are working on the fact that soon it will not be so!]] We don't cry sickly, but we're doing acts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: You slept for years!]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: The breaks have been deleted!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Now you're getting nervous!]] Youth employment is the most important issue at all, and we know that if young people find no work, then human tragedy can occur. [[Abg. Gaugg: How about Mr. Praschak!]] I'm just telling you one thing: I'm not going to go into you anymore. I do not take you seriously, because your posture also shows me that you are not at all interested in the matter, but only in the staging. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Merciful woman! You see the bad conscience!]] The currently prevailing youth unemployment will certainly bring with it a difficult situation in the near future, which we want to change. That is why we have repeatedly called for a youth employment plan from the ÖVP, first of all the ÖAAB with Federal Minister Fassleven. [[Abg. Gaugg: Super! What of it is realized?]] I therefore welcome today's reform – tomorrow we will decide on a further part of better conditions for apprenticeship training – because this presentation for the employment of children and young people shows that in the next few days there will be some progress and that this will also be a milestone for young people looking for an apprenticeship. It is an opportunity and also the opportunity to make progress with a solid condition. With this programme of the Federal Government, we will also be dealing with this decline, which you have spoken about and which is bad enough, in the near future. However, if you are talking about youth employment and apprenticeship training, you must not forget the other importance of this area, for our small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. It is highly interesting – and many do not know that – that 50 percent of Austrian entrepreneurs themselves once completed an apprenticeship. I believe that here the term "carrier with teaching" has a very important background. [[Abg. Gaugg: Where did this get? Where did that work, madam?]] – Did you do something in Klagenfurt, sir? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I believe that we must now move on to the second phase, namely the introduction of new teaching professions. [[Abg. Gaugg: Have you trained apprentices in the city buildings?]] – Listening Please! Do you know what new occupations are? Mrs. Gehrer and Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner will be happy to tell you this or to send it to you. For example, from autumn there will be new teaching professions such as plant electricians, mechanical mechanics and so on. I note here that we also need to think intensively about new teaching professions for girls and force them to do so. Especially girls today – even through the family situation – are being pushed into these traditional professions and have to or want to go into them. We must certainly act faster in this area. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Yes!]] But I also believe that targeted vocational guidance is more necessary than ever. This training initiative is also a point in the Government Convention of the Austrian Federal Government. There is a wealth of measures that will not only remain measures. They can be assured that in the near future – beginning with autumn and next year – these measures will be implemented, whether through the labour market service or through public authorities. [[Abg. Gaugg: Look, trust, who?- Oh, my God!]] I think we can just go a little further here, for example, with the idea of starting jobs. This proposal is strongly supported by Styria and could be adopted throughout the federal territory to enable young people between 15 and 25 years of age who have a degree in school or study but do not have any work of involving a certain amount of time in the professional life, in order to employ them for a longer period of time or to continue to work. With this form of start-up jobs, we could immediately hold 10 000 jobs for a certain period of time or offer a form of training, as it is often called for, namely training with practice. Finally, I would like to say: Let's give the youth a chance to have a practical and high-quality training! In this way we will continue a lot, especially with the proposals that are now on the table and are being implemented safely in this Youth Employment Initiative package.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17489	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17511	It is even shorter, Mr President. In fact, I would like to make a few comments on this draft in general. Since my colleague, Peter, has played a ball to me, I have to record him. Mr Peter! If it were to be true that teaching is the best place to work, where the system is the most economically friendly and where the firms have the lowest cost, then I should be able to explain why it does not work in Switzerland, where these conditions apply, why it does not work in the Federal Republic of Germany, where there is also a dual training system, which is still cheaper for companies than the Austrian system, why training young people everywhere in Europe, whether in the dual system or outside, does not work and does not have any opportunities for young people in the labour markets. If it were really that this was an Austrian specification, because we were too expensive to train here, then it would be easy, then only we would have the problem. However, all the other countries have – and this has been the case in the figures – this problem, and especially those countries that have taken the most economically friendly measures have the biggest problems. There are countries where youth entry into the labour market is regulated in such a way that they can be employed in wages far below the collectively agreed wages. In these countries, the system does not work at all – despite this opening up for young people. That's the problem. [[Abg. Gaugg: Let something happen to you!]] Mr Peter! In my view, it is really true that the companies in this competition, in which they are part, of course try to dispel all costs for training, for further training, for training, up to the courses at the AMS where the teaching of washing is paid – for example Upper Austria – and to give it off. But that's not how it works! In this way, the dual training system cannot function. That is why I am not in any way convinced that this argument has its authority. The companies want to outsource their costs; that is their good right. On the other hand, however, it is the right and the obligation of the company to ask the firms for their training obligations, not only for young people. I also think it is wrong that the training or training of older people should be outsourced, as far as possible, to the institutions of the State to take over these costs. [[Abg. Gaugg: In large-scale coalition form!]] But the state, because people get less busy, also has less money to finance it. That means it's pretty much in the circle. We will not deal with this problem in this way. In my opinion, of course – and this has also been mentioned in our request – the State has to take responsibility for training. He has to train first apprentices what he does not do or only to an insufficient extent, even though in recent months this in individual Federal services has been somewhat improved thanks to God. As a general rule, however, this training is carried out by the State to a totally inadequate extent. The State and the public enterprises face this responsibility for training. That's unacceptable! They have the same obligations to train, and they could also do so if they were to be stopped. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the training levy is, of course, not off the table, because, of course, it would also have to meet state or half-state enterprises to the same extent and would also have to commit them to the responsibility of training. However, the State has another obligation. He also has the obligation to control teaching. I think it is wrong for the Chamber of Commerce to control the training. I think it is wrong to minimize the training of teachers rather than improve them. I think it is wrong that the training of vocational teachers is not optimal. We all know this in the hall. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the demands of our motion for a resolution are still justified, and that is why I still think it is wrong what is actually being tried in the request of the government groups by believing that we can solve this question by means of a small amount of non-conformity to the economy. I believe that this is the wrong way, Mr Peter, and, of course, the address of the government parties. Look around abroad! You will notice a lot of what happens not only in Austria but also in other countries, and what should be the reason to discuss this question more fundamentally.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17564	Mrs Silhavy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17586	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The amendment of the Federal Law on the Employment of Children and Youth and, in this context, the ASVG are part of an extensive package of measures to give Austrian youth the opportunity to have a high-quality training. Mr Peter! The lack of quality of apprenticeship is likely to be the result of the outsourcing of training and training costs, the decline in the number of apprenticeships, but also of the lack of quality of apprenticeship training. So there are probably gaps in apprenticeship training, and you yourself, when you look at these numbers in the final examinations, will realize that we do not have such a high-quality apprenticeship everywhere. [[Abg. May. Peter: But less drop-outs than in the BHS for example!]] – Think of gas and water installation and so on. I don't need to mention these numbers, you'll probably know them just as well as I do. But the labour market service – because the public has been addressed before – has already responded a long time ago. Today, for example, 1.4 billion schillings are spent to support the youth groups. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Thank God!]] I would just like to list a few ongoing measures from the Styria market. These include the Youth Labour Foundation in Graz, the "Mädchen und Technik" project, various professional orientation measures, the "Young People", active groups for young people and more. In Styria, a total of 820 young people are currently participating in such measures. In particular, through social-democratic initiatives in the Federal Government, efforts in the trade union and the involvement of the social partners, appropriate framework conditions have already been created in the past with the aim of ensuring the training of young people in high-quality forms. Indirectly, this colleague, Mr Oellinger, confirmed earlier, by quoting other training systems similar to those in other countries as examples which work even less than ours. [[Abg. Gaugg: Because you're ruining the economy, you have to create artificial jobs!]] Mr Gaugg! Someone who spells out certain words as much as you do is not a dialogue for me, not even in this House. I'll tell you that right now and at this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Because you ruin the economy, you have to create artificial jobs!]] The government template discussed today undoubtedly includes concessions to the economy and is therefore – unfortunately, Mr Peter is no longer there – to be called a compromise in order to win companies to open up a chance for young people. But now the economy will have to prove that it too is willing to take responsibility for the people of Austria and for the future of our country. [[Abg. Gaugg: Ruin the economy and create artificial jobs!]] However, in this debate I do not wish to fail to point out a maladministration which I believe needs to be resolved as quickly as possible. The head of the apprenticeship office in the Steiermark Chamber of Commerce criticises the apprenticeship package with the following words – I quote from the "Little Newspaper" of 17. 4. 1997 –: "Even if you've set the biggest nose drill, you won't let it go." Or: "After 22 o'clock the apprentice is not allowed to work, but he is allowed to go all night." If the head of the apprenticeship office so explores his function, then one will have to consider seeking a reorganisation in this area as soon as possible. [[Abg. Gaugg: There are also interesting people in the ÖGB workshop in Krumpendorf!]] From this point of view, a person who is there to protect the young people and who has to work as a nostrils, who are working all night long, must suffer consequences. [[Abg. Gaugg: If you don't know that, I'll tell you!]] It is necessary to think more quickly about dissociating the apprenticeship from the field of activity of the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Gaugg: There was also a ladder in Krumpendorf! The former vice-bourgeois master! That's interesting too!]] But now I come back to the government template and have to submit an amendment in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: The time has expired!]] For us Social Democrats, people are at the heart of politics. This also includes the responsibility of providing young people with the best possible living and future conditions to individual people, in this case to young people. That is why we are voting in favour of this government proposal as part of the special programme for young people.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17775	The amendment just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17799	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The statistics available to us all clearly show the disastrous development in the field of teaching and youth employment for years on end. The number of apprentices has fallen by one third since 1979; youth unemployment is increasing. Even though Mr Koppler says that we have a youth unemployment of about 4 per cent, while it is 20 per cent in the EU, we must be aware that we are moving slowly, but surely in this direction, if we do not counter it and do nothing against it. The Federal Government is now long enough to counter this development, but has not done anything to date. I also refer to pensions in this context. A year ago, the then Social Minister, Hums, said that pensions were insured, and today it is said that pensions are no longer insured and that we have to create a longer calculation period. The same will be true in the case of youth unemployment, because in this area the same developments can be observed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] You have to look at the facts! We must all strive to reduce youth unemployment and make teaching more attractive. I believe that the reasons why apprenticeship training is not attractive at the moment and that the number of apprenticeships and the number of open apprenticeships in Austria is in outdated occupations, poor pay, excessive protection provisions and the tax burden on apprenticeships, as well as the fact that no scholarships are paid for apprentices. Another reason is the high insolvency rates. Of course, an image improvement is necessary, but of course it is not enough that you only advertise posters for "carriers with teaching" – and let them use them. You can't do it that easy! Instead, it will be necessary to increase financial resources in order to revitalize the apprenticeship market. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! An apprentice in Austria must not be downgraded to a second-class youth and clearly disadvantaged to students and students. In order to achieve these objectives, however, it is necessary to increase the resources available for this purpose. Apprenticeships must be increased. Currently an apprentice of the public hand is worth 6 000 S, while an AHS student costs the public hand 60 000 S a year. That is why it really has to be supported, yes, to the benefit of apprentices! The same is true of the free accommodation in apprentice homes. There are also great differences. If an apprentice is employed in an industrial enterprise, this apprentice's home is to be paid by the service provider, otherwise he must pay the accommodation himself. There must be the same directives in this regard! If I now see in this government template that this is a reduction in the protection of young people to the completion of the 18th century. I can, of course, agree with that year of life. This is a way in the right direction, as is the regulation regarding working out in connection with holidays adjusted to those of adults. I can only welcome that. I also think it makes sense that a baker's apprentice in the sense of his vocational training now after completion of the 15th century. Life year from 4 o'clock in the early days of the year may be employed in the holding, no question. There are some useful points in this template. [[Abg. Koppler: Look at you!]] But there are relatively few, and these regulations are far too late, one could have responded much earlier, Mr Koppler! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: They come a lot too late!]] Correct: They're coming too late! I also think that the complete withdrawal of health insurance contributions in the first three years is useful for the service provider and the withdrawal of health insurance contributions for the first two years of apprenticeship. This regulation clearly shows us how "far-reaching" the Federal Government always addresses or addresses the question of apprentices! It was only in autumn last year that it was decided that there should be a reduction in health insurance contributions in this area. – Not even half a year has passed now, and you can change it again! I do not quite understand why, Mrs Bundesminister, the employer of employees actually has to make the difference and pay 0.1 percent more health insurance contributions as part of the service provider's contribution. In my opinion, this should be done by the public authorities. Just as the public hand is more involved with the students and the students, it should also do so with apprentices – and not condemn the service provider who employs the employee! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now to my request, which is to be dealt with, because there are other problems in the employment of young people. For example, if, by changing the time count to summertime, the need for work is shifted in time, but one is currently legally directed according to the astronomical time, I think it makes sense that this is changed, because the night's rest remains the same and the working time remains the same and does not change. But if someone can start his work an hour later in the morning or with his training in a gastronomy business, he can also stop an hour later. That makes sense. This request has already been rejected and postponed a few times. Finally, you agree! For at a time when working time is becoming more flexible, it would certainly be useful! I now make the appropriate request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The protection of young people, ladies and gentlemen, which is to be guaranteed by § 17 of the Law on Child and Youth Employment, is in no way affected by this, because the burden on the persons concerned is not increased, but is currently ignored by the summer time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17913	The request just read has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17937	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I would like to say to the dual vocational training system that I believe there is a fundamental consensus in this regard in our country. We can be very proud of the fact that we have this training system, because we are able to achieve high quality of the work performance so that our skilled workers have an internationally recognised status. In view of this, it is important to work towards the further development of this dual vocational training system. When you confess to this system – and the top representatives of the economy also confess to this training system! – then it is also legitimate to demand from the economy, above all, that they take care of their own young people, since of course they have an interest in maintaining this quality for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I consider it a co-responsible responsibility of the Federal Government and politics to take appropriate accompanying measures. I would just like to point out that under the labour market service, 20 percent of the funding budget for apprenticeship support, for qualification measures, for financial support for enterprises are spent. That's an amount of 1.4 billion schilling. I believe that this is proof that policy is also supporting action. However, the primary responsibility lies with those undertakings, including the public sector which do the training itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! As we are discussing the Child and Youth Employment Act today: This is to be seen as part of an overall bill package, which will be completed tomorrow. I therefore believe that it is important to make some fundamental comments on the law that is now under discussion. I consider it useful to check, at certain intervals, whether or not they are in accordance with practice and whether they are applied in a reasonable manner. Nevertheless, especially in the youth, the idea of protection must always be in the foreground. I believe that the same balance has been found in those amendments which are currently under discussion or on the basis of the decision-making process. On the one hand, we have made adjustments to the provisions of the EU Directive, but on the other hand we have also proposed very specific measures with regard to our provisions in the Child and Youth Employment Act. I would like to give a few brief examples: Many provisions eventually adapted to adult working hours, such as breaks. In practice, it is really not useful for workers and employees to have very different breaks than apprentices. This also concerns the introduction of holidays, because it is really not in practice that one group of self-employed people is employed, while the corresponding rules do not apply to those in training. – I could mention further examples. I therefore believe that with this revision of the Child and Youth Employment Act, we have again taken a step towards adapting to practice and have thus found a modern protection law which provides additional relief in practice for both parts: both for young people and for teachers or trainers. I would like to point out a second point which you are now discussing and which I hope will also be decided upon. I believe that this measure also provides financial support for enterprises that train apprentices. However, the Community should be responsible for ensuring that a certain balance of interests is found within the economy. In practice, many firms that do not train apprentices, but then very well-trained skilled workers, at the expense of another company, ultimately benefit from the large number of enterprises that train apprentices. I therefore believe that it was a real step to reach a political consensus that by increasing the health insurance contribution by 0.1% on the employer's side, those funds that can be used to ensure that those enterprises that train apprentices in the first, second and third years of teaching do not have to make a health insurance contribution for them. I think that this approach, with the provisions on youth protection and with what you will be discussing in the field of vocational training tomorrow, will be a package with which we can actually achieve a significant improvement in the apprenticeship situation in the autumn. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== I would like to make two more comments on this debate. Mr Dolinschek referred to the question of vocational training. I believe that tomorrow will be an opportunity to discuss the extent to which we are setting new accents on the revision of the vocational training law and also on new occupations in connection with the trade regulations. For it has been criticized that new occupations have not yet been found in the law. I hope that these considerations of the Federal Government will also find the approval of the House. Mr Peter is not in the room at the moment. I would nevertheless like to give him a brief indication because he has also mentioned the professions and the teaching. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: I will tell him about it!]] - Please! – I do not see in the teaching even an equivalent equivalent to vocational training. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, I believe that it is important to also win the professional group of professional professions in order to train more apprentices. We therefore propose approaches for the professions so that they also make themselves more available as apprentices for apprentices. However, something is very important: It must be ensured, when apprenticeships are trained, that the quality standards formulated in the dual vocational training system are met. I am confident that the debate tomorrow will succeed in creating appropriate provisions for this professional group, so that it will be possible to obtain another range of teaching opportunities. I would also like to thank you for the discussion and hope that we will now achieve a clear improvement for the future of our youth.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17998	The next speech is by Mr Dr. Drinkl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18019	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we see a falling willingness to train our businesses. This falling willingness to learn is also of great concern to the coalition. That is why, when this coalition was closed, we immediately went on to bind up a comprehensive apprenticeship package. The reasons for a fall in the willingness to train firms are varied. Mrs Silhavy! I admit: Everyone can get happy after their fascism. We call those establishments that ultimately offer teaching facilities, the cost situation, the rules that hinder them, and of course also complain of the imbalance between the presence in the workplace and the presence in the vocational school. If it is rightly said that the labour market service spends a lot of money to promote additional apprenticeships, then it would also be allowed to point out that, of course, 1 billion schilling could also be used up in many training establishments. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: A stronger movement!]] I am even sure that it will come about. We probably both know from practice that both approaches lead to success. But, of course, everyone is convinced that his approach is the better, so do I. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you want to solve this problem, you have to respond to the wishes and also the arguments of the firms and shape the framework conditions in such a way that the firms are willing to recruit apprentices again. Mr Oellinger has now left, unfortunately God. I hope that in no teaching firm has one heard his remarks on how, according to his ideas, apprenticeship training is to work throughout Austria. That would not be beneficial to God. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why?]] We would have been pleased if the liberals had been in committee and had presented their ideas there. But you have, as it were, taken special leave, and today you come with long amendments! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: You've been in the coalition for ten years! So you've had ten years, but you haven't done anything!]] Let us have this discussion. You two came back brown-burned today. I'm not jealous of you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are confessing to the present novel of the Child and Youth Employment Act. The Minister has already explained the positive approaches, so I can save myself. I just want to mention something: Mrs. Minister! Criticism has, in the past, been voiced especially by the famous regulation on the law on the employment of children and young people, which regulates the prohibited work. We all know that the bans were strict and obsolete. I believe that the new regulation offers the tremendous opportunity to send a signal to businesses that they are more willing to recruit apprentices. I would therefore like to strongly support a common concern of the Styrian social partners, who have formulated the Chamber of Workers, the Trade Union Confederation and the Steiermark Chamber of Commerce: It's time to get rid of the previous path! Instead of many casuistic, strict rules, a common principle was formulated, which reads as follows: The apprentice shall be kept away from any source of danger and shall be informed where risks may arise. Mrs. Minister! Mr Hums and I agreed that the term "valuation" should no longer be used in the mouth. If the Workers' Protection Act and that term are to have a meaning, then the risks at the workplace should be identified. One should require proof of the teaching of the apprentices in this regard. If the apprentice is trained, the danger is forbidden. We should not, however, go back to casuistic regulations! We still have three weeks: I really would like to include this proposal, which was jointly drawn up by the social partners. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There is already a hopeful approach in today's novelle, in § 8 para. 3 lit. d of the draft you sent. This is a small approach, perhaps extending it to the whole problem. I therefore hope that this regulation will bring us a huge step forward and will mean tremendous progress for all of us together. We should not care if young people are given jobs and apprenticeships. From this point of view, we will be dealing with the problem of youth unemployment, better: youth employment will continue to pay our full attention – and we will do so too!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18104	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - She has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18134	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this discussion, much has already been said about "reform package", of "measure package". All the measures announced here should contribute to enhancing the really threatening and very critical situation that will arise with the entry of final school graduates into the labour market. I believe that this situation will really become quite critical. Mrs. Ridi Steibl said: We are taking action! . I feel rather that in the present situation, whose development has been clearly legible for years now, we are trying to save what can be saved quickly in a kind of crisis management. And I am very concerned that these measures will not take the form of what you imagine. If the SPÖ demands that the economy be more involved and more responsive, and if Mr Oellinger complains that the economy is simply outsourced or is trying to outsource the training costs, I would like to say from the economy that it has been responsible for 50 percent of young people for many years. This share has now been reduced to 40 percent. However, the economy is willing to continue this training if it is given the appropriate framework conditions. At the same time, it should also be possible to make this training system more attractive not only for the economy but also for young and powerful people, so that we get more motivated, committed young people into this system and not all these young people move into the vocational education system, many of which then belong to the recessors and the countless recessors. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We have already discussed the school in detail today and talked about how successful our folk school is in international comparison. There are, of course, other studies, and, in particular, economic complaints and the argument that one of the main reasons for starting training in firms is the lack of qualified candidates. I am very concerned whether financial support will be sufficient through the labour market service and the various national governments. I can tell you: In Tyrol, in spite of massive financial support from AMS and the Office of the Tyrolean Government, 260 young school leavers last year do not yet have a training place, and we are now expecting 3,700 more school leavers. The situation will therefore intensify dramatically. So what we really need is a real reform, otherwise this sheer will move ever further apart. I would like to mention two specific figures from Tyrol: The willingness of firms to train has fallen by 47 percent, while now 18 percent more job seekers are on the market. On the other hand, there are overcrowded bras and demolition rates, which cost billions. And because we have just talked about the quality of the Austrian school: 20 per cent of 20 to 25 years of age have no education beyond compulsory schooling, and these are, as the statistics show, most at risk of unemployment. You have announced a reform package. I do not want to be unjust, but I must say: The remaining social partnership is a zero solution. There are some small steps, but they will not bring about the great change – as I fear – because they will not improve the attractiveness of this training to the extent that the economy wanted it in the last consequence. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We will still have time tomorrow to discuss the vocational training law and the professional maturity test. The latter also does not meet the objective of making training more attractive, because there are no accompanying conditions. [[Abg. Schuster: You weren't in the committee!]] The draft official, which is available under § 46, provides for differentiation as far as possible and perhaps free items. – There is already that, and that could not be used even now. We admit: It is a positive step that the Child and Youth Employment Act now sets the end of youth protection for apprentices at 18 years of age and is similar to the other young people on this point. It is positive that there are flexibilisations and adaptations to the EU Directive. All of this will not really help to eliminate one of the main reasons for the decline in the employment of apprentices, which the economy calls, namely the cost of this apprenticeship training. In fact, if you make a discharge with the health insurance contributions of apprentices, but then in the area of employees you raise the insurance contributions, this is just a redeployment. This will increase the additional wage costs and will not increase the attractiveness of this system for the companies in the final consequence. In addition, you do not take into account in any way that there are also companies with a high proportion of employees who cannot or must not train apprentices but still have to bear these increased additional wage costs. Mr Oellinger's motion for a resolution – I am still horrified at your statements! – Mr Peter has already given an opinion. The reason is in itself contradictory. [[Abg. Oils: Not at all!]] The claim that training is a business for the entrepreneur, and the assumption that he starts training out of jux and tollery at all does not fit in at all! We will have two major problems in the future: We will not only have to fight against youth unemployment. We will not only face this problem and all the follow-up costs, but also, above all, we will also have a shortage of skilled skilled workers, and this will have a very negative impact on our economic competitiveness. The effort to increase the attractiveness of this vocational training through the professional training test is, as I think, an abuse. I have already said that in this context all the accompanying measures are missing and that the necessary flexibility for expanding vocational schooling cannot be applied by the economy for cost reasons. As a result, in the final consequence, our demand to decouple operational and school education in terms of social and wage law also results, because we can only offer higher educational qualifications under the participation of a reformed vocational school. And these are necessary because only through higher education qualifications will committed and powerful young people be encouraged to enter this dual education system. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to make the dual training system attractive, then neither slogans nor cost shifts, nor small corrections will be targeted, but then you will have to start real reforms for apprentices and businesses. In my opinion, however, this package of measures is far from meeting these requirements!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18205	The next speaker is Mrs Krammer. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18226	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The apprenticeship package is an absolutely welcome measure of the Federal Government, especially since the knowledge of the fact that the economy has actually been adopted by the training - I can only repeat what Mrs Minister said - of its own young age. If you listen to Ridi Steibl, you get the impression that there is no union, no resistance, no Nuremberger, no hums and no hostash. Everything the ÖVP did. I can only say that – please direct it –: Ridi, take off the scumbags! It's not like she said that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ridi, take off the scams!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does that mean? That's what they say only in horses that they have to take the scams off!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Charming!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a way of dealing with each other!]] What remains to be done with regard to this apprenticeship package is to stop young people from actually accepting the offers that have been created with this package and not to remain arrested and relinquishing in traditional teaching professions if there are not. They should, in fact, accept with both hands the opportunities offered by this apprenticeship package. However, a question remains open which needs to be looked at more closely and for which one has to offer a solution. I think I can offer the solution; that is, I have done it already. We have young people we want to offer apprenticeships, we say young people should go to schools, but there will be a large number of young people who do not find apprenticeships. There'll be a big rest. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Are you going to put them in the employment funds so that the unemployment rates are not so high?]] Slow down! These children are supposed to go to schools, that is right, but you can very difficult to persuade children who have not intended to go to school from home. If some of them were perhaps persuaded to go to a particular school, it is difficult for teachers to work with these children because they are not willing to perform services and – I say it in parentheses – they may also be unable to achieve the desired achievements. That is why you should not put these young people into a regular group, into a regular class, because otherwise there are two types of students in this one group, in this one class, namely those who had the intention of attending this school from the house, and the others who are just because they have not found a teaching place, in this school – most of the time it will be a commercial school; wait for a bit, I am not finished – takes up. [[Abg. Gaugg: Who will teach them? Who will teach these students?]] Moreover, if you were to follow this model because it is larger groups and larger classes, more teachers would be needed. We don't have any money for this one. Therefore, for the project "temporary training of young people in secondary schools", I have already proposed this, and I have already spoken to the AMS in this regard: There should be an offer for the children at the schools, but in the afternoon, because most school buildings are empty in the afternoon. [[Abg. Gaugg: Who will teach them? Who is the cost of 5 600 young people?]] [[Abg. Aumayr: The schoolchildren should learn in the afternoon!]] So you can bring the children to school in the afternoon, offer them tailor-made training and train them in skills that prove to be lacking. I have already developed a model with my teachers at my school. Teachers are also ready – not all are required, but only certain subjects – to go to school in the afternoon and pick up the knowledge deficit with these children. [[Abg. Gaugg: Free or how?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, that's what the school director, to whom she took away the desk!]] This is a reasonable model of which I am convinced that it is correct. I hope we succeed in putting it into reality. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18411	Next speaker is Mrs Edeltraud Gatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18471	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I think the subject has already been discussed very thoroughly. Today, we are dealing only with a part of the entire apprenticeship package of the government and all the projects we are planning. Some targeted measures have already led to the fact that, according to the report on the labour market situation at the end of May 1997, we already have 994 employees aged 19 to 25 years. I mean, that's a first, but small, success. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: That must not be true! What are you doing here? We're talking about the apprentices!]] Look, you're probably reading these reports rarely. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: He doesn't know her at all!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: You're talking like the blind one about the color!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, she's talking to scams! That's what Mrs. Krammer said!]] If you are talking about the apprentices today, I must say that you did not look closely at the government template either, because I have listened to you and found that you were only very on the verge or almost not at all concerned with the presentation, but you have gratified more or less about all the fields and picked everywhere a supposed flower of the FPÖ, which, however, really did not invent you, but that all was basically long content of preliminary talks by the government, and you have chosen a lot of things there. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Copper]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Go! Go!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: There are digits how many apprentices are looking for an apprenticeship!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I know that it is certainly the worst thing for parents and young people to do when they are looking for a job, when they are looking for a apprenticeship and writing a really innumerable job, but still do not get a place to teach. This is the worst thing that can happen to a youth. [[Abg. Gaugg: Just because the conditions are not right! Because you ruined the economy! You slept her!]] For example, if you or colleague Dolinschek says that something has to change in the context, I ask: [[Abg. Gaugg: That's what you've slept!]] What about the fact that this proposal has now changed the framework conditions? [[Abg. Dolinschek: That should have been much earlier!]] For example, apprentices will become 18 years old. In the future, years of life will in general no longer be subject to the Youth Employment Act, but they will be treated like all other workers. What's wrong with that? They also criticize that. [[Abg. Gaugg: The WIFI will train apprentices!]] If, for example, you had been in the committee, you would know that I have already talked about the fact that I would be in favour of the fact that we should consider with tourism instructors that they can work until 23 a.m. in summer. [[Abg. Dolinschek: We have never been able to change an example in the Committee!]] But in many political groups there are scams, and this has failed, for example, on the scavengers of the ÖGB. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Yes, at the ÖVP above all!]] I have to say that at this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's why the woman Krammer said: Down the scams!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You also need to consider how apprentices who are employed until 23 o’clock are paid!]] When we talk about benefits and earnings, I ask what apprenticeship funds do you, for example, make available the funds, since you have always boycotted the meetings? But we're going to discuss that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: "The scumbags down!" Mrs. Krammer said!]] I mean, the withdrawal of health insurance contributions for apprentices is very important: This benefits the framework conditions of the entrepreneurs who are relieved from the cost side, but above all this also benefits the apprentices. We have also discussed the variant that, as long as they are in the teaching, the apprentices should be insured with the parents. The solution now found is much more positive for the apprentices, because of course they have a protection when they go into illness. [[Abg. Gaugg: Everything is not bad what your group is doing!]] This is also very important for women, because it always occurs that female apprentices become pregnant, and they have not yet had a right to karenz leave. I think that's a very good solution. You have to say that here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since we are talking about child and youth work today, I wanted to deal primarily with child labour in the world in my speech to and for myself. [[Abg. Dolinschek: This is important!]] In my opinion, it is not legitimate to hold a debate here in this House on child labour and youth work and not to note that there are between 100 and 250 million children worldwide who really have to work under the most unworthy conditions that must work on the streets, in factories and in agriculture. [[Abg. Gaugg: (Applause) Bravo! Let's stop it together!]] I think we should at least mention these circumstances in such a debate, because we must not close our eyes; just as little as before our own problems in Austria. It is important that we also take care of these children in remote countries and that we seek solutions here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I believe that the most important solution would be to lay down social clauses in trade agreements and trade agreements. For as long as child labour is not noticed or punished internationally more or less as long as it is produced cheaply with the help of child labour, as long as bitter products are produced with cheap wages, nothing will change here for so long. I think this is where we are called together to do a lot of things. And since employment for young people is currently the most important issue and should also be the most important issue in politics, it would really be welcome if the opposition parties also contributed positively to a solution.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18799	The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18829	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Gaugg: Also nice brown-burned!]] My brown color comes from the gardening work, Mr. Cot, if you are already calling a annoying remark by the way. It is not due to the fact that I would not have been present at the committee meetings of the last few weeks. That's different. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In Austria we continue to rely on a very high level and very high standards. Mrs Gatterer just referred to youth and child labour in other countries. We don't have that because we're just spoiled. We are spoiled by our environment, by the social situation. If we can continue to look at an excellent position in terms of the labour market and the youth labour market in Europe, then this may be very nice, but we also know and have to note that some young people still do not find a job. This is partly due to regional location factors, local educational concentrations, lack of training prospects, low training, or – and I believe that is one of the main reasons – the decline in apprenticeships. Therefore, not only labour market policies, but also training and employment policies are necessary, which go beyond the reform of apprenticeship training and the programme focus of the AMS. We were able to hear positive sounds yesterday and today from the reports of the media and from the Federal Ministers of the Government's clature in so far as there is an apprenticeship package, a project in which there is really strong, increased space for youth employment. [[Abg. Gaugg: A good robbery!]] It is planned that work teams - employed at the employment offices, the AMS, the teachers and staff - will have to take care of each individual apprentice that there will be a project management of the countries in which municipalities and other local authorities should take up apprentices. There should be incentives for freelancers, according to which these apprentices can also be recruited by the removal of the training examination. In their statement, some even go so far as to say that in public procurement, there should be a preference for those companies to take up apprentices. If these measures are not sufficient, the creation of apprenticeship foundations, already mentioned today, is a good opportunity for young boys and girls who, despite everything, do not find a teaching place. Finally, the whole is to be subjected to a controlling and a review of the effectiveness, through clearing committees of the government, of its actual effectiveness. The reasons for the reform of the Child and Youth Employment Act lie in the aim of increasing the number of young people in dual training. Similarly, the number of training establishments should be increased. It is about the level and potential of quality in terms of social security and the economic development of Austria, but also with regard to the EU. It is about ensuring the quality of vocational training, facilitating access for apprentices and also facilitating teaching establishments. The permeability to other education systems should be maintained and, where necessary, strengthened. Today, the Federal Minister mentioned the adaptation of the provisions on child and youth protection to industrial realities. This means, on the one hand, raising the attractiveness of training for the employer while maintaining the level of protection. I think that is a very, very important demand that comes to us. Not to be overlooked: The scope of the Child and Youth Employment Act will now be uniform until the completion of the 18th century. This will facilitate training firms in the years of life. The exception is the prohibition of chord work, the inclusion of vocational schooling in working hours and the provision that any overtime is paid at the level of the skilled worker's wage or employee's salary. There are certainly some provisions which at first glance look as if they only give advantages to businesses as to whether the working time in trade is on Saturday until 5 p.m., which also applies to young people, whether this is the possibility of introducing window days in more flexible arrangements for the benefit of the holding, but also, ultimately, the integration of young people into the business cycle. I think – and this has been mentioned several times today – that the relief of teaching firms from the health insurance contributions for apprentices by applying the funds within the economy should be supported. Here, the loss of service providers' contributions to health insurance takes place in the first three years of teaching, with an increase in service providers' contributions to the health insurance of employees by 0.1 percent for the cost relief of training firms. At the same time, this is a contribution to the burden balance between trainees and non-trainers. The entry into force of apprenticeship training reforms is 1. In July 1997, and tomorrow we will continue to discuss many possibilities in the school sector – school organisation law and school education law – but in the apprenticeship training sector, this reform, I believe, is an essential step. We're all supposed to go together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18886	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. There is no wish for a final word on the part of the rapporteur. We therefore come to the votes. I ask you to take the seats. It is agreed on the draft law, title and receipt in 723 of the Supplements. Mr Kier and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. Mr Mag. The main request for a separate vote has been made. Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment or amendment. Finally, Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. Mr Mag. Peter has also asked for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the request for separate vote or by the amendments or supplementary proposals referred to above and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall therefore first vote on Rule I Z 1, 4 and 8 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give him their approval to give a sign of confirmation. – This is decided by a very large majority. Deputies Dolinschek and comrades have requested the inclusion of a new Z 9a in Article I. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this motion to give Dolinschek a sign in this regard. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A very large minority!]] In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment with regard to Rule I Z14. I should also like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour give a sign of approval. – This too has not found a majority and is therefore rejected. Members Reitsamer and Dr. Feurstein have tabled an amendment to Rule I Z 14. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. This amendment was adopted by the majority of the House. I shall now vote on the remaining parts of Article I, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. In the event of consent, I may request a sign. This vote is a majority in favour of Article I, as amended by the Committee's report, provided that it has not been voted before. Deputies Dr Kier and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article II(57a). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to Kier's request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on Article II, Section 57a, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree to this sign. – § 57a, as amended by the Committee's report, was adopted by a majority. I shall vote on the remaining parts of Article II which have not yet been voted on as part of the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an important sign. . I note that these remaining parts of Article II as amended by the Committee's report have been adopted by a majority majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the title and receipt of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Here again, in the event of approval, I ask for an important sign. – This vote shall end by a majority for the title and receipt of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. This concludes the second reading. We are now voting in third reading on this draft law. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. I note that the draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. Finally, we have to vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gaugg and Mr Comrades on the broad attraction of teaching. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Gaugg's motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. That is what we have done with this item on the agenda. 10. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 458/A by Mr Franz Hums, Mr Mag. Helmut Kukackaund comrades concerning the Railway Operating Constitution Act – BBVG (724 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18944	We're now on the 10th. Agenda item. There is no proposal for reporting. That is what we are going to enter into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Meisinger. The speaking time is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18975	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! According to the Post Operating Constitution Act a year ago, the Railway Operating Constitution Act is now being used for treatment. It concerns the 58 000 remaining ÖBB staff. Over the last one and a half years, about 8,000 railers have been dismantled in this area, partly in a very dubious and unsightly way. On the other side is on 1st. On 1 August 1997, the Board of Directors of the Austrian Federal Railways increased generously from three to five members. This happens, of course, after the usual party policy propor: three reds, two blacks – just like in the past. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is the usual supply policy of the government for its outlet models. There is, as it should not be expected otherwise, no cry from socialist railway workers and personnel representatives, not even a critical remark that this is not in the sense of an economic leadership of the company. That's where my criticism comes from. I think that this planned Constitutional Law would not be necessary, because it will be safeguarded by this Act, which has been bloated up to two and a half times in relation to the General Constitutional Law. Therefore, this discreet silence to the thousands of released workers in the railway sector on the one hand and the generous post-chacher on the other side of the board of directors on the other. This law will also be extremely anti-minority in the personnel election. Where approximately 100 support signatures were required in the case of personnel representation elections, according to § 26 para. 8 of the new law in about 600 necessary. There is also only one vote for three different levels: for the service level, for the Regional Staff Committee and for the Central Committee. There should be a vote for each level in order to allow for a democratic choice of personality, i.e. a future-looking choice. In addition, according to § 66 para. 3 the paid training of trustees and staff representatives to their own educational institutions and those of the social partners. A further training is not paid. Those who know the practices of the ÖBB know that this means that living minority hostility in this area does not offer the trustees of smaller groups the possibility of professionally recommended continuing training because, as in the past, minorities are forbidden by the ruling socialist class to permit further training within the existing possibilities. This discrimination, which has often been discussed today, is highly dissatisfying. Despite all these negative signs, the ÖGB has been making major advertising for the "Action Fairneß" for years, after which the equal treatment of workers and employees is always promised. Major announcements are being made that are bloated in media reports, but this ÖGB considers nothing of equal treatment and leads the credibility of the "Action Fairneß" ad absurdum. [[Abg. Koppler: There is no difference between the railways!]] It would be entirely sufficient if the existing labour constitution law were also applied to post and train. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: Bravo!]] A re-introduction of the Company Constitution Act is therefore unnecessary, for it only serves to secure the estimated privileges of this honorable society. The ÖGB has passed for its own purpose. As usual, he didn't use anything for the better.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19031	The next speaker is Mr Hums. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19061	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I cannot explain to Mr Meisinger the whole time available to me. I'll try after that. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] This law is necessary because this bill for the first time makes a legal provision for the operating constitution of the railways. This legislation also implies that the staff representation will also have legal personality in accordance with these standards. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Explain this to the railways you abolished in recent years!]] As far as the Austrian Federal Railways are concerned, the right to represent staff has been regulated at a contractual level, and with this bill it is amended. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Where is the Labour Constitution Act?]] Of course, these derogations, which are caused by the other structure of the railways, could also have been introduced in the employment constitution law with derogations. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Why? Why is there a difference? To secure privileges?]] However, it is simpler and clearer to take the right to work as a basis, but to find an independent solution here and, of course, to apply the Labour Constitution Act where no special rules are required. Special arrangements are required because the railway has a different corporate structure because it has operating and service arrangements throughout the federal territory. This also requires in the area of the Austrian Federal Railways to ensure a good representation of the employees, a trinity of the staff representation. [[Abg. Meisinger: And the General Labour Constitution Act?]] This is an exception to the work constitution! Similarly, there are no differences in the terms of workers in the railway sector. There is only one single worker concept. Therefore, it is not necessary – as in labour constitution law – to separate between workers and employees. This also requires an independent system. [[Abg. Meisinger: What about the "Action Fairneß"?]] Mr Meisinger! This template is certainly very, very minority-friendly! This uniform voting papers, valid for all levels, also for the small groups, ensure that any voice in one area is actually counted for the whole area. Why is there this special scheme? – Because, particularly in the railway sector, the campaigning group – and this too is very, very crucial for minorities – must have the opportunity to do renditions beyond the substitute members, because there is very large fluctuations in the railway sector due to the extremely flexible service law standards. For in some departments, staff representatives and their substitutes are elected, but then for career or other reasons change again within the period for which they were elected. It is therefore necessary to make a special arrangement and it is adopted by the Constitutional Act. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Meisinger and Mr Gaugg.]] That the liberals in the area of the railway – I can only speak for my periods – in spite of the last personnel representation elections Use of your boss Haider has found so little appeal, because all the railways can read and therefore have been able to pursue for many years, such as the liberals – including their Obmann Haider! – have attacked the rights of the railways and have repeatedly called for drastic deterioration for railways. [[Abg. Gaugg: Under the Knute!]] That is the reason for the slight appeal, not a minority anti-regulatory! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: The railways are growing awake!]] You will not be able to discuss this even in the autumn elections! And if you suddenly want to give yourself iron-railer friendly, no one will lose you! Because you only give up because of the fact that personnel representation elections are taking place in November. But no one will forget that in all these areas, especially the liberals, the rights of the railways have always been violently attacked again and again. That's to be read! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This law is to be the basis for the personnel representation elections in November. ==References====External links== ==References== [[Abg. Gaugg: Work-terrorism à la Hums!]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to thank you now for your approval of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19246	The amendment tabled by Hums, Feurstein, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Dr. Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19267	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will take a short look, but I would like to remind you of something. It's not been a long time since we passed a postal business constitution law. In the Committee's deliberations, when this matter was under negotiation, we strongly criticised the creation of a special right of association in the field of postal services and the fact that the system approach did not take the right course to use the Labour Constitution Act and, if necessary, to enrich articles dealing with the specifics of postal services in the new distributed forms. By the way, this Post-Business Constitution Act did not come from the Federation of Mr Hums, then the Minister of Social Affairs, but from the House of the Federal Minister responsible for Transport. This was another approach, given that we understood that the uniformity of labour law regulations might have been temporarily lost sight of. Mr Hums has now explained to us why a special constitutional law is necessary for the railway. There are a few plausibilitys in this, but there is, as it were, a paraphrase, which I would like to say, shows that there has been a development in the area of railways of a worker's right which, in some way, does not conform to other workers' law, in a way that is in some way very beneficial to those concerned, because there is no distinction between workers and employees. So the standard of the railways is, as it were, in line with what we have been demanding for years, namely that there should be no distinction in this regard. However, it turns out that this is a niche. And that's why I have an unpleasant feeling. One could, of course, have incorporated what is necessary in special aspects, such as the threat of employee representation, into the Labour Constitution Act. I should like to add that I am not so sure that this will create significantly improved democratic structures. According to the three-member system, it is partly carried out in the trade union federation or in the Chambers of Commerce, where it is particularly marked: In this case, democratic structures mean that from one level to the next, with the basic elections gradually lost. – However, it would have been apparent that in the rest of the labour constitution, there are things that other workers can only dream of. And that, I believe, is the real reason why we now find a special operational constitution law for the railway. Our group will therefore not agree to this legislative proposal. However, we will use this opportunity to move ahead strongly with the harmonisation of labour constitutional rights. And I say here without losing my details: There may be some constructive surprise! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19297	The next speaker is Mr Kukacka. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19319	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This Railway Constitution Act is necessary in order to take account of the new railway structures created by the ÖBB Act and to create the necessary legal basis in the area of the organisation of the works representation. We agree with this law because it is in all essential respects in line with the proven Austrian Labour Constitution Act and there are exceptions only where this makes the specific corporate structures of the Austrian Federal Railways and Railways appear to be justified overall. It is not right for this law, as Mr Meisinger has said, to be anti-minority. [[Abg. Meisinger: Of course, it's minority-disgusting!]] It is not an anti-minority issue, Mr President. For example, because of the high number of trustees, there is also the possibility for small groups to be present in the various committees and there their position to express their views. This would not be possible in the case of much smaller structures, such as the Labour Constitution Act. That is why this exception is correct, meaningful and necessary! [[Abg. Gaugg: The candidate will be difficult!]] This also takes into account the interests of minorities. We know what we are talking about, because we are also a minority at the ÖBB! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that this law is not intended to create a prejudicial for the creation of specific business constitution laws for different companies, for example to undermine or relativize the existing labour constitution law, is already evidenced by the fact that a specific committee has been adopted by the Social Committee, which reads as follows: "The Committee assumes that these provisions are necessary due to the special structure of rail and post, but are not prejudicial to future developments in the Labour Constitution Act." Ladies and gentlemen! This makes it clear that the legislator adheres to a uniform and cross-company labour constitution legislation. And this too is necessary and meaningful! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the Austrian People's Party, which we understand as a social integration party, the commitment to employee participation is of course also in operation. This is therefore also a matter of course for the Austrian Bundesbahnen and the railways as a whole. We are committed to this employee co-determination, and we also wish to see a correspondingly strong and constructive employee co-determination on the track so that § 6 can be realized, in which it says: "This is necessary in order to achieve a balance of interests, for the benefit of workers and businesses." – That’s exactly what we’re trying to do! This is also necessary for the Austrian Federal Railways, because they are in a difficult market situation: They must implement comprehensive reforms and implement important restructuring measures. This will require constructive cooperation between workers and management. That's what we very much wish for! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I think it would be a bit overburdened if the new railway trade unionist Novak said to the Director-General that these "Napoléan trains" and he wanted him to have a "waterloo" soon, because the ÖBB had been given the "company savings" under Draxler. – I do not think this is the right style, because the new trade union fine should also take note that after the creation of the Neue Bahn AG, the times are over when the company policy was prescribed by the socialist union to the board of directors of the ÖBB. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This has led astray, and we want to prevent that for all times. Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense: Workers' representatives and management should work together to solve the problem for the future: in the interests of employees and in the interests of the Austrian Federal Railways.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19401	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19423	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is always very nice when representatives of the majority groups tell me that this law is actually only made for the minority. [[Abg. Haller: This is so "believable"!]] I'll try to explain to you that this train operating constitution law is actually an FSG operating constitution law. But you won't believe it. Mr Khol! You should really look at it closely! Because with this law, you are at risk that your ÖAAB-FCG Group will be rationalizing itself over a short or long time from the personnel representative bodies themselves. She has agreed to this law, and you have explained that again today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I'll hold on to this. We reject this not only because of the lack of provisions on minority protection – although this is a very essential point in this law that we do not agree with. In particular, it is immense that a central election committee should, by means of a single and single vote, also be dictated by the lower levels on the voting list as chosen. That's incredible – but it's so! And you have to answer that! I do not think that this is a good and reasonable arrangement! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! In view of the fact that thousands of railways are being rationalized in the next few years, it is not acceptable that you have created a staff representation structure in which, in some cases, 100 exempt railway union officials – I estimate that 95 of them are members of the FSG – can make personnel representation policy in this company. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Communist personnel representation policy!]] For 60,000 private employees in the private sector, there are 22 exempt officials! With this structure – Mr Feurstein, you can calculate it! – create functional positions on these levels for 70 to 100 freed functional positions. The fact is that Mr Hums has told us with faithful ants that this level of the staff committee, that is the intermediate level, is necessary, because it is contained in the operational structures. Mr Hums! We both know that these four staff committees, which have been set up, are lacking the appropriate contacts on the employer's side. For the Federal Railways have already been rationalized, and these were the contact points for these Staff Committees! Mr Hums! I really think it is fatal that in times like this – and we can discuss the rights of workers at different levels for a long time – we do not talk about the fact that in the area of railways you create a privilege for existing political structures within the staff representation, of which you know very well that it is only to keep all minority groups out of control. Of course, they are primarily thinking of the liberals, but in principle they are all about minority groups. This is the stated objective of this Bahn–FSG operating constitution law. And I think that's the real scandal! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] In this way, they have once again created a special constitution that goes far beyond what is set out in the postal operating constitution. The post-business constitution has been modelled in very many areas of the employment constitution. We now have different rights for the private sector, for the public service, for the post office – with completely own structures – and for the railway, and within the railway there is another breakdown with its own representative powers, for private railway companies and for the ÖBB. This is because there are also differences within the railway operating system. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this is really unthinkable! Mr Hums! Of course, you can be very sure if you take the floor here, because you know that you will get the majority for it. You can decide everything by your majority, of course, but the railway is not a good service! With this power of representation, which will secure you for the FSG, you will certainly not save the train. You save the majority of the FSG, but that's all! You may be sitting alone in the train with your staff representatives in two or three years. If that's worth so much for you, you still think a little bit about the railway staff, because this is the law!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19489	The next speaker is Mr Sigl. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19510	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This new law makes staff representation its own legal personality, which has not yet been the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] This new structure will allow the efficiency and competence of the workforce of the largest company in Austria to be maintained. New in the Railway Constitutional Act will also be that all employees – without regard to their citizenship – have the passive right to vote. From these points of view, I would like to describe this proposal as quite modern, innovative and forward-looking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also attach particular importance to the fact that this law allows the strength of the employees' representatives of the Austrian Federal Railways to continue to be used in favour of the workers. Only a close and strong representation of interests can finally enforce their concerns and objectives and face up to them as equal negotiators of corporate governance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I am also thinking in this context of the responsible participation of staff representatives with a view to their taking up more railway policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the "F"! It was the staff representative who first discussed the environmental component at the Austrian Federal Railways. And the strength of the staff representation was also used responsibly when it came to expanding the customer service at the Austrian Federal Railways. In particular, given the increased European competition, it is my concern, as a social democrat and trade unionist, to maintain and strengthen the impact of the staff representation and its organization in the interests of all railway workers and to prevent the employee from becoming a ball of business organisation considerations. [[Abg. Meisinger: Where?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to point out that, by means of the railway operating constitution, the principle of the strength and flexibility of staff representation on the ground can be maintained in the future in the interests of all railway colleagues. For all these reasons and from decades of experience in the employee representation, I can only support this proposal for a law and seek to vote in favour of it, ladies and gentlemen of the House.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19579	We have small problems with the computer, so we stop the speaking time now by hand; the time taken for the speaker's console works. The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. The clock is set to 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19605	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we follow the speeches of the Social Democratic Members, we are almost convinced that they will also be able to sell us the Constitution of the Russian Central Committee as a democratic achievement! The whole thing is going in this direction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grabner: That's what you're saying!]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: You have no idea of democracy at all!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] As you speak of democratically in this context, I would like to say to you: They sit in an XX-large coalition, but fear that this condition will soon be over. Before you are selected, therefore, pack the gap and then decide on this line. They drive by the majority – without regard to whether this is democratic or not. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's where I ask you: Have you no confidence in Austrian laws, in constitutional rights? – Mr Draxler will not tire of constantly explaining that the railway is now a private company. There is a labour constitution law highly praised by the social partners, but this is not to apply there. That's very strange! That's just too adventurous! But it's clear to me why: Mr Hums, I do not know if you have ever been to the central workshop in Linz. In fact, there are working conditions in which any private operation would be closed by the labour inspectorate within minutes. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They still believe that railway workers are an inheritance. But you'll be fooled! You're going to deceive yourself in the autumn too! Because the fear was taken part of the staff, although not yet everywhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Because when an employee meets with one of us, he says: For God's sake, only away, because when one sees that I'm talking to a non-socialist, I'm already gone. – This is your "democracy understanding". And what you want to do with the Railway Operating Constitutional Act is the most evangelization of democracy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is abuse of power, that is the establishment of a state in the state! For example, all bank employees or insurance employees could use such a thing! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your I have to ask you because you're standing here right now: Why does the ÖVP agree with such stupidities?- Oh, my God! I can only say: That's mail chess! This is the prize for the additional board director at the railway! That's it! You're caught again! Now two ÖVPlers are on the board! But the employees are you wurst! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Here is Parliament, not the Tschaner!]] And that the red staff representatives make best careers while the others are being dismantled, do not worry! Because you are a former economic party. You're just interested in who gets a leadership from the Economic Forum somewhere. That's it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Lead Lei!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP:Leilei! Lead!]] Your staff representatives, if you have any of the ÖVP at the railway, will thank you! You will thank you accordingly for agreeing to a law that includes all the rights of the exempt staff representatives, but – Oillinger has already been right – 100 exempt persons will be accommodated, and the costs will be borne by the taxpayer! There are 26 in the Staff Committee who do not have a visa, but a number of millions of schilling costs. No human knows what they do! – Stop You comply with the existing labour constitution laws, then the whole will work! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Lead!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Lead Lei!]] What you are doing is disregarding democratic structures for a professional group that is on the way to privatisation and is to free itself from the claws of a party. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: The Villacher Fasching is better!]] Mr President, we can then talk about it. I say the following to you: You will certainly regret this decision! I suggest that you do not give your consent to this proposal. But it doesn't matter anyway! The voters will rationalize you without this! And everything else doesn't matter! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You're afraid of that! Therefore, quickly provide for all you give in gratitude. What happens to the employees, however, is completely irrelevant to you! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I appeal to the conscience of the individual ÖAPBERs in your group: Talk to the staff representatives about what's going on! That is a state in the state, that is abuse of power, that is democracy. That is how this law is, and we liberals will vote against it!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19802	No further words are available. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We therefore come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 724 of the supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Hums, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades concerning Art. I § 79 para. 1 before. Since there is only one amendment to the text of the law, I shall immediately vote on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment just mentioned. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report and the amendment tabled by Hums, to Feurstein for a sign. – The act of law was adopted by a majority at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft law at third reading to give a sign on this point. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. That concludes this item on the agenda. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (611 of the Supplements): 4th Additional Agreement to the Agreement of 15 December 1989 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products and on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products. November 1967 between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation on Social Security (725 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19864	We're on the 11th. Agenda item and immediately to vote again because no speakers have been reported. There is no proposal for oral reporting. We can therefore immediately vote on the Committee's request to approve the conclusion of the Treaty in 611 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal on the approval of the Treaty in 611 of the Supplements, to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimously decided. This is also the way in which this item on the agenda is done. 12. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (700 of the Supplements): Federal Act adopting a Plant Health Act 1997 and amending the Plant Protection Act 1995 (726 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 127/A(E) by Mr Andreas Wablund Comrades on the introduction of a levy on pesticides (731 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19930	We arrive at points 12 and 13, which are negotiated under one. There is no oral report here either. On the speaker list, Mr. Ing. Reichhold at the top. He therefore has the floor. Time limit: 6 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19957	Mr President. High house! Today we deal with the adoption of a plant protection law and the revision of the plant protection law. There are many parallels to the seed law here, so I can save in detail our criticism, which we have already attached to the seed law, but not in principle, especially since there is also a very decisive passage in this law, which is present in the seed law. Federal Minister! By this law, you prohibit farmers from applying their own plantations. They also forbid the farmers to exchange their own plant products, not only the farmers but also the small gardeners and the fruit farmers. And that is, as I mean, a state that we will not take away liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have corrected this black eco-communism in the seed law at the last minute with an amendment, and I am incomprehensible why you want to maintain this ban for farmers. We Liberals will therefore submit the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Reasons: Especially in farm gardens there are still a lot of rarer flower species and varieties, whose spread would certainly be a national cultural concern, therefore I do not understand why you do not take in this pass, and at the same time appeal to you to support our request. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, you are also ignoring the concern of the 1.2 million people who want a clear label. The Federal Minister, in the Committee, as I have taken away the press, said to the Minister for Health or one of the members of the Committee, they should check the Internet if they want to know to what extent the labelling is done or not. This may be very good for a Member or a Minister, but for a farmer, I think it is better if he has time to work than to surf the Internet. [[Federal Minister Mag. Mr Molterer: You were not in committee at all, but you know what has been said!]] Federal Minister! I therefore call on you to finally end your withdrawal campaign with a view to the signatorys of popular desire! Create the prerequisite for a clear label! This will remove all the problems. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thirdly, The country interests – we have already noted this in the Seeds Act – are not sufficiently taken into account. You, when I said that at the time, Mr. Federal Minister, left your face, as you often do, and you probably thought: Again such an incompetent idea of a liberal. I am not in a bad mood, but somewhere else it fills me with inner satisfaction that at the last Federal Council meeting exactly this seed law was taken from the agenda, because there are massive protests of the countries. [[Abg. May. Stadler: These are your party friends, Minister! They've got massive protests now!]] We will therefore also apply for genetic engineering as follows: Amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. Mathias Reichhold, Anna Elisabeth Aumayr, Franz Koller, Dr. Stefan Salzl, Robert Wenitsch concerning a federal law adopting a plant protection law in 1997 and amending the Plant Protection Act 1995, Government paper 700 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report 726 of the Supplements The National Council wants to decide: The Government template referred to in the title 700 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report 726 of the Supplements shall be supplemented as follows: § 5 para. 3 means: "(3) Genetically modified plant material is clearly and unmistakably to be identified and at least to be kept separate from the other plant material." The previous paragraph (3) is replaced by the following: (4). Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20089	The two requests that the speaker has just reported are properly filed and are under negotiation. Mr Schwarzenberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20114	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This federal law, which introduces a plant protection law in 1997 and amends the plant protection law in 1995, primarily regulates the conditions for the placing on the market of fruit, ornamental plants and vegetable plants, i.e. not seed, not vegetable seed. This is already regulated in the Seeds Act. The placing on the market does not concern the need or the use of itself, as you, Mr Reichhold, call for in an amendment. "Marketing" means the provision or storage, the exhibition or the offer for the sale of plant material, but it does not concern its own scope. This law also does not apply to the export of plant material to third countries. It regulates, as it were, only the area within the EU internal market. The EU harmonisation of plant goods transport is aimed at reducing trade barriers in all Member States and at ensuring the supply of healthy and high-quality plant products. This Plant Goods Act has now also implemented all EU legislative adjustments in the agricultural sector. With this decision-making, we have now implemented the EU Directive in all these agricultural areas. The previous federal law on the movement of fruit plant material from 1958 has never been implemented, so that no control organisation has yet been established. The rules governing the planting of ornamental plants and vegetables are almost equivalent to the regulation of plant material in fruit species. For this reason, of course, it was useful for the European Union to bring it into a single law and to implement it through a common law. It should be assumed that a total of about 2 200 establishments are affected by this law. The amendment to the 1995 phytosanitary law allows for the creation of a similar derogation under this Regulation, as is already the case in the case of forestry products. The second legislative matter, or the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the introduction of a levy on pesticides, was unanimously rejected by the Committee on Agriculture, because, with the ÖPUL, a very Austrian programme for environmentally sound agriculture, we are pursuing the system that, in order to prevent distortions of competition, we are granting a premium to farmers who voluntarily abandon the application of pesticides and plant protection products or water-soluble fertilisers for five years. Nearly 180 000 Austrian farmers participate in this programme. We're European champions. For just over 2% of the agricultural land in the 15 states of the European Union, we receive from Brussels about 30 percent of the resources available for environmental protection in agriculture. The sensitivity and willingness of the Austrian farmers to produce environmentally-friendly is already evident here. In conclusion, however, I would like to say with all clarity: In the longer term, consumers will decide in what way and in what form agricultural production will take place in Austria, because, of course, a corresponding price has to be achieved on the market. If we are currently facing the situation in Salzburg that organic farmers supply 50 million litres of milk, but can only be sold 25 million litres, these farmers will be released from organic production in the longer term, because they have higher costs, for example for the purchase of organic cereals, which is twice as expensive as normal feed. Other essential provisions must also be complied with. The checks, which are complete and take place several times in the year, must be financed by farmers in their own control association itself. However, if they do not achieve higher prices, farmers will be returning to traditional agriculture. [[Abg. I don't think so!]] Therefore, the call to consumers: If they want organic food production to continue to increase in agriculture, they must also be ready to be too long in the supermarket or in the food shops afterwards. All in all, we are glad that we have now completed these legal adjustments. We will therefore be happy to give this federal law the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20165	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20186	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We too believe from the Liberal Forum that, in the end, it must be a decision of consumers, which kind of farming is being carried out in Austria, but that this decision may fall, it is essential that all those involved in the production chain and also in the consumer chain ultimately know what they are using. Therefore, it should be very clear in this law that genetically modified plant material is also marked as such. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This guarantee is given on organic farming! That's being strictly controlled!]] Wait a minute! It cannot be said that those who already have difficulties in the existing system still have the burden to carry out the markings, but, if so, all should declare what is contained in the products, so that the decision can be made very clearly and clearly and that area that is unclear – what is in it, what is not in it – is kept as small as possible. All this isn't done. In this respect, the amendment tabled by Mr Reichhold must be supplemented, because § 5 currently contains four paragraphs with the marking. If you insert one, the fourth must become the fifth. This has been forgotten in your request. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The third becomes the fourth!]] The third becomes the fourth, and the fourth must become the fifth. But that has not been said. Otherwise the fourth falls away or we have two fourths. However, this is only a small thing that does not make the request in itself, Mr Böhacker, which is quite right. [[Abg. Böhacker: Barmüller, 4a goes too!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: It's hard with the lawyers!]] I say again: That's the right way. If you still want to make it completely correct in business order, this suggestion takes up if not, let it stay. However, I am particularly concerned, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Schwarzenberger's assessment, which says that this law is useful, can be called into question, because the placing on the market of fruit varieties has not been regulated in Austria since yesterday, but since 1958. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But never performed!]] Yeah, that's the problem. In 1974 the law was also amended and still never implemented. Now, if we are going to pass laws that are not implemented here, then there is actually no need for regulation. That is why we should consider this, especially since there are female Members in your party who say that we must become lord of the flood of law, we must stop it. I believe that it is essential to ask whether this is a sensible legal matter. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: It is about implementing the EU Directive!]] I already know that, by joining the European Union, there are rules that make it necessary to adopt the law. All right, this has to be done as a result of the accession to the European Union. We have no question that this is necessary. But why we don't think this kind of regulation makes sense, I can tell you on § 3 para. 2 and § 10 para. 3 because there are very wide-ranging regulatory powers for the Federal Minister. In fact, it is only said: He can implement the directives and what is there – no longer is the law about them; there is no deeper concreteisation – by the adoption of regulations. And that's where I tell you: It's too far from me! It cannot be said that, on a proposal from the Commission in the Council of Ministers, directives will be drawn up at European level by the relevant Federal Ministers, then they will come to Austria and continue the implementation of these directives by means of a regulation, and Parliament is in fact eliminated throughout the process. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not the view of the Liberals as to how this should be implemented in Austria. We want Parliament to be involved in this process. That is one of the key reasons why we will reject this concrete formulation of the implementation of the directives that have been addressed. The second point I would like to mention is that, if it is already the case that at European level, as we see it in the area of Rasterfändung and Lauschanfrage, the Austrian ministers w.o. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That means: It is not only the existing regulations that have been set out that are too largely in implementation, but also what could happen to us in the future that will in no way affect Parliament in any way through this legal basis. And that's something we don't want! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The second item on the agenda, which is being debated here under one, concerns Mr Wabl's request to introduce a levy on pesticides, which, as you have said, has been unanimously rejected in the Committee, which I am actually surprised about, because the request itself is not only in accordance with the rules of the National Environmental Plan, as already stated in its implementation, but also in accordance with the rules of the National Environmental Plan. And the National Environmental Plan, Mr Deputies, has been announced here in this House by the government as what the directive for the legislation of this coalition is supposed to be. If the National Environmental Plan is the directive of your legislation and there is also a clear indication that such measures are to be taken, then, Mr Schwarzenberger, such requests as have been made by Mr Wabl should not be rejected. In addition, we believe that it is not enough to raise only such a levy, but that the revenue that would be achieved by this levy should at least be offset in exchange for the additional wage costs. That's what we think is the right way. It is therefore incomprehensible that you have not adopted this motion for a resolution and are not prepared to present a draft legislation for a pesticides tax. We therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in both cases we cannot give our consent to the procedure proposed by you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20298	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20319	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In view of the hour ahead, I will speak to you only a few words on this government proposal and on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. In principle, I note that my group will agree to this request and to this report and hence to the presentation. However, I also hope, as in the Committee, that we will succeed in the future in the discussions of the Subcommittee, in the Committee on Health, and in the special committee on the treatment of genetic engineering in these areas, to clarify the issue of liability and thus to clarify the safety issue for users and consumers and, accordingly, to bind in with this House in a legislative framework. Mr Reichhold! On your statement, only two remarks. First: Listening still does not mean that the truth has also been heard. Secondly, Being there would have been better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20355	Mr Koller has now come to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20376	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The new Plant Goods Act regulates the registration of fruit, vegetable and ornamental plant varieties as well as the recognition of plant material. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But go! You don't need to tell us that!]] The placing on the market of plant material of fruit varieties is currently regulated by the Federal Law of October 1958, but this law has never been implemented. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is another story!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation tasks of the Plant Goods Act are, first, the approval of the suppliers and laboratories, second, the verification of approved suppliers and laboratories, thirdly, the verification of plant material, fourthly the recognition of plant material and fifthly the collection of fees. About 2 200 farms are affected, but only about 400 farms are subject to all the provisions of this Federal Act. It is a law on and on itself necessary to put fruit and vegetable farmers and hobby gardeners in the hands of impeccable plant material. This law has great legal similarity to the seed law. It therefore also has the same shortcomings. First: Bureaucracy and administrative burden at the expense of plantists who will continue to waste more than 5 million schilling annually. Secondly, The labelling of genetically modified material is not given again. Minister! It's a statement if you're talking about a list of varieties similar to the seed law, and the farmers and gardeners should call them on the Internet. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Presidential Conference published a new brochure in May 1997. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Excellent!]] And what do you read in it? – It is a question of representing interests to respond to the consumer's wish for non-genotechnic products in the form that non-genotechnic production is made possible on the basis of private economic agreement. The President's Conference therefore calls for strict labelling of genetically modified organisms and products. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here! Ah, look here!]] Dear Lords of the ÖVP! Mr Schwarzenberger! Mr Schwarzböck! Here and today you would have the opportunity to decide on this label. And what are you doing? – They lead the farmers and consumers around the nose! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I ask you to: Voices To the request made by my colleague, Mr Reichhold, on the labelling of genetic changes in plantations! Jump over your shadows, act in favor of the farmers, and put off your double-beddedness! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20466	No further words are available. That concludes this debate. We shall come to the vote. I ask you to take the seats. It will be voted separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 700 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Reichhold and comrades submitted an additional and amending proposal. I shall first vote on the supplementary proposal and on the part of the law concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Deputies Ing. As just mentioned, Reichhold and Comrades have submitted an additional request which, in Article I, introduces a new paragraph. 3 of § 5. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have tabled this supplementary proposal. Reichhold agree to a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Ing. Reichhold and comrades have also tabled an amendment to Article I(3). 2 refers. I would like to ask those Members of the House who want to vote in favour of this. – This is also the minority. The application is rejected. We therefore vote on Article I, Section 3, paragraph 3. 2 as amended by the Government template. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give him their approval to give a sign. . I note that the decision-making has taken place by a majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall come to the third reading. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their third-reading approval to the draft law for a sign of approval. . I note that the draft law has been adopted by the majority at third reading. It is appropriate to vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report in 731 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of this Committee report to give an appropriate sign. – This is decided by a majority. That is what we have done with this item on the agenda. 14. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (321 of the Supplements): Water law law law Novelle 1996 – WRG-Nov. 1996 (727 of the supplements) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the report of the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry (III-72 of the Supplements) on the 1996 Water Protection Report (728 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 334/A by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrund Comrades on a Federal Law amending the Law on Water Law 1959 (729 of the Supplements) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 335/A by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrund Comrades on a Federal Law amending the Law on Water Law 1959 (730 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20610	We are now negotiating points 14 to 17. Reporting is not required. That is why we are going into the debate at once. Mrs Aumayr has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20640	Mr President. Minister! I will start with the positive change in this law on water law. These are for us farmers in particular the § 33f Abs. 6. The liberals have been storming against these paragraphs for years, have made countless applications to this section, and... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Friend.]] My God, my colleague friend, at how many meetings have you been at, and what has happened to the farmers? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, exactly 14 days ago, you have rejected this amendment, and now you decide it, but only half, once again only half. Although the 20 per cent self-retaining for the farmers is absent, the Cann-Determining remains. That is, the Federation and the countries can pay compensation, but they do not have to. This is exactly the focus of this matter, because the budgetary situation of this Federal Government is well known. If, according to the funds, compensation payments are possible, it is about possible to imagine that the funds will probably not be available again. Federal Minister! I have serious concerns, because you are sluggish in several directions. They have not yet adopted a regulation on compensation directives. There are already federal states in which water restoration areas have been designated under the applicable Water Law Act, but the competent... [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Measures! What measures do you propose?]] Of course, but the compensation directives are still missing. It is high time, Minister of State, that you took action in this direction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: propose measures!]] The fact that my doubts about the loss of income are justified, Mr Federal Minister, proves to me your course of action at the ÖPUL reduction for this year. More than 1 billion schillings have been shortened to farmers in the environmental programme. This reduction of 1 billion schilling was not forced by the EU, but this reduction has only to answer you. They have not paid out funds which are contractually granted to farmers, for which they have provided services, but have given these billions to the Minister of Finance without fighting. Federal Minister! In addition, § 32a Abs. 6 of the Water Law Act tailored for the OMV. The "Salzburger Nachrichten" in this context write of a "custom-made section for swallowing probes of the OMV in the new Water Law Act". If it is now permitted to channel prohibited substances into groundwater if water conditions permit it or it is necessary for mining reasons, then this is extremely worrying. You may request a water-law permit afterwards, but you know very well that you will cover the OMV with advice. That means: On the longer branch is clearly the OMV, so this is a Lex OMV. Federal Minister! In addition, this is not only a Lex OMV, because the gravel barons have also been used massively. In § 31a para. 6 is clearly a concession to the gravel barons. I admit that it is a good change in this law that there has been massive procedural simplification, no question at all: This is to be seen as absolutely positive. However, the simplification of this procedure goes so far that, for example, according to § 114 para. 3 if the authority does not notify in writing within three months of receipt of the notification that an authorisation procedure is necessary. Because under these circumstances it can happen – and that is not so rare in Austria! . that during this period, competent officials are either in sickness, on vacation or on health care and, for whatever reason, cannot comply with the deadline. Or you will, of course... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Mr President, I should like to thank In addition, you open the door and gate with this section of the friendly economy and, of course, bribery attempts! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the ÖVP: What do you think you are?]] What is that supposed to mean? As a learned Austrian, I know that such a thing is to be treated with caution. For if the authorisation is made automatically, only because the competent official, for whatever reason, does not act within three months, please each facility is approved. On this point, deregulation is clearly too far, and that is why we will reject this point.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20750	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] This – and only this! – has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20789	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I have not been surprised that Mr Aumayr has been relatively brief in her speech on water law and that the comments have been rather poor. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I understand that too! Especially at that time when you have reasons not to be here, the coalition agrees on a modern water law with procedural simplification, with advantages for agriculture, for farms, for local authorities and so on. You just caught a bad time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] This week of Abstinence has already begun badly for the FPÖ: The Haider got the air out of the marathon, while the Bartenstein ran, and then you weren't there at work. – But this is your problem, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] I note positively that Mrs Aumayr, at least with recognition, has observed that it is with regard to § 33 para. 6 in the sense of what was often demanded of you indisputably came to an order. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is also undisputed that in the requests of the liberals concerning § 33 para. 6 was always spoken of by a cannibal determination. It's always said: "The Federal Minister will then, if the respective federal state.." Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, then, and only then! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But be it as it may be. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Now you've overdoed yourself!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] I understand: It hurts a bit when the coalition adopts a modern law on water law! I would like to say that: Austria has a huge, priceless treasure. Some even think it's the "gold" of the future: To have sufficient water to have high quality means to have the most precious food to a sufficient extent. Austria consumes 3 percent of its total water resources as drinking water. 80 countries in this world, on the other hand, suffer from water shortages! In comparison to our circumstances, I would like to say that water from the Rhine is being prepared in the Netherlands, for example, and this has already seen the kidneys seven times before the human enjoyment. In view of this, one can only say: You happy Austria! My Ladies and gentlemen! Clean lakes and rivers, intact groundwater and a high-quality drinking water supply are goals for which we all have to stand! I'll invite you to that. Ladies and gentlemen! It is only a shame that the knowledge of the need for water protection will not come to mind until the algae plague is large on the Adriatic Sea, when oil tankers are leaking on the high seas or when a bathing lake has to be blocked. Then the pleasure of leisure is reduced, and then one becomes more punctual in this regard! In addition, no one wants to give up on progress. Aviation movements are increasing, traffic is increasing dramatically, oil heating – this is seen in the construction negotiations – is the modern heating form. This also has a significant impact on the forest, which I add, because this week is the "week of the forest". Ladies and gentlemen! We should pay more attention to the soil and to the forest, especially with regard to increased water protection. The forest has the largest storage capacity, the forest floor looks like a sponge. Rain and melting water are held back, and therefore a healthy forest also contributes to water protection. Whoever wanted to write a book about the water would have to write a book about life. For where there is no water, there is no life, no human life, no vegetation, no plants and no animals. We must therefore also strengthen public discussion and awareness of the importance of water in addition to the proposal for legislative standardisation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Done! He says that like a kindergarten ante!]] Water pollution and waste would be the beginning of the end. In this context, I would like to say: It is unfair to constantly describe agriculture as the sole contaminants of water. Thousands of abandoned landfills, unsealed canals, and mustard pits speak a clear language. Agriculture, on the other hand, should, at the expense of the private and municipal waste disposalers, free of charge, at the expense of the sewage sludge, at least cheaply applied to their fields and soils. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll hold on to this. The Novelle Law on Water Law 1990 was a major theoretical novel, but today it is crucial to implement it in practice. A comprehensive deregulation is foreseen, in which zig thousands of minor and microprocedures are no longer necessary – this has even been stated by colleague Aumayr. This law provides communities with real-life opportunities and simplifications in the field of wastewater disposal, the expansion of sewerage and drinking water supply facilities. For agriculture, the loss of 20 per cent of self-retaining in rehabilitation areas, the necessary adjustment at farm gas stations and, in most cases, in irrigation plants, the disappearance of the expensive authorizations, and for private, the disappearance of the incomprehensible need of authorisation in heating or storage facilities. For the economy, important deregulation steps are also planned, such as the introduction of a simplified authorisation procedure in many areas with the best possible respect for the public interests and rights of third parties, as well as the transfer of procedures from the upper to the district authorities, in order to enable more citizens to act. Ladies and gentlemen! More closeness to citizens and a coordinated approach, such as coordination with commercial law, are positive changes without changing the primary objective of water protection. I would like to express my express thanks to Mr Molterer, to the responsible officials and also to the club staff of SPÖ and ÖVP, who have worked and supported us in an excellent way. I should also like to thank my colleagues, Mr Doppelmüller and Mr Gradwelt, who have cooperated with the SPÖ in the lead and, of course, my colleague's head. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The preparation of this novel was a very constructive, positive and coordinated work. Three steps have been taken: In December 1996 it was about small-scale clarifying plants, first of all about landfill adjustment this spring and now about this big novel. In a fourth step, a change was promised by the Federal Minister on the basis of a resolution on the cooperative water sector, which we decide today. This is a major reform. We have assumed the responsibility of the government parties to protect the food water, and therefore the ÖVP is happy to give its approval to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20895	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20917	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer, I would like to say to you: Anyone who runs a marathon delivers a special sporty performance. I say this in particular on the defence of those who have walked slower than Mr Bartenstein and Mr Haider, because those who have come to the finish after four hours have also done a great deal of sport. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Böhacker.]] You should not make fun of those and say: They've walked so slowly anyway! Mr Auer! If you then discover that you are now adopting a very modern law on water law, which you like to give your consent, then you should not at the beginning of a speech § 33 para. 6 which you quote in the new issue of the Law on Water Law of 1 January. In fact, it is not possible to find April 1997. Check it out! You just forgot! You were in the committee, but apparently you had some advice, which is not known to you at all. Let us take a look at the extent of the amendment tabled by your colleagues. Moreover, contrary to what Mr Khol is always asking for here in the House, there is no cost assessment. And if not even an estimate of the cost of the government proposal concerning the Water Law Act 1996 was included, I ask: How seriously do you take it from the constructive committee negotiations with your own requirements? – You don’t take this seriously at all! Rather, let the ministry give you something that you do not seem to look at yourself in the scope! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr Barmüller! How much have you had to do with it in practice?]] Mrs Tichy-Schreder! I have at least as much to do with this in connection with the law-making and decision-making as you do, because we are both very intensive in dealing with matter. Second point: There were problems in concrete implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not remember that the government template, which was introduced long before the end of 1996, could not be implemented because it was not possible to agree between the coalition partners, your two government parties and the countries. That is why, as you know, changes were preferable by the end of 1996, mainly on time. That is why I am surprised that you are changing the same provisions you changed in 1996 with this amendment. Apparently it is not an agreed, well thought-out, well thought-out, practice based on a modern water law law, but you do not know for yourself how to deal with the problems and how to finance them. In reality, this is a debacle of this policy that operates the great coalition. [[Abg. Head: You don't even believe that!]] Member's head! You know that! Look I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. On the other hand, in a letter from 1996 there were objections from Mr Bartenstein's Federal Minister, but you did not take it into account today! They do nothing but extend deadlines, they take maximum account of what is technically feasible in preventing dangerous substances that are being introduced and are oriented to the water economic conditions, which, of course, means an extension of time. But it will not, as you yourself have done in the National Environmental Plan, think whether other production processes would be a more sensible way than to constantly postpone the implementation rules! Take, for example, § 33b Abs. 2 before: As regards dangerous introductions, it has so far been said: "The introduction of hazardous waste water content may only be authorised as far and as long as...". The "and so long" now delete in this novel. Is that really progressive? – I think you are really capitulating, but you cannot say that here! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: You must read on and not just quote half sentences!]] Mr Doppelmüller! You can be glad that we did not speak in committee, because otherwise you would have had to reject our proposals again. But now you have to make it clear to the public that, even if you are alone in the committees, you have to act with very extensive amendments, because you are actually not in agreement with yourself. – This is a problem you have in this whole discussion! Mr Khol said: We always have very constructive committee meetings! . We have been able to prove to you, with a list of all our amendments which have made the opposition comprehensive, that you are, in fact, confusing the principle of majority rule in the committees. That's the way you're doing it. And it was a useful effect of this boycott that was once made aware of it. On top of that you can also find in the book of Hans Kelsen "From the essence and value of democracy", page 62 and read the following. It says that such measures are allowed if a majority leaves no other opportunity to draw attention to certain facts. We have made use of this means – well-informed – and that has, as you yourself know, taken you to the market. The Committee on Social Affairs and Employment has, for example, started the Committee meeting and the Members have held a smoking session there, while the Minister of Labour and the Member of Parliament have quietly withdrawn from a corner with the relevant advisers and continued the deliberations. Then you decided what those guys made up. – These are the "constructive" committee negotiations of this great coalition! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not want to hide the fact that we were very pleased about a report to be discussed here: The 1996 Water Protection Report, contrary to the use of this coalition, is actually up-to-date and is currently being discussed here in the House. We were very pleased that this is a very pleasing report with color pictures and, I would like to say, still life, which is also about dredging lakes and the like. This proves that much is obviously being done in this area. There are even still lives with house wells, and those Members who have little relation to reality can look at a fountain in this report. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: I have two real wells, no fountains!]] We will vote in favour of this report because it is up-to-date because it is very comprehensive and offers a clear picture of what is happening in Austria. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! The two other items on the agenda, which relate to the motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Aumayr, will only partially be approved by us, because, on the basis of these reports, we see that what is required of the opposition in motions for resolutions is left in the committee until it is no longer up-to-date. Then one rejects it, although one makes changes in the specific novel in the same direction. You would have had to negotiate the second motion for a resolution by the end of 1996 if there were to be a constructive committee consultation. As with many other applications, you have refused to do so. I would like to express once again our protest against this type of majority rule: We have a parliamentarianism with a majority principle, and you have increasingly refused the necessary constructive negotiations in the committees since you once again have the two-thirds majority. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21014	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21036	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to turn to the 1996 Water Protection Report. Allow me to interrupt for a few minutes the very intense discussion about the law on water law novelle. In essence, this report is linked to the previous surveys. The current version is definitely an excellent documentation and a hand-resistant analysis of the state of the situation. All the ladies and gentlemen who have contributed to the fact that this work is in front of us today are grateful from this point of view. Ladies and gentlemen! The quality of wastewater disposal in Austria is at a high level. Currently, more than 75 percent of the population are connected to public wastewater treatment plants. This percentage will increase significantly over the next ten to 15 years. I believe that this is an ecological achievement, especially if one considers the topographic situation of Austria and if one knows that a proper financial effort is involved so that those measures can be implemented. The water quality of Austrian waters is described as very satisfactory in this report. This is, in principle, a gratifying fact, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, because it turns out that the various legal measures introduced or implemented in recent years have actually taken effect. I am thinking, above all, of the last revision of the Water Law Act, of the Water Construction Fund Act. I would like to say that we do not need to hide comparisons at international level. The Austrian emission collection of groundwater and liquid waters is fully expanded. There are about 2 500 measuring points in this system. That's the best international standard. Austria thus has the best studied waters in Europe, and that is a high ecological standard. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this analysis must not hide over problems, because there are problems, and we know that too. In some areas, groundwater levels, especially in nitrates and atrazine, will be greatly exceeded. These problems occur especially in the well-known agricultural regions in the southeast and northeast of Austria. The report also mentions areas in need of rehabilitation. The only question is whether we can solve these problems with the existing steering measures, such as the ÖPUL environmental programme, or whether other measures will become necessary in the longer term due to this acute situation. I would like to say – and I am in favour of this – that this environmental programme makes a significant contribution to correcting this problem. The only question is whether this is enough. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I know, of course, that this funding programme is not directly geared to water protection and is aimed at water protection. However, any measure which is taken away from intensive management has a positive impact on the protection of waters, and in the end it is precisely that. Ladies and gentlemen! Water protection is becoming an increasingly international issue, and that is a good thing. As a good example of international cooperation, I would like to mention the Danube Protection Convention, with the help of which it has really succeeded in ensuring the quality of groundwater and surface waters internationally through coordinated programmes. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This report shows that good and effective instruments are being used to address this problem. Water protection – this is what I am taking away from this report – is taken seriously in Austria. This is a good way to continue. We shall therefore give our approval to this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21093	Next speaker is Mrs Ing. Monika Langthaler. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21126	Are you tired, Mr. Hazelsteiner? Should I wake you up a little bit? [[Abg. May. Peter: We don't want to listen to you!]] Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the European Parliament Auer meant that this was a modern novel. – If one assumes that today everything that has to do with deregulation is modern, then he is right. This amendment, which the government parties want to decide today, is primarily a draft deregulation, a withdrawal of good provisions which entered into force in the Novelle Law on Water Law in 1990. The fact that some areas have remained dead is probably the responsibility of the Federal Ministers, since regulations that would have been necessary were simply not adopted for six years. Very briefly on the Water Protection Report: I don't quite understand the euphoria of my predecessor. We will not vote in favour of the Water Protection Report. I see that the officials responsible for this task have done a proper job. This is actually the case with all the various reports. However, you can also recognise in the Water Protection Report that the necessary regulations that we adopted at the Novel 1990 were simply not adopted. Until completion of the report, no regulation on the protection of groundwater against contamination by agricultural and industrial plants with chemicals was adopted. In concrete terms, no regulation concerning a groundwater rehabilitation area has been adopted in accordance with § 33f of the Law on Water Law! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That no regulations have been adopted by the Federal Minister responsible for water protection must be read in the Water Protection Report. In this respect, the report is a good documentation of the failure of your policy in this area. So you can't put up a hat right now and say: This is the success of our great policy! They are very lucky with the geographical and geological situation of this country, as there are indeed large water resources in Austria. However, they have discussed all the problems described in the Water Protection Report, but also in the Fourth Environmental Control Report, that there is no decrease in groundwater pollution in Austria, that there are still major barriers to the flow of water, and that there is indeed a lack of water in the East, in the course of the negotiations on this novelties you want to decide today, let alone. Deregulation measures are to be adopted today. Deregulate concretely in eight points They're in wide areas. I would like to add this briefly: mere obligation to display systems according to the state of the art according to § 12a Abs. 4, freedom of authorisation for projects of less water economic importance according to § 12b, freedom of authorisation for installations for the management and storage of water-hazardous substances according to § 31a, "Authorisation fiction" for installations declared subject to approval with the novelle 1990 according to § 31d, relativisation of the authorisation obligations according to § 32a, obligation for indirect inductors according to § 32a, withdrawal of dynamic adaptation for hazardous waste water content according to § 33b Abs. 2 and mere display procedure according to § 114 para. 2. In some areas I can actually remember the discussion in the context of the Novelle Water Law Act 1990, which you have tried to sell here as a "great success". Now, under the pressure of various economic interests, deregulation measures are decided to convey the fiction that if you deregulate, plants could be approved more quickly. That's a fiction! We will discuss this again tomorrow in commercial law. I can quote a large number of reports, especially from the People's Procuratorate, but also from the various environmental prosecutors, in which it has already been found that all the deregulation measures you have put into environmental law for two years have not led to an acceleration of the authorisation procedures. – They have led to problems, and They will break into problems for the future. They leave a principle which we have enshrined in environmental law a few years ago, namely the principle of precautionary measures, the principle of prevention, which was, in itself, a principle of environmental legislation not only in Austria, but also within the European Union. They break through this principle permanently; even here today in the water law, especially at the novelle of § 31a, in which it concerns plants for the storage and conduction of water-hazardous substances. This is specifically about such plants as the production of iron tubes, which use perchloroethylene to defatte the manufactured pipes. We had such a problem in Austria. This was the Schoeller-Bleckmann plant in Ternitz, which was precisely about such contaminations and in which exactly this provision had to be applied, because preventive measures must be taken precisely where large-scale groundwater pollution is to be prevented. Such previous provisions, which were in principle subject to authorisation and to be assessed to a full extent, turn around. These are now only more exceptional to report, and even if there is a regulation of the head of state in which he describes the particular potential for danger accordingly. This is a abandonment of a basic consensus, which has just been reached in the water law area, namely the principle of prevention, the protection of groundwater and the protection of which you simply give up for deregulation, whose scope you cannot yet estimate. In fact, you do not seem to understand the scope of what you will decide today and tomorrow in the trade order. It is also clear from these eight deregulation rules, which are listed by me, that you do not yet recognise their vagueness and boundlessness, which you will ultimately participate in today. For I cannot imagine that the environmental spokespersons of the two coalition parties, Members of the European Parliament and Members of Parliament, quoted here as the main negotiators, do not see that they are leaving a fundamental principle of groundwater protection, namely the principle of prevention and prevention, and that today, for plants with water-hazardous substances, they ultimately decide on a really more than bad test. The amendment you tabled to the Committee at the last minute – Mr Barmüller, of course, is perfectly right that you would have given us the amendment, we would have been sitting in committee, not even before, and that we could have done just as little; They brought it in shortly before; this concerns § 32a; Mr Aumayr mentioned it briefly – of course, is a Lex OMV; a Lex Aderklaa, because this allows the Federal Minister to mention in a regulation those substances which may not, at least under certain conditions, be introduced into the groundwater. New to your amendment is the fact that certain industries, in particular mining, are subject to certain special provisions. For if, in the context of geothermal processes or of mines and quarries due to economic conditions or for mining reasons, it is necessary to work with the relevant substances that are dangerous to groundwater; then this is possible. This means nothing but a legalisation of the deep-pressure of special waste by the ÖMV and is a follow-up to a previously unsustainable state. This is, of course, unacceptable from an ecological point of view. Summary: This law on water law novelle undoubtedly moves exclusively on the deregulation rail. They thus open a door to changes, whose effects you can't actually capture. [[Abg. Auer: There you will have less to prevent in the future!]] Once again, you have not managed to finally regulate the plant-specific area in a uniform, comprehensive plant law, because today you will again decide on provisions which are, in part, completely different from the procedural regime in commercial law. There will be no procedural simplification. You will therefore, if you are obviously giving in to economic pressure, hardly achieve an acceleration and efficiency improvement of the procedures, and the businesses will not save themselves any cost. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying: There are also positive provisions, and I do not want to hide them. We shall also vote in a separate vote. We have tried very hard to achieve approval simplifications in the field of decentralized wastewater disposal. This is what the novelle does in some areas. It is not true that we are generally opposed to simplifying procedures where they are logical and good. There are positive provisions for decentralized wastewater disposal. The extension of the responsibilities of the regional teams is also very positive. It is right that the procedures and also certain competences should be brought closer to the citizens in the course of administration. That is why this extension, which is provided for in § 99, is absolutely welcome. It is also appropriate to welcome the standardisation of approval decisions and applications for approval by a regulation which you hope will soon be adopted, Minister of State. We shall vote separately. But the overall work of art, which you will decide here today and which is a big step towards deregulation, we will certainly reject. [[Abg. Auer: We'll hurt that!]] We will certainly be able to read in the new water protection reports in a few years that your current novices have done more than bad service to groundwater protection in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21211	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21232	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already happened today that politics is very strong and priority in times like this, and it has also been welcomed – I believe, also by an opposition speaker – that this is necessarily the case. I think we can rightly call on Austria to have very attractive framework conditions in some areas that affect the economy. If, for example, I think of our tax law, we have a very attractive tax situation for companies, we have a good level of training of our employees. On the other hand, little support for successful economic development is legal provisions, overregulations in the procedural field, for example in the field of plant rights, which we made years ago and which are now being used to do so, Mrs Langthaler, especially by environmental activists, in order to achieve things that cannot be prevented by material law, then through the removal of procedures, through partly unjustified opposition. We all know these notary activists who are trying to achieve what they cannot achieve in a material way through procedural provisions that have not been made to do so. With this novelle, we want to go back to a reasonable level without substantially and materially reducing any protection provisions, without having meant substantial rights of the public hand or the precautionary principle quoted by you. You probably want to apply the principle of prevention. You have already mentioned the points on which it is primarily in the water law law Novelle. You have rightly said that we are still talking about the trade regulations tomorrow. In contrast to you, I really see two days of joy – and that is what I am saying as an environmental politician – for us, for the Austrian economy on the one hand, for the Austrian administration on the other, and also for the population who also have to deal with these long procedures. But I do not see any problems for environmentalists at all because, as I have said, we have not affected the standards in any way. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: The People's Procuratorate is different! Are they all wrong?]] But what we do succeed is deregulation and debureaucratisation. You have already mentioned the areas. What does this lead to? It leads to cost savings for the public sector, especially for those countries which are very affected. We are talking about 10,000 laundries, 10,000 photo laboratories and 100,000 small municipal managers, another 10,000 in the field of field irrigation, for which simplified procedures can now be handled, where there was a complicated procedure before. It is also about 5,000 bakeries, 10,000 innkeepers, 3,000 butchers who can now be free of authorisation, as has been said, without endangering this precautionary principle. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: These are all cost savings! Mr Barmüller is not interested in this!]] These are extensions, changes in the channel area, in the tap water sector, which will be able to proceed with 10 000 display procedures instead of the entire full procedure. This means 150 million Schilling administrative costs per year, as said primarily for the federal states. I don't think that's negligible. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The barmüller never got that!]] If I can still see that the economy will save about 1 billion schillings a year, and if I also think about the investment impulse that will be associated with it - I am firmly convinced - then I can only say that there are a lot of winners in this new law: the population, the administration, the economy, agriculture, but above all a Minister of Agriculture and a Parliament who trusts, provisions that were created years ago and which show that some are abused and others are not capable of taking back to a reasonable degree. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The mayor!]] As losers of these novels, only pessimists and notary nörglers, who on the one hand, are constantly sorry for high costs in public administration, can demand procedural reliefs and cost savings, but then, if anything really happens, try to do anything with phrases without content and without real arguments and probably jealous, because they did not think it possible to make such a big throw possible. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Utopists!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a hard judgment you make about the barmüller!]] I'm sorry! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: A truth!]] I have to say it like I appreciate it. There is today a law on water law, novelle, on the decision-making process, which our group and the Socialist Group will be happy to adopt. I would also like to thank the Federal Minister, his officials, our staff in the two clubs, with my co-negotiator Jakob Auer, for my negotiating partners, Doppelmüller and Gradwelt. I think we really did a big throw. We can therefore agree with this law with good conscience. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (showing a servant of the house) You must thank him too! He deserved it too!]] 23. 23
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21372	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reichhold. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21393	High house! Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Whether it will be a day of joy for the water will ultimately show the practice of execution. We have registered our concerns in some points, but I admit that there are some improvements included. I would like to expressly like about §12 para. Cite 2 and 3. This is something that I have repeatedly demanded that we do not make very rigid regulations on state-of-the-art technology, because I think it is useless to make high investments whose costs do not benefit from any relation. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Then you can agree!]] We will also make it clear in a separate vote which areas of this water law law we expressly support. But what I would like to excite in today's debate – in two or three minutes we can't really deal with it – is that statement, which is also a member of the European Parliament. It has been said here today that some of the Member States of the European Union are already forced to prepare their wastes so that they can cover their water needs at all. For me, therefore, it is understandable that the EU is in the spirit of creating the legal conditions for it not only to have a qualitative influence on the water management of the Member States in the future, but also, of course, to seek to have a quantitative access to the water resources of each Member State. I am speaking here of the EU Water Directive, which is obviously being discussed by the Council and which clearly and clearly shows that, above all, the use of the water volumes of a Member State will have a huge effect on the EU in the future. I had this proposal put forward. In fact, very strict rules on this use are laid down. In particular, the required analyses, which follow the proposal until 31. It is necessary to be delivered by the Member States on December 2001, some of which are to be expected. The purpose is to analyse the collection and distribution of fresh water, the collection and disposal of waste water, the scope, prices and costs, the breakdown into the individual sectors of the economy, long-term forecasts of supply and demand, the identification of infrastructure investment, trends in the past and seasonal fluctuations. In one word: It is very precise information and data which are sent to the European Union, and if one knows that the common management plan will then also provide cross-border management of surface waters, then the reference to § 130s, which you, Mr Federal Minister, made in your missions, will not be useful, because I believe that the Intergovernmental Conference will abolish the principle of unanimity in the European Union, which means that Austria will also be very limited from the democratic situation or in relation to its possibilities in the European Union. We liberals therefore propose that we establish constitutional provisions or national targets in time to prevent access by the European Union to Austrian water resources, because I believe that this valuable asset can also be a major business for Austria for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21429	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21450	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We have, in fact, decided unanimously on this novel. I regret that the opposition was not there to discuss with us, because I believe that we can discuss this novel and that it is a good throw as a third part of a comprehensive work. Mr Kopf has already explained this in detail. I don't see anything negative about deregulation either. It could only be seen negatively because of this – I have some understanding of the opposition – because, due to process acceleration, if investments are made that have been held back so far, and if jobs are secured, the government coalition cannot, of course, be so criticised. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The three-month rule is not so bad!]] I must say, Mr Reichhold, that you were actually the most constructive of the opposition today. I do not want to address the drinking water problem now, which could be discussed separately, because we are really one of Europe's most water-rich countries and in a sense one might think of commercial exploitation. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Thank God!]] For example, I thought it would be more sensible to think about how to extract as little water as possible from the sky into channels, but how to distribute it in the landscape. Keywords: Drain channeling. There would be a lot to do. We certainly have no problem with that. You can reason on that. I also have something against it when the EU tells us that we must do so, but we should consider how much we can use our water in a commercial way, but perhaps also in the sense of international solidarity. In my opinion, this is a good novel. As far as groundwater rehabilitation is concerned, we have also exceeded a certain obstacle to aid for farmers. I hope that this will also remove an argument from Mr Achatz's argument in Upper Austria, and he will decide, apart from the two groundwater rehabilitation areas which he has ordered, to take appropriate measures now. He could thus achieve a pilot effect. – I think we have gone a good way. I'd like to make a point. Mr. Barmüller – in himself always very objectively – seems to have been a bit poorly prepared today, as he has assumed, § 33 para. 6 does not exist. – Of course there is! That's exactly the point with the 20 percent. There it says: In § 33f Abs. The word sequences "of more than 20 vH" are replaced by the words "more than 20 vH". (cf. Pk) That's exactly what's inside. The section itself is of course new. There is no passage, but it is equally important and valuable. [[Abg. Auer: He didn't read it! He wasn't there!]] If Mr Langthaler – she can never jump over her shadow – has said again that the Water Protection Report would be lucky with regard to the geographical and hydrographic situation, I would like to point out that anyone has said: So much luck can't be a fool either! If you take the pictures from 1976 and look at the red spots all over Austria and then look at the same picture of 1993/94 – if you take a more up-to-date one, it looks even better – you come to the realization: [[The speaker holds a card in the height]] This is the result of investments and measures. So that's not good luck, because so much luck can't be done by a defender! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, deregulation can also be seen as something negative and as a restriction on the rights of the population. But we can also, as Mr Kopf has done, rightly point out that it was actually a debureaucratisation. He has demonstrated this by many examples. It may well be clear that there are also the indirectors. I think it is good that now the associations and communities are responsible for their ability to look at their indirect leaders and that no longer necessarily the authorities of the state government and the district headquarters need to examine constantly. There is more personal responsibility, perhaps even stricter penalties and reviews. I also believe that the development of this law on water law was necessary in all three steps. The amendment is, of course, comprehensive, because there was initially a government proposal. We have consulted this government template, we have divided it into several tranches, because there has to be some preference. It is a good bill, a good novel that was necessary and important. We will probably take a fourth step in which we can perhaps address some of the inconsistencies that occur in practice. I should also like to thank all those who have worked constructively, all the employees, especially from the Ministry of Agriculture, but also from Parliament. Of course, we agree with this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21526	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21548	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fourth step announced by honourable Member Doppelmüller already shows that there is still a need for action in the Water Law Act Novelle or in the water law, because instead of carrying out a real and comprehensive revision and revision of water law, apart from some procedural changes and deregulations mentioned here, only a mandatory exercise towards the EU was carried out once again. This government is also reluctant to admit that in the government template. This is what the Committee's report says: "Thanks to Austria's accession to the EU, water-related schemes have also become effective for Austria." And then we're going to go on: "To avoid infringement procedures, further adaptation of water law rules is therefore essential." Ladies and gentlemen! This government is trying to remain a model student in the EU, but it hardly cares about the really urgent problems in our Austria. For years, a general revision of water law and harmonisation – because this deregulation is not a real harmonisation – has been promised with other legal entities such as commercial law or mountain law. As far as the 1994 budget hearings are concerned, I promise that there will be a harmonisation between water law and the old-age recovery law. But, like many other claims, these were only announcements, because nothing or almost nothing has yet been done in this Causa, although the harmonisation between the Water Law Act and the Old Load Rehabilitation Act would be very important for many Austrian communities. In most of the Austrian communities there are old landfills, which were closed 10, 15, 20 years ago but which are treated differently, on the one hand, according to the old law on rehabilitation, in which it is still said that these landfills have no priority, that they do not therefore constitute a rehabilitation case, which means that there is no funding for the renovation, on the other hand, according to the Water Law, which knows no proportionality and is required in the comprehensive rehabilitations to safeguard and also room, at the expense of the municipalities, at the expense of the parish citizens. In the end, it is the Austrians who have to pay the bill for the toughness of this federal government. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! In my opinion, you should be less concerned about EU adaptations, but about the problems of the Austrians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They should also take this announced fourth step as quickly as possible and make a real harmonisation between the various legislative bodies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21599	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21620	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The six-year experience in the implementation of the Water Law Act – a very, very sensitive legislative matter – has enabled us to make the protection mechanisms with this novel much more practical and slimmer when maintaining the objective of protection. We can give up at least 15 000 procedures today's decision in the future. From the point of view of agriculture, I am pleased that, in the continuous continuation of the development which we have already begun with the November 1996 amendment, we can now completely eliminate the 20 per cent self-retaining of agriculture in rehabilitation areas, with the involvement of the environmental programmes, in particular the public sector. From a number of very personal experiences, I am also particularly pleased that in thousands to tens of thousands of cases, in the course of the field raining, an authorisation procedure is being carried out for an advertisement procedure. Whoever has ever tried as a practitioner and as an advertiser for a water right to get a permit for a well and to prepare the thick act, where one has to provide advice from well to well of the groundwater streams, which are basically known, again and again – even after five years this often has to be taught again – can understand that many citizens who want to maintain the protection mechanisms completely like it have little understanding that we are shooting over the target. I think we should also admit that the sensitivity to be taken into account in 1990 and the need for action that we had to take into account at the time brings experience after a few years of execution that will enable us to take a reasonable step forward. For me, as a member of the Committee, the way in which the opposition today comments on this revision is basically the best confirmation that we have taken a good and a right step, because in the matter the criticism was very poor. I am pleased that, in a law, recognition and, basically, the satisfaction of members of the opposition are even expressed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21664	Mr Wenitsch. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21685	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the remaining § 105 para. 1 lit. l it says: "In the public interest, an application for authorisation of a project may in particular be deemed inadmissible or only authorised under such conditions if it is to be feared that injury to economic interests could occur through insufficient consideration of domestic products or the domestic labour market." Minister! What does that mean? – This means nothing but a protection of Austrian interests. However, the present draft legislation on water law has not been taken into account for domestic products and domestic workers! This text has simply been deleted! Minister! In my opinion, this is a clear indication that you are not willing to stand up for Austrian interests and that, in fact, the Austrian workers do not care about you. Minister! ==References====External links== This year, you complain that the EU Water Framework Directives on a Community water policy have too little regard for Austrian concerns and that a restriction on Austria's availability of water resources is in no way acceptable. So far, so good. However, with the new amendment, Mr Minister, it is precisely the opposite that will be decided: This clearly shows the coming obedience to the EU! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have clearly forgotten all the promises you made before the EU vote to take a pioneering role in the EU, to create more jobs. The interests of Austrian producers and workers are being damaged by this new law on water law. It is embarrassing how the Austrians are being carried around by you on your nose! With § 32 para. Despite strong protests by citizens and environmental experts and also by the Environment Councils, I would like to mention the Lower Austrian Councillor Blochberger, who at the time was very much opposed to the repressive pressures of the ÖMV in Aderklaa, now establishes a legal framework for the approval of these repressions by the Minister of Agriculture without the approval of the water law authority under certain conditions. What does that mean? What are these certain conditions? What are these conditions worth considering when considering the lobbyism that exists in our government today, as a result of which businesses such as the ÖMV or Schotterbarone without If and But are favoured? Ladies and gentlemen! This really means depowering the countries and their authorities, and we will certainly not give our consent to it, I tell you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I don't just want to criticise here. I would like to admit and welcome the fact that there are some points in this law that will create reliefs in the future. For me, as a farmer, it is natural, among other things, that according to § 33 para. 6 with regard to the 20 per cent self-sufficiency for farmers, a long-standing freedom of movement has now been partially taken into account by my colleague, Aumayr. I say 'partly' because we have to call for the loss of self-retaining without If and But and, secondly, the compensation of farmers for their loss of income by 100 per cent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Yes, I shall vote in favour of this point, so today we will call for a separate vote. Ladies and gentlemen! In this case, I am particularly addressing the farmers' representatives from the ÖVP, who are always so loud up there: You have made a can-destination out of the demand of the liberals to create a determination without If and But! There are some points in this water law law novelle that will find my approval. We will in all cases call for separate votes. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that in future you will not bitterly regret some of the points you decide on today.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21759	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21781	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow up on Mr Schwarzböck's comments. Of course, in the past there have been problems with interpretation and implementation. It was not no matter where similar projects were submitted, it was different from federal to federal, and there were also differences between the districts. In the past, especially in Lower Austria, we have often experienced that there has been a certain fluctuation of the competent lawyers in the district headquarters and in the countries, i.e. that a water law procedure has 'consumed' almost two to three lawyers. And the new lawyer had new ideas and doubts, new opinions had to be drawn up for the new lawyer, there were new delays and, finally, additional costs. I believe that this deregulation, which is undoubtedly such, is a contribution to the simplification of procedures. I would also like to add the words of Mr Doppelmüller, who meant that there would be a fourth novel. But I don't see anything bad in it, I don't consider it to be a disadvantage: A material law must be constantly adapted to new circumstances and new findings. A suggestion: I am missing, for example, in the Water Law Act, something essential which has also been discussed in today's debate, namely definitions and definitions, and I hope that these definitions will be contained in the next novel. As an example, I refer here to the definition of the term "basic water": What is groundwater? – The EU Directive gives us a definition: all subterranean water in the saturation zone, which is in direct contact with the soil or underground. – This is a definition that is not very tangible in practice. We also have an Austrian definition: Groundwater is all water from the surface of the earth to the center of the earth. – This definition, however, is not the stone of the sages either, because with it we lead the water law itself in some sub-areas ad absurdum. Because what would that mean? – If we really take this seriously and implement it, that means we have to execute the Hydrography Act up to the center of the Earth. Then we would have to set up a level of control up to the center of the earth, and finally we would have to comply with the groundwater threshold regulation until the center of the earth. This is technically nonsensible and not feasible! This is neither in the sense of the legislator nor in the sense of the executive! If we are theoretically degrading, that is, going down, then we come to waterers that have a hydrocarbon content which significantly exceeds the 0.06 percent of the groundwater threshold regulation, up to 90 or 95 percent of the hydrocarbon content. Such waters are called oil deposits, and in order to exploit these oil deposits, it is necessary to bring them to the surface and to separate the water. And then in the Austrian funding you have 10 million hectolitres of salt water. Mrs Aumayr! If you're polemizing here, I'll ask you: What do we do with 10 million hectolitres of salt water? Do we go back to the fifties, when this salt water was channeled into the pre-flood and then entered the stream, or do we press this salt water back? I find it extremely unscrupulous when you quote here an article of the "Salzburger Nachrichten" in which it is said that "Hope and herb are skinned." You'd have had it so easy, colleague Aumayr! Two rows behind you are Mr Schöggl, who understands something about it, you just need to ask him how it works! I am now missing the time to give a lecture on oil mining. [[Abg. Aumayr: Save me this!]] But if you think that these salty waters can no longer be pressed in and can no longer be won, then ask here from the speaker's desk the attitude of oil-mining in Austria! This is then a clear statement, with which everyone knows each other! Mrs Langthaler would probably fit in with this! But if your party, the FPÖ, the so-called economic party, is now at once seeking to kill oil mining, you say that here too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Also interesting is the assumption that OMC lobbying operates. This should have already been started in the 1970s, because exactly what you criticise is already in an EC Regulation from 1980 and has been implemented in this adaptation. We still have problems, I add. If you are promoting from different horizons – even on this point I ask you to consult colleagues Schöggl – together prepare, add columners because otherwise this does not work, you can hardly press back into the geographically same groundwater layer. I see, therefore, that the same groundwater layer means chemically similar waters, i.e. that they are re-injected into salt water. In the case of water law, please stick to a concept of groundwater, which every normal person understands, we refer to the surface-near groundwater. But there is also a need for action in this context. On the basis of the water protection report, which I believe is very important, we must note that an area of 870 km2, the March field for which we have been providing a framework for 35 years, is designated as a rehabilitation area. Minister! We really need help in areas such as Marchfeld and the north-eastern wine district, which are listed in the Water Protection Report as the last areas still in quality III to IV. In connection with the resolution adopted by the House, let us put this amendment in place for the restoration of the waters that really need to be protected, and not for the utopia of Mrs Aumayr!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21824	Mrs Horngacher has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21846	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Barmüller said earlier that there was an § 33f para. 6 does not exist. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: I didn't say that! I just said to Mr Auer that he should not quote something that is no longer available.]] He's just missing out on the new law. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Barmüller is a lawyer!]] Mrs Langthaler! In the water protection report, it is found that the situation has become much better, and that is the main reason for this. And this improvement is due to a lot of money being invested. The water protection report now before us documents numerous positive changes in recent years. The connection of waste water treatment plants across Austria has increased from 71 to 75 percent of the population, in Tyrol even to 85 percent. As a result, water quality has been significantly improved. Through the ring pipes the water quality of the lakes has also increased. The collection of the waste water disposal of the Alpine huts, which is also a major problem, is now the basis for a legal, economic and financial assessment. There is a huge need for investment. A problem that has not yet been satisfactorily solved is certainly the treatment of the sewage sludge. The cheapest way of disposal is to export it to agricultural soils. As a farmer's representative, however, I am very opposed to this because sewage sludge contains heavy metals, and there are still a number of other substances that damage the soil on a regular basis and also affect the plants' prosperity. Recently, there was an initiative by the Freeman and the SPÖ in Carinthia. They wanted to decide a novel to the Waste Management Act, which had the content of delivering sewage sludge on agricultural soils. This would make it much cheaper for citizens to clean up wastewater – according to the initiators. However, this request did not find a majority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] I feel this allure just like cynicism. Have you not yet understood what we were able to learn from the BSE disaster, that many things, which bring rapid success in the short term and can remain unsuccessful in the short term, can be caused in the long term, for future generations? – In the meantime, we farmers have had our experiences with environmental problems! It was we who were no longer allowed to feed Chernobyl hay, which had to fill in the vegetables. It was also we who were no longer allowed to deliver milk in the Brixlegg area, because the limit values were exceeded. If there are problems, no one asks who's to blame for it. Then the products will no longer be bought, and the damage we have farmers! The law on water law states that it is a big step towards debureaucratisation. It is an essential contribution to ensuring the economic location of Austria and brings many procedural simplifications, and it should be about 100 000 annually. This innovation will not have a negative impact on the high protection objectives of water rights due to the high environmental standards which played a major role in the negotiations. However, the citizens of the country are freed from unnecessary bureaucracy, and this, Minister, is grateful! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Water Protection Report fully documents a location determination of Austria within the European Union. We have set ourselves the goal of continuing the major improvements in recent years. For water is a very high good and is to be protected.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21909	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21930	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I've done my best to get rid of only two things, and that's what I'm about to do. I am dealing with the topic of water law law-novelle or water protection report on the topic of water quality in connection with agricultural production. I have decided to look at both sides of this medal, and I would like to begin by saying that organic farming in Austria is a very important factor if we want to solve this problem. I think Austria has a leading position in this area in Europe with its more than 20 000 organic farmers. Legal arrangements for organic farming in our country have already existed since 1983. Bio-agriculture is thus an important part of the pan-European agricultural reform. What does organic farming mean? – Among other things, only organic nitrogen fertilizers, i.e. compost, manure or green fertilizers, may be used. Chemical, synthetic pesticides are prohibited. A maximum of two livestock units of farmed animals may be kept per hectare of farmed land. I would like to stress that these are the approaches of organic farming, which have a wide range of positive effects on the environment and, of course, on the water. The issue of the elimination of nitrate problems and the prohibition of the use of chemical-syntthetic pesticides are important. So organic farming is a bad thing about the environment-friendly agricultural reform. This applies in particular to the large problem area groundwater. I therefore believe that organic farming offers an unestimated solution to the many problems facing all agricultural holdings in Austria and should in future be a stronger and stronger solution. When I look at my federal state, the Styria, I can see that already 3,400 farmers – you imagine: 1980 it wasn't even 100! – have changed to organic farming. According to statistics of the Steiermärkische Landwirtschaftskammer, that is 8 percent of the farms. That's exactly what we're in the Austrian section. According to the 1996 Water Protection Report, Austria, as measured by the EU countries, is in the middle field of wastewater treatment. In Austria, we were also able to increase the number of public canal networks from 71 per cent in 1991 to 75 per cent of all households. It would be desirable for us to be able to increase this rate even further over the next ten years, to 80 to 85 percent. At this point it is probably right and cheap to look at the side of the medal and not to hide this problem because it is valid worldwide and therefore also relevant to us. Agriculture comes – and this is a special problem – in the context of drinking water, which is ultimately a good that we cannot estimate high enough, more and more into the environmental field. It is all the more important that conventional agriculture strives to prevent the causes of water damage, particularly by the nature of fertilisation, pesticides and animal husbandry. At the beginning of this year, the United Nations' first global environmental report was presented, pointing out that earth's resources continue to be plundered more than they can generate, especially in the field of drinking water. I think we in Austria are not aware of the wealth we have with our drinking water. All the more so, however, we should be aware of this wealth and protect it. It is an error if, when discussing drinking water, one thinks it is dealing with problems of the Third World. We in Europe, too, have more drinking water problems than some believe. According to the European Environment Agency, most of the agricultural areas exceed the applicable maximum levels for the load on nitrates and pesticides. In 1995 Ken Collins, the chairman of the European Parliament's Environment Committee, pointed out that, for example, the maximum amount of pesticides is significantly exceeded to 75 per cent of the agricultural area. It is remarkable to note that 400 000 people are also supplied with water in Austria, whose pesticides are above the current legal limits. For at least 120,000 inhabitants in Austria, the current nitrate value of 50 milligrams per litre has been exceeded. – I think that shows the problem clearly and also shows where we need to put the lever on. We have also been told in the studies carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture that the pesticide pollution is exclusive and that the nitrate pollution of groundwater is 60 to 80 per cent caused by agriculture. This is also an indication of the need to change towards organic farming. – The approach is that we should also benefit from it! In my opinion, rehabilitation measures have been launched. They do not get as fast as we would wish, but the very high level of participation of our farmers, including the farmers from Styria, in the Öpul programme, the Austrian programme for environmentally sound agriculture, makes me look positive in the future. From this point of view, we should take note of this report and be sure that our farmers will be on the right path for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22005	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22027	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a few comments on the 1996 Water Protection Report. The outstanding result for me is that 72 percent of our water network has grade 1, 1 to 2 or 2. That means there is no or only minor pollution. One of my previous speakers, Mr Doppelmüller, has already pointed out this. I, as he did, not only bring this situation back to the happiness we have, but I see it as a successful result of the environmental policy of our coalition government. But this is not only the result of the achievements of this coalition, but above all of the municipalities. In recent years, billions have been invested in wastewater treatment. I am also saving you only extracts from the success balance of my federal state of Lower Austria. I would just like to point out that, in addition to the federal government and the country, the citizens in particular were particularly required. There was a need for drastic increases in the cost of connection and use in the municipalities. My community, for example, had to raise within three years the calculation rate from 4,60 S to 17 S, so almost quadruple. Thus, the population is subject to great demands. And although in my community the liberals are also polemizing, the people are standing at these charges and above all on the investments that are financed by them! From this point of view, I would like to thank you very much for the understanding of our citizens and for their far-reaching views. We are aware – and the population also sees this – that we are taking a decisive step into our own future. We ensure that, after all, the generations find clean water and an intact environment.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22063	The next speaker is Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22084	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard it several times in the course of this debate: The Novelle Water Law Act, which was passed in 1990, was a very good novel. This good novelle is now replaced by an even better one. That's really nice, you can enjoy it! And since further improvements are possible, we will certainly also take a fourth step. Progress, Dr. Salzl, is nothing bad, but leads to better. Therefore, one must take forward-looking steps, for a law cannot stand on a certain status quo. Ladies and gentlemen! Through the Novelle water law law in 1990, we have managed to achieve really excellent quality classes of water over the years, especially in flowing waters. – But I would also like to take this opportunity to say briefly: Today, if we have mainly rivers in Austria with an excellent water quality, we also owe this to the municipalities that have contributed to the construction of sewage treatment plants. – Let me give an example from my district as an honourable Member. The water is cleared to 85 to 87 percent in the large-scale plant of the state capital of Vienna in Simmering. Therefore, I think it is unnecessary – and I say this again today – to improve the degree of clarification even further. Because what would it mean if we came to over 90 percent? – The water quality of the Danube water below Vienna is already excellent, it is beautiful bathing water! There are water quality classes 2 there. If we continue to clarify, it costs a lot of money, but in the future it does not do anything: Further to the east, the entire dirt is channeled to the Danube, the water is not clarified there. It would therefore be better to use this money for other environmental measures. Mr Kummerer gave an excellent, specialized speech of high quality and said that there are still some areas in Austria – for example in its district – where it is necessary to clean up water. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say: This water law law Novelle takes another step towards environmental improvement. I do not want to congratulate the Federal Minister for Agriculture. It is part of this environmental movement, which enables us to live in a healthy environment.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22120	The next speaker is Mr Kröll. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22141	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Although it is very late – already after midnight, and I think I am the last in the list of speakers – I am nevertheless allowed and made possible that I am still, because so many mayors have waited for this day, as one of them and also in the name of the congregation here at this point thank you. Mr Minister, thank you very much, like your employees, you, dear friend Jakob Auer, colleagues from the government partner and all those who have contributed! For one thing this water law law law Novelle certainly brought in 1997 and will still bring it: Following the urgent deadline adjustments in December of the previous year, the recent agreement on the transitional provision for the landfills in April 1997 will be dealt with in this novel. The high environmental standard - contrary to what Mr Langthaler said - will be maintained, the respect for feasibility will be welcomed, the deregulation will finally begin – it would be good if it were not only to be started here – and the principle of procedural simplification will bring a real remedy here, will bring cost savings, and the flexibility of the standard of technology is an old demand precisely for the communities that are now being realized. The proportionality is addressed with this, and practical implementation will serve environmental protection more than it harms him, as was feared by opposition speakers today. I therefore believe that we simply have to say that, Mr Barmüller, it is not true that there has been no serious work by Mr Auer and everyone in the committee, but the opposite is true and correct. To Mrs Langthaler's statement, I should like to say once again that it is not a step back, but it is quite a step forward in my view. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Then think of § 4a!]] Nevertheless, everything together represents significant progress. You can turn it and turn it around as you like. If, like the mayors, you live with these things in practice day after day, you can only say: This novel has made considerable progress! I often thank all those who have contributed!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22180	Now, Mr Mag, the Federal Minister, is still in charge. Molterer to speak. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22201	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll do it very briefly. I believe that the essential change with this law on water law, Novelle, is likely to be seen in the fact that in a reasonable dialogue and discourse, it has succeeded in maintaining the protection objective of water rights and, at the same time, in taking massive and essential steps towards deregulation, simplification and cost-saving. In this way, I think that this law, which will be passed by you, ladies and gentlemen, will also be exemplary for other legal bodies. It will succeed in achieving significant cost savings for the administration, in particular for the countries, for the municipalities, but also for businesses and for citizens. As we have said today, we expect only administrative savings in the order of about 150 million schilling. There are also substantial simplifications. For example, it was necessary for a photo store that developed films to obtain the water-law approval from the head of state, while the trade regulations provided for an approval with the district headquarters. This will now be concentrated and both approvals for the companies will be obtained in the district administration authority. It is very crucial that the authorisation of water law is no longer necessary for the indirect inductors, because it would be strange to have to be approved once again for a smaller plant which introduces an approved sewerage which results in an approved wastewater disposal. This is reluctance, and a reporting procedure is therefore normized in the new law. It is essential that the regulatory empowerment in the new § 12a now also offers new opportunities for small installations or, for example, for irrigation. These are the most essential parts. I am also grateful that Mrs Langthaler, for example, referred to the question of municipal waste water systems, which have been decentralized, because this novelle is also going in the right direction in this regard. Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen, that I too am grateful for the good cooperation, especially with the officials of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Let me also say a very clear word to Mrs Aumayr. I stand up for protection against the staff of the resort because the officials of the resort do not deserve to be disqualified in a way that you have done today.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22245	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. I ask you to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote, and we will vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 727 of the supplements. Hiezu has honourable Member Ing. Langthaler asked for a separate vote on some of the provisions. In addition, Members of the European Parliament have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Ladies! Mrs. Jager! I'm asking for attention! [[Abg. Arbitrators: The colleague hunters has sat well! That was another colleague!]] I have seen two ladies and mentioned one of them if you have nothing against it, Mr Deputies. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was the Hagenhofer!]] We vote on Article I paragraphs 2, 15 § 31a para. 1, 3 to 5, 16a, 19 § 32a para. 1, 2 and 4, 24a, 25, 54a, 55b § 134 para. 7 and Z 60 Annex C as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The provisions I have mentioned have been adopted by a large majority. We shall also vote on Article I, paragraphs 3, 10a, 33, 36a and 38 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign on this matter. . These provisions have also been accepted by the majority of the people mentioned by me. I shall now vote on Article I 18, 36i, 39, 41, 47 and 50 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of confirmation. - That's the majority. These provisions have been adopted by the majority. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Gaugg! I think it would be useful to concentrate at least on the vote. Finally, I shall now vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this bill may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 727 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This resolution has been adopted by a large majority. (E 61.) Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-72 of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – The notice takes place in a majority way. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 729 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. Finally, I would like to vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 730 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This report is also adopted by a majority. 18. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (680 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the gambling law and the Fees Act (747 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22344	We're coming to the 18th. Agenda item. Oral reporting is not taking place; it has been abandoned. We are going into the debate. As the first speaker, I give Mr Mag. Screaming the word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22375	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Federal Minister, with this government template, you provide a lesson on how to defend a monopoly, even though you should speak as the Federal Minister for Finance of the Market Economy. Federal Minister! Why is it that in the first draft government plan, which comes from your ministry, a capital capital of 100 million schillings is set out, but then, at once, a sheet of exchange is used and this capital of a stock company is increased to 500 million schillings? Then it comes to desert protests. The Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs says that this would be rejected by decision, since the minimum capital allocation is sufficient. The municipality says that this will further strengthen the monopoly of a private operator. The Government of Burgenland believes that this is an inadmissible restriction on market access, because the basic capital would not be allowed to be high with 500 million schilling. The Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs says that there is no comparable restriction of access in Europe. This would therefore be EU-critical. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Böhacker: He doesn't listen to you!]] What is to be said if you seem to defend a monopoly by always targeting the legislator in an economically truly depressing manner, which has been defined in the Annual Share Company's Annual Shareholders' Meeting just before? They say: This basic capital that this AG lays down is the basic capital that I normize so that another operator gets a concession. Free according to the motto: Casinos Austria AG lays down a basic capital in a general meeting, and afterwards the legislator comes up and says: This capital is for me the basis for the fact that another competitor does not receive a concession. To perpetuate a monopoly in a way that is economically unbearable in a free market economy. Federal Minister for Finance! We must say this clearly and clearly from this point of view. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You don't have to do this early morning!]] It seems that you have left something of courage in the Committee, because as a result of the fact that the protests were apparently too massive, there was an amendment which now reduces this capital from 500 million to 300 million. Federal Minister for Finance! I already know that Casinos Austria AG has a very important task and that this business is a very risky one, but will you – we have been discussing banks for very long in recent weeks and months in this House – also change the Banking Act in the future to raise the basic capital of at least 70 million Schilling to 300 million Schilling? [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Mr President! What's that? The Federal Minister is always talking!]] In Austria, you can operate a bank with 70 million Schilling basic capital, which Casinos Austria AG requires 500 million, now reduces 300 million. Why is that? You have remained guilty of this answer in the committee. I hope you will not be guilty of this answer again today. But I am already aware of why it is all this, Minister of Finance. 34 percent of Casinos Austria AG shares Lotto-Toto GesmbH, 7 percent of this Lotto-Toto GesmbH holds public broadcasting ORF. And if I look at an internal communication from a general intern to national intendants and chief producers, it becomes clear to me that it actually wants to establish this monopoly of the Lotto-Totto-Gesellschaft by eliminating competitors by not being allowed to advertise in the ORF and that topics which these companies want to place in the media are not included in the ORF's programme. [[Abg. Böhacker: Intendant Seiler!]] This is a clear situation when the general intern, when the commercial director issues such a statement to all these persons. [[Call:Who says that]] The general intern of the ORF, Seiler, says: "In this situation, it is very important for the company's policy that casinos and betting offices are not operated by the ORF and that there is no active help so that the ORF does not help these companies to obtain a desired publicity." [[Abg. Böhacker: That's incredible!]] In other words, there is the Lotto-Toto-Society, in which Casinos Austria AG – a monopoly company because there is no second – is involved to 34 percent, 7 percent holds the ORF itself, and 188 million is transferred to the ORF by the Lotto-Totto-Gesellschaft. In other countries, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance, the TV companies are paying for the lottery attraction – that is the point – so that they are allowed to transfer such a lotto-toto-transmission at all. With us this is just the other way round. [[Abg. Meisinger: State capitalism!]] Of course, this also makes it clear why, as a government, you, as Minister of Finance, are controlling the instrument of capital in such a way that all co-competitors are eliminated. And that, Minister of Finance, is not a free market economy, as we imagine it within a state that is a member of the European Union. You should think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22498	Mrs Huber has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22528	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In view of the midnight hour, I would like to refer very briefly to this gambling law. It was particularly important here in our group that the concessionists have adequate capital resources. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now the financial expert at SPÖ speaks!]] Mrs. Pablo! Not everything you don't understand, others don't. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I just said that you are a financial expert!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Keep reading! Don't stop!]] It was particularly important to us that the law had the appropriate capital resources, because I too consider it particularly important that everything should be very ordered in this sensitive area, especially because the concessionists must prove the origin of the funds. It is to be expected that investors who, I would say, are not quite as clean as ever, cannot establish themselves as easily as possible. I think that this novel provides more clarity in the field of gambling, as a whole, that it gives both game providers and players a higher level of security. Social democracy will therefore be given the approval of this novelle. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[0:30]] President Dr Heinrich Neisser: Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22607	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have recently experienced some novelties that need to be whipped through here, and there is really the question – we have already asked them at the December-Novelle –: Who does that actually use? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Cui bono?]] We have decided an § 56a, which has actually caused great uncertainty, which is why it has caused great uncertainty – it is about operating closures – because in the current novel, this period is up to the 1st. It will be extended in January 1999. On the one hand, the current novel is about the restriction of entry by a very high initial capital, it is also about maintaining a concession extension, a concession extension for electronic lotteries, for Bingo and Keno. (real) Who does that benefit? – Of course, the one who currently holds the concession, namely the Austrian gambling lottery. Of course, we need to know what the share ratios look like. As you all know, a discussion on the sale of P.S.K. shares is currently being held, and the P.S.K. 34 percent of the Austrian Lotto-Toto-Society. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Colleague stupid! Now you should be careful, otherwise you are not informed again!]] The public is getting along pretty unspoiled. However, one must also know that this Austrian Lotto-Toto-Society is a very lucrative company. There is a profit distribution to the shareholders in a range of between 400 and 600 million schillings, one also creates considerable silent reserves and then still has liquidity reserves of several billions in capto. This company is a very profitable company for Austrian conditions, as has been said. There is no doubt that one is planning an administrative building of 400 million, which ultimately costs 1.2 billion schilling, and the value of the company's share Lotto-Toto can be estimated at about 10 billion shillings. But this also means that the 34 percent share of P.S.K. the Lotto-Toto has a value between 3 and 3.5 billion schilling. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Colleague stupid! You should be careful, otherwise you don't know what's going on again!]] In the course of the privatisation of the P.S.K. The P.S.K. in the Lotto-Toto, which is not fair to the market, not to the extent that only the distribution of profits was used, but in no way carried out a business assessment, in which the silent reserves or the liquidity reserves should have been used. You can certainly remember exactly how this took place in 1990 in the privatisation of the transport office. At the time, a share of 170 million schillings was also assessed, and only when the liberals - primarily the party-obmann of the liberals - drew attention to the fact that this proportion is considerably higher, at least three times higher, could a realization of around 600 million schilling be achieved in the following year, which brought an additional sale revenue to the then Minister of Finance in the order of 430 million schilling. This is why the question of privatization of the postal savings bank is one of the following: One cannot make an assessment of the P.S.K. shares in the lotto-Toto by using only the profit distribution to assess, but one must make an assessment according to commercial considerations. That, Mr. Finanzminister, could bring you between 2 and 3 billion Schilling more in return. The lotto toto should be prior to the privatisation of the P.S.K. Over the stage, from P.S.K. to be released and parked at a public investment company in order not to be sold again under the true value of the company. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have already pointed out that it is essential who is the beneficiaries of this matter. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The dumb sleeps too!]] It is also essential who the shareholders are there and whether a shareholder who is already sitting in there acquires these shares in the Lotto-Toto-Society – for example, I am thinking of the Rauffeise phone. If you look at the participation model of the Lotto-Toto-Society [[The speaker shall hold a sheet in height]] There are 34 percent of the shares held by Casinos Austria AG, 34 percent by P.S.K., 29 percent holds a banking holding in which the Raiffeisenkasse already has the saying. On the other hand, in the casinos Austria, which is 34 percent involved in the Lotto-Toto, 33.3 percent of the coin is inside and 29 percent is again the Raiffeisen sector with Medial Beteiligungs GmbH, with Raiffeisen, Leipnik-Lundenburger and so on, which are each 100 percent daughters. The others are private artists. If you now want a strategic partner who is already represented as shareholders to acquire these shares without having previously acquired the Lotto-Toto shares from the P.S.K. The following is to be triggered: In Austria, there will be a shareholder in the Lotto-Toto-Society with a majority of about two thirds, who has the say in the Austrian lotto-toto-business. This measure, I would like to pay tribute to Ladies and gentlemen, we certainly cannot give our approval in two ways: First of all, Minister of Finance, you should ensure that it does so with regard to the release of the P.S.K. There are clear conditions for participation, in the second case you would also be a great benefit, because you could save between 2 and 3 billion schilling more through a realisat to the true economic value, which would be very good for your budget. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're sleeping again, I'm telling you!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22723	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22766	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As you have cut down the 300 million shilling capital, Mr Commissioner, I can tell you that this has been relatively simple. This was nothing more than the relation of the development of revenue in the field of gambling over the years. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Col. Höchtl, who is the P.S.K. Now?]] That was, when you look back at 1967 and count on it, about 300 million Schilling, for which we, Mrs Huber and I, have tabled this amendment to the Committee. I believe that this is a basic capital facility, which is actually based on development in terms of content. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can't argue such bad laws!]] Secondly, As far as the innovation as a whole is concerned, we have already stressed, in the case of such novels of the more often, that, as a result of the corresponding development, changes, adjustments are always necessary. We have also made certain additions by introducing additional concession charges for new game types. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Of the 7 billion that the Minister of Finance lacks, we already have 2! Now we only need 5 more!]] There has also been a certain need for a highly judicial decision to be expected in the foreseeable future. That is why we have suspended § 56a for a year and a half. In addition, Mr Gusenbauer will, in just a few seconds, submit an amendment which he has signed with me in the direction of providing for a fee exemption for inputs made to Parliament or to Parliament's institutions. We from the Austrian People's Party agree with this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22832	Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner has now come to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time for your club is 7 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: 27 minutes?]] 7!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22875	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are two points I would like to make in the gambling law. I assume that you, like the Liberal Group, have received a letter from representatives of youth protection organisations in which they have asked us not to agree to this novel because, so to speak, they see a danger for young people in bingo and Keno trade. We have discussed the club in-house and we have come to the view that these gambling games cannot be prevented through electronic media and that it is therefore a reasonable decision if these variants of gambling are at least perceived by concessional entrepreneurs. – That is one of the reasons why we agree with this novel. If we can't prevent it, I think it's best to steer it on regulated tracks. The second point concerns the new capital requirements for gambling operators. On this point, I share Mr Trattner's concerns when we talk about what happened at the P.S.K. It would happen. For it should not happen that there is another such thing as at the time at this travel agency, whose name I do not know now; but the matter is still remembered to me. It was about a privatisation start, but I don't know exactly who it was anymore. In any case, we should consider carefully the next privatisation start and analyze the structures. In the interests of the Republic, Mr Federal Minister, we should ask for a fair price for it, achieve it – and not do any business next to it. In other words, I believe that gambling companies are quite appropriate for such capital requirements as they are provided for in this novel. This is because it is undertakings that carry a corresponding risk. Access restrictions should also be effective. Mr. President-in-Office Wallner, I think you're somewhere in the gallery: But that does not mean that I am always totally uncritical of your efforts! With your monopoly in Austria with high walls, large tins and the expansion of all possible defense mechanisms, we will also have to deal critically with each other on a given occasion! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22915	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22936	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As already announced by Mr Höchtl, I shall make an amendment which obviously has an anticyclic character: Since the Federal Government is planning to increase fees, we are taking a real step towards democratization by allowing inputs to the parliamentary bodies to be free of charge. [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the question of gambling monopoly law: I take seriously the critical objections that have come from the opposition. I believe that, after we have received numerous reviews of this novel from a wide range of areas, we have to consider something in principle about the game monopoly law. You can have different views on this: Many people feel that gambling is an immoral or dangerous matter to themselves, others have a different relationship to it. However, negative external effects can certainly be expected. I therefore believe that it is a general objective that a large part of the gambling, if there is already gambling in a society, should be carried out on a legal basis and therefore also tried to restrict the illegal field. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're pretending to be a disease!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I have a completely relaxed relationship to that. I believe, however, that the whole of the system should be properly regulated. We note that the market in this sector is developing very dynamically, also because of new technological methods. We also see that there are obviously several suppliers on the market. It is also pending a number of highest court decisions on this issue. I do not think it is good to be prompted every three or four months, on the basis of any decisions, to decide here again and again in the National Council on this matter. I therefore believe that the time has come to reorganise the game monopoly law according to certain guidelines as a whole. We should deal with this issue and highlight the relevant one: there are regulated conditions of access everywhere, there are relatively hard checks for existing or new concessionaries and there is also a reasonable tax return on the income from gambling for the Republic. We should also talk about the areas in which we can use some of these funds for purpose – which is partly the case now – in order to compensate for any negative external effects of gambling. I believe that this is a reasonable process for the future if we want to prevent us from discussing a new novel to the game monopoly law every three to four months. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23002	The amendment tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, which is sufficiently supported by the Rules of Procedure, is included in the negotiations. Mr Edlinger has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23026	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Only four comments: First: I believe that it is clear that this innovation is intended to regulate the demarcation by means of gambling devices of electronic lotteries originating from the telecommunications sector, already provided for in the law. Secondly, I would like to point out that this new regulation does not extend the monopoly, but merely regulates how and how concessions are transferred. Thirdly, The suggestion, Lotto, Toto and in the case of the sale of the P.S.K. We will, of course, be very thorough in assessing certain things, and also, as I believe, we will be assessing and assessing them according to economic principles. Fourth: I regret that I have remained guilty in the Committee on Parliamentary Deputies of Mr Schreiner's answer, but unfortunately he has not been there.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23067	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 747 of the Supplements. Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Höchtl and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request, and Mrs Haidlmayr has also made a request for a separate vote on this request. I shall therefore vote on the supplementary proposal and, finally, on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Höchtl and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new Article III. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous. This additional request has been adopted unanimously. We shall vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This draft law has been adopted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this draft law, I ask for a sign of approval. – The draft has also been adopted by the majority at third reading. 19. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (670 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance Act 1994 (750 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23137	We shall now proceed to item 19 of the agenda. There was no written reporting. We are going into the debate. Mrs Haidlmayr spoke. As you have only a short speaking time available to you, Madam Member, I would like to comply with your request, and you can make your speech from your seat. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23167	Mr President. Federal Minister! It is in our interest to increase the amount of coverage from 12 million to 15 million schilling. However, I would like to point out - and this is particularly important to me - that this regulation in liability insurance, as it is now being sought, cannot be a permanent solution. It must be assumed, at last, that drivers are also bound to suffer from damage caused by them, which is unlimited. It should not have to be held by the state from a certain amount – and be it 15 million schilling now – but in individual cases the person who is to blame. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, approximately 26,000 children under 15 years of age suffer permanent damage or damage caused by long-term healing. This costs health and social affairs a lot of money. For these long-term costs, a coverage of 15 million schillings is never sufficient. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] We Greens argue that there should be a regulation in the future to ensure that all costs caused by a traffic accident are only paid more through liability insurance and that there must be no more legal entitlement on the part of social security schemes. It is intended to cover liability insurance only for these damages. I mean, Minister of Finance, it can only be in your interest if it finally comes to the cost of it and finally the causer has to bear the costs. Because on this In the future, it will be possible to reduce the costs of the disabled, in the social sector and in the health sector. I think that can only be in the interests of all people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23210	There is no further word message to this effect. The debate is closed. A final word of the rapporteur does not take place either. We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 670 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This draft law has been adopted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, may make this known by a sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. 20. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (666 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, which amends the German Federal Tax Act 1988, the Federal Tax Code, the Law on Jurisdiction of Return 1962, the Law on Court Fees and the Labour and Social Courts Act (751 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23267	We're coming to the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Böhacker. Your club will be available for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23294	Mr President. Mr Bundesfinanzminister! High house! In the course of the 1996 tax package, the government parties raised the minimum corporation tax from 15 000 S to 50 000 S. This increase was made against the warnings of all financial lawyers and against the warnings of the financial experts of the liberals. Result: 27 000 appeals, 11 000 appeals to the Constitutional Court. Finally, the Constitutional Court repealed this provision as unconstitutional, thus fully confirming the concerns expressed by the financial experts of the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How do these Federal Governments and these government parties react? – They continue to drive the game, according to the motto: How far can I go before the Supreme Court? There is now again a draft law which provides for an increase in the minimum corporation tax. This procedure is again unconstitutional, and I dare to say that today, it will come to an end once again by the Constitutional Court because, in turn, the principle of income taxation will be violated by failing to base the income tax on the performance of a company. Similarly, inequalities continue to be taxed at the same time. If Mr. Cot is boldly euphoric, the 15 000 S rule for "young entrepreneurs" is a great success and a contribution to the business start-up wave, then I must say to him: Mr President, you probably only exempted young entrepreneurs in the first year from the 25 000 S or 50 000 S so that they can pay and work the inclusion fee and the chamber contributions at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, The approach to sales is also completely wrong, because sales are not the same as revenue. For a wholesaler, 50 million sales are rather few, but a freelancer, for example, an economic fidelity GesmbH, with a turnover of 50 million schilling would be a giant. Therefore, the overall concept of this new minimum corporation tax is again incorrect and unconstitutional. We liberals will therefore not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23345	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Merchant. The speaking time of your club is only 17 minutes. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But this is not a duty!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23374	I'll try to use those 17 minutes. – Dear Minister! High house! This new minimum body tax scheme has therefore become necessary because the Constitutional Court has repealed the regulation of the Structural Adjustment Act 1996. However, it has not, in principle, spoken against a minimum corporation tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] The older scheme with the minimum rate of 15 000 S has also been maintained. The Constitutional Court only required that the amount be guided by a fictional amount of taxation, a normal return on the minimum capital used. One can assume that this is the case now, and that is probably the case. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a wishful thought!]] – This is not a wishful thought, it will be! There is also a breakdown in this now provided for law. The minimum price for a GmbH is 25 000 S and for a AG 50 000 S. Differentiation has been made for companies with sales of more than 50 million Schilling, and the KöSt-Satz has also been set for the first year following the establishment of a GmbH or AG with 15 000 S. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] I believe that the essential reason why there must be a new regulation is the fact that we have introduced this minimum-cost under the Structural Adjustment Act in order to achieve a certain budgetary objective. It also provided for a certain distribution of the benefits of workers and entrepreneurs. The workers have provided these benefits on time and to a precise extent due to changes in wages and restrictions on social expenditure, but the undertakings are not entirely affected by the loss of these minimum costs. There had therefore to be a new regulation on this point. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is class fight!]] This is not at all a class struggle, but necessary in the sense of the agreed distribution between individual social groups! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A mistake of beauty in this current arrangement is that it will bring in about a third less than the original one. I assume that this is a fictitious asset in the sense of the measures that workers may be burdened once. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Last point: In the debate on social balance in the Structural Adjustment Act and on the issue of what is not brought about by entrepreneurship, although it is made up, I am concerned with bringing road pricing and truck tolls along. This is about 3.5 billion schilling, which is about five times the amount of birth aid. Therefore, when we are already talking about social symmetry and agreements, it is absolutely necessary to lift this truck toll just as much as this minimum choice. This is also necessary for transport policy, so you should give up your resistance, which the Minister of Economic Affairs is constantly meeting here! These measures are also part of the future social balance of an overall package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23458	Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 minutes remaining time for your club. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23480	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A trade unionist of the public service has recently expressed himself in the media, very clearly. He said that this Parliament passed "unbelievable laws" and forgave thousands of financial officials to carry out "foolish laws". This cannot be reconciled with the savings variants imposed on the public service. I consider this statement to be an enormity, though not of my own concern, because I already agree. But on one point I have to give him the right: They repair a law that was just thrown back by the Supreme Court, a bit and then bring it back in. Mr Kaufmann has just given the reason for this, because it requires a certain symmetry, that the big-coalition balance requires: If workers have to do something, they must also do something, without regard to whether the measure is logical, justified, economic and in any direction guiding or not. – Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, that is the fruit of great coalitionary considerations! Ladies and gentlemen! This has nothing to do with logic or tax justice, so acceptance is also low. For if the taxpayer cannot understand what the legislator had in mind and in mind when he passed a law, then he will show a greater tax resistance – and he is right! Mr Federal Minister for Finance, only if we are able to pass laws in such a way that they are comprehensible will this be better. It would have been much better if you had said: We have abolished property tax, but in the case of corporate tax, we believe that an asset tax must be introduced. For what you decide here, Mr Federal Minister, as you know, is a property tax for corporations – and nothing else! It would therefore be more honest to proceed from corporate taxation. For it is not a income tax, but a tax on the substance. Therefore, more honesty would be required! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. I am almost sorry that I always have to look at you during these debates. But now you have quite finally said that you have something to do with your clientele: We've done something for the young businessmen. – Mr. Stumbling! Enjoy yourself! What you did is not worth the paper it was written on! It's neither affluent nor advocacy, it's nothing at all! You should once be true to principles and say to your coalition partner: That goes too far, I can't believe that as an economic chamber representative of my clientele, who pays me and feeds me and as their great advocate I do! That, Mr President, would be a sincere policy. If you say, At least we did something for the young entrepreneurs, then I can say: You have done little for the young companies, and what you have done is not pleasing for them! In this context, I remind you of the worst of all the laws you have agreed to, the Workers' Protection Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23520	Mr Dr. Stummfully has now been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23563	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haselsteiner has recently provided an example of the fact that, as an opposition, one simply has no responsibility for the general policy. It is relatively easy, Mr Haselsteiner, to give his speeches here from the speaker's desk. I respect that you have a lot of responsibility for your business – but you have no responsibility for government policy, so you have easy to talk here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the Liberal Forum and the Freemans.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After 14 hours of parliamentary debate, it is probably not the right time to discuss in detail here, so I call only three points. First point: Mr Haselsteiner! I admit that it is not a joy for a company to pay a profit tax even if there is no profit. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Dear gentlemen! However, one must be so fair – and this distinguishes us from the opposition – to stand up to political pacts. We have agreed to the Structural Adjustment Act on a minimum cold, and we are in favour of this pact, because we are true to the pact, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That is the difference with the opposition, Mr. Hazelsteiner! Pact fidelity is required! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, We have, of course, noted that the Constitutional Court has declared that the single rate of 50 000 S is not constitutional. That is why it has been divided into 15 000, 25 000, 50 000 and 75 000 pp. Mr. Hazelsteiner! I very much asked the Constitutional Service for an opinion before this was discussed in the Financial Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's class fight!]] In this opinion, there is no word to mention that this is unconstitutional. I assume that in the view of the Constitutional Service, this system is well-constitutional. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, Mr Haselsteiner! I am quite clear that a billionaire can say very easily: 90 million schillings are a nuisance for young entrepreneurs. – However, this is a very nice discharge for those affected! Mr. Hazelsteiner, you are doing this twice as easily as possible: They speak easily as opposition – and easily as billionaire! You have to say that here too!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23639	Mrs Magnette is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Frieser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23660	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A word from the mouth of an economic fidelity: Mr Ofner, you have just heard that we have obtained an opinion from the Constitutional Service. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: So what?]] We assume that this is the case before the Constitutional Court. Mr Haselsteiner, now to you: Usually men of your age or your social provenance are on the golf course at this time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] It is certainly commendable in itself and also an enrichment that you are sitting here in the house! Nevertheless, I cannot follow your current argument. They say that it would have been fairer to titulate the kost as an asset destroyer. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: It would have been more real!]] It may have been that this would have been more true. We had a similar constellation in commercial taxation and then differed between a commercial capital tax and a commercial income tax. It's just a question of the concept. Otherwise, we should have decided on an asset tax law. I believe that it has failed to save this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] No, that's not a question of selling! I think it is also justified that capital companies have different charges to pay! Dear Mr. Hazelsteiner! You wear Their arguments in quite a charming way before, and then and when they also have something right in themselves: In this case, however, you are not in the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23721	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure and I ask you to take the places. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 751 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give them their approval to give a corresponding sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever would like to give the draft law the approval at third reading, I would also ask him to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 21. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (584 of the Supplements): Amendments relating to Annexes 4 and 6 to the 1972 Customs Convention on Containers (748 of the Supplements) 22. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (649 of the Supplements): Convention on the establishment of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) together with investments (749 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23788	We now come to points 21 and 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. There are no words available. We are therefore immediately entering the voting procedure. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Amendments relating to Annexes 4 and 6 to the Container Customs Convention in 584 of the Supplements shall be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to do so to give a corresponding sign. – This is done with a single voice. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that this State Treaty, with regard to authentic Chinese, Russian and Spanish texts, is to be made known by the fact that they are imposed for public inspection in the Federal Ministry of Finance. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is also done with voice simplicity. [[Objection.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No! Peter's too lazy to rise!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You have forgotten your group!]] Excuse me! This is done by majority voting. The request was nevertheless accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee to grant approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, namely the Convention establishing the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and its investments in 649 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to do so to give a corresponding sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23861	We shall also proceed to the negotiation of the proposal for a directive. May. Stadler and comrades on the establishment of an investigative committee to investigate political and legal responsibility in connection with the sale of the federal shares at the Creditanstalt-Bankverein to Bank Austria. As this request has now been distributed to all Members, a reading by the author is not necessary. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23906	We are going into the debate. I recall the time limits according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure: Founder 10 minutes, additional Members 5 minutes, members of the Federal Government and State Secretary should not take more than 10 minutes of speaking time. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. 10 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23931	Mr President. High house! The clubman of the Austrian People's Party, at the beginning of the preliminary meeting of the ÖVP on government clause in Rust via TV, explained to the astounded public – contrary to what his colleague had said to the German Chancellor before: We have been lied, lied to by Strich and by the thread. – Ladies and gentlemen, the entire Austrian People’s Party has been lied. He also said who he was talking about, because it was out of the mind without any further thing to hear. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What did I mean?]] Sure, you've been lied by your own government partner. Or didn't you mean that? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I didn't mean that!]] Mr Khol, then be so kind and make this clear. The whole Austrian public – up to the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" – assumes that you have meant that you have been lied by your government partner, contrary to what your own political group member stupidly explained. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of this bank-causa is: Has the Federal Chancellor of the Austrian public said the untruth, as Mr Stocker said in the Grazer "Small Newspaper": "Is he therefore a liar" – I quote only the Grazer "Small Newspaper" – "or" – says Mr Stocker – "Does he really have no idea? Then – Mr Stocker says – "he's just a fool." Stocker, ladies and gentlemen: An old Grand Coalitionary, this coalition asserts that it is in this great coalition as it is among liars and fools! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is, I think, a matter where the Austrian public has the right to... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] There you only have to read to your own writers who are funding you yourself, ladies and gentlemen! Read to those who tell you what the Austrian public, what the fellow citizens think of this deal! This is not to be read in any revolving pages. The pathetic role of the Austrian People's Party is presented in the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" (Neue Zürcher Zeitung), which is not a socialist newspaper, nor one that is close to the FPÖ, but a very bourgeois newspaper), and Michael Maier of the "Standard" took it joyfully on Monday. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. He's talking about the "Facture of the State-Sustaining Role". By the way, you've delivered it again today. "Flat" says Mr. Maier in the "Standard", also a newspaper that hangs on the drop of press promotion. Thus, Mr Maier speaks of the "Failure of the Austrian People's Party's State-Sustaining Strategy". And then he goes on to say – I quote Maier literally –: "The nativity of the ÖVP is as sensational as its indignation is now embarrassing. Whoever can be pulled over the table like this from the SPÖ must also expect that the soup pot will still be poured over to him." "It" – meaning the Austrian People's Party – "is irrelevant in the political design and stumbles from one embarrassment to the other. She's a chamber worm forward", he probably had a silent eye on my colleague, "which sees itself as a particular cartel. She's wearing the state on her nose and she's talking about the plumage. It turns out to be a managed clumps party, which is presented by SPÖ according to all the rules of art. She's just abandoned the ridiculousness." – End of the quote, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Who is Michael Maier? There is freedom of expression!]] Michael Maier on Monday in the "Standard", ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One could turn to the agenda if not basic questions... [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Who's that after?]] Ah, don't you know Michael Maier? You can also read something different from just your provincial pages. You know, Mr Michael Maier puts your finger in a wound that you have to hurt, in the wound that you were unsuspecting that your people are sitting in all the bodies and that you have not been informed. This also writes the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung". You should have been informed if you didn't send people in there who don't know what it's all about, and then don't tell you. Then you'll be surprised when you realize that there is a pre-purchasing right that the whole SPÖ knew of this right of pre-purchasing that this pre-purchasing right became public – only the Austrian People's Party knew nothing. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! They took care of it. Maier and the "New Zurich Newspaper" are right: You've managed, you've lost any economic competence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have been pulled over the table by the SPÖ according to all the rules of art, and you also thank yourself for it. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You will have got enough money for it!]] We have now seen in Rust how you all fell into the arms at the sight of the Neusiedlersee – to the sounds of the emperor anthem. Ladies and gentlemen! If you are not interested in informing when the report to the Minister of Finance has been issued pursuant to § 20 of the Banking Act to the Minister of Finance Climate, which was exactly the content of this report, whether Mr Randa fully complied with his reporting obligation under the law, or whether one tries to cover up this reporting obligation in the way Mr Edlinger tried to present at the last meeting. If you are no longer interested in it, you have resigned as a party. Explain You are the worm forward of the Chamber of Commerce, explain yourself to the SPÖ branch! That would be more honest to the Austrian population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you are no longer interested in finding out what the state of knowledge about the German Chancellor's right of pre-purchase as then Minister of Finance in the evening before the negotiations – which at that time Mr. Klubobmann Khol found "to be puke" – is from the 11th to the 12th. January this year, if you're not interested in this, ladies and gentlemen, then that's your problem. We're interested! We are interested in whether this Chancellor has violated the law, whether he has sold an Austrian solution to the Austrian public, which was also to be understood in the law – or whether this Federal Chancellor has implemented a counter-opportunity in the knowledge of the existence of pre-purchasing rights and syndicate agreements. If you are not interested if you are not interested in learning how you were pulled over the table – we are interested, not because it concerns the Austrian People's Party, but because it concerns the Austrian people or, as the law says, the national interests of this country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Chancellor has clearly violated these interests, but the ÖVP is coming back for an export offensive. In Rust, the climate was so good, it was all so harmonious that one decided on an export offensive. The EIA should not have noticed that this export offensive is being re-established by Mr Randa and Mr Scholten's offices. So you really can't be saved, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party must already be pleased that it is written in foreign newspapers that it has resigned from taking it no longer seriously. But it is, I think, quite well, when abroad recognizes with which government party Austria is continuing. Finally, the ÖVP does not know what is going on next in the banking sector – and this has also shown the reaction of my colleague stupidly today in the pre-debate debate on the gambling law. I'm convinced: The ÖVP will stand here again, will have shot itself back into its own knee and will again make everyone else responsible for the pain when the P.S.K. sale goes to a very different address than to those you have packed out. It will not have heard what it was about again, because the ÖVP is just inviting the socialists – because they have no interest in the Enlightenment – to continue to pull them over the table, because this game is "so beautiful". High house! Today, you of the ÖVP have the opportunity to recover remnants of your independence as a party. Today, we will offer you an opportunity, as you can ensure that an investigation committee is informed in an area where you actually have a party interest and in addition to representing an Austrian state interest – since Mr. Collegue stupidly conjure up the state-bearing role of the ÖVP – a state interest by helping to clarify what is being done in the banking sector in the field of party-political mismanagement, by helping to ensure that a state-bearing party, as you like, can thus be pulled over the table at the expense of Austrian interests – as it has happened to you. In addition, they have the opportunity to ensure that Mr Randa does not give us threats of complaint to politicians – I have heard that he has already complained to the Secretary-General of the Austrian People's Party – but that Mr Randa is referred back to that place that he is in this country: that he has to act as a merchant and bank expert and does not act as an over-government in that country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Randa will be one of the main points in this Committee, which is also reflected in the request, and in particular his refusal not to even go back to the WestLB to waive the right of pre-purchasing. That's what he's doing. What's going on?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24071	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24087	I come to the conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This will probably be in the case – and this is the likely case – the rejection of our request will not be the last chapter in this trade fair – in order to remain in your department, Mr. Khol, which is associated with the keys CA and Bank Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24120	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). From now on, the maximum speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24138	Mr President. – Mr Stadler, I really do not understand why, in an embarrassing and in an almost present form, you have always believed in having to break your mind about how the coalition partners act together. I think you needed every thought work for your own party more urgently. That's what I want to say here in the first place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have been dealing with this again today and have been able to hear us here that you have tried with great volume to deceive us of inability, inaccuracy and confusion. We spent almost a whole day last week – it is not the last one, but it speaks for your "quality", Mr Stadler, that we must say once – that it was simply unfair facts, ladies and gentlemen, and on this it is based on the attempt to bring it to an end. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It won't have been the last!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What do you want to do under the carpet?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What about the wrong facts? Is there any right and incorrect?]] Mr President, I am very clear to you. Three points were: first, strategic participation. Participation in itself is... – Mr Commissioner, I do not know if you have much understanding of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I would have liked someone to get out of here who at least has basic economic knowledge. Mr Stadler! I'm sure you don't have them, but someone from your bunch will hopefully have them. That's what I wish. [[Violent, persistent calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The first accusation was participation. The second was the pre-purchasing right. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] The third point was the right of consultation. I am now trying to explain to you the following, although I believe that you will not understand [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You're overcrowding!]] [[Other fierce calls for let the liberals know.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign the other day]] It was quite simply a question of a foreign investor making an investment with an Austrian bank. It is only too clear that every investor who goes abroad is attempting to ensure that there is a certain continuity that is foreseeable there as the society in question develops. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's what a superlative thing is about!]] [[Prolonged calls.]] It is only too obvious, therefore, that a pre-purchasing right is agreed here, a temporary right to ensure that, after entry into that company, no change in company relations is made. [[Abg. Gaugg: You're already tired!]] This is a very natural process in every social change, ladies and gentlemen. - That's the one point. The second point was: Bank Austria would have sold itself abroad. That was quoted several times and was also the subject of your entire accusations. May I say what this is based on? [[Abg. Haigermoser: You may also go home!]] Mr President, I believe that this is disqualified by itself. [[Newly fierce calls to the liberals.]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You're playing the superinstructor there!]] [[Call to the Freeman:Frequent!]] Yes, it is all right, Mr. Cot. [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] There is, therefore, an agreement between the AVZ as a company transferee of company law and the WestLB that, in important points such as capital acquisition, balance-sheet gain – I quote from your presentation – the change of statutes, capital reduction, in other words, a consultation, a meeting that has no mandatory effect on the two parts. No mandatory effect! The Minister of Finance has read this for the last time here. I think it unfair if you make yourself, leave this paragraph behind and then explain to us that this is a sale abroad, which is a damage to Austrian interests. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What do you think there are lectures? You're an unwitting man!]] There is no liability, and you will have to take note of that. If you don't, you'll show what kind of mind you're using this High House here. I would like to make that quite clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is therefore no reason at all and no legal basis for these accusations at all. I would like to acknowledge that you do not work with legal bases. I'd like to admit that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Mr Partik-Pablé, I may come to you another time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, please!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] There is no legal basis at all to claim what you are doing permanently, there would have been a sale abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes, what?- Oh, my God!]] This testifies to a frightening ignorance. I'll tell you one thing: The coheretry with its own inability as a political means is certainly something you should consider very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24403	Mr Stadler, was that on the Rules of Procedure? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24452	Mr President. The previous speaker referred to my group as "hope". [[Intermediaries of ironic regret at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr President. I am sorry that this jury of a whole group has...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24494	Mr Stadler is speaking. Please let him speak!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24532	Mr President. Unfortunately, this jury has also found the initial applause of Mr Fischer, which my group particularly regrets. Mr President. I call for a call for an order for Mr Jarolim for the name of my group as "hope"!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24573	Mr Stadler: to understand the Minutes. Mr Klubobmann, Dr Kostelka, spoke on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24597	Mr President. Behind the word "hope" I can in no way recognize a verbal jury and no insult, but very probably in the accusation of prepotence, the cowardice and the lie, all the words that have fallen from this side – it is easy to see by whom – in the last minutes. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh that! Then it is – pointing towards SPÖ – a red "hope" over there!]] [[in the direction of freedom of expression]] That is why I call for an order in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24665	Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24695	Whoever sits in the glasshouse, Mr Stadler, should not throw stones!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24734	High house! As far as the alleged statements that could raise calls for orders are concerned, the minutes will only be taken into account. In the last speech by Mr Khol, I have doubts as to whether this has actually been the case in the Rules of Procedure. Mr Haselsteiner is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24793	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler! The opposition parties have become known on the matter of the committees of inquiry on a common procedure, on a common line. Your speech today does not necessarily make it easier for us to stick to this decision. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: You act there, and then you're offended! They insult everyone else again and again!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm not offended, colleague Fuhrmann! I just want to know if "hopping" is allowed or not! I just want to know! After the applause of my colleague Fischer...]] [[Strong calls at the SPÖ: Again! Now he says that again!]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] I believe, Mr Stadler, that, apart from that - perhaps later on - you do not make it very easy for us to stand up to this agreement, even the matter itself does not do a good job. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I have to talk to Mr Fuhrmann!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There's an agreement?]] If we really want a committee of inquiry – and this is what we want, both on the banking and on the banking issue, and I say this from a liberal point of view, especially on the Kurds – then we will have to convey to all the members of this House who are supposed to give their votes the feeling that we are not going to abuse this committee of inquiry and do not want to abuse it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have observed the committees of inquiry in the past understand that there are democratic concerns about calling up a committee of inquiry which could be made a tribunal that serves as a popular attraction to a jealous mass. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a treasonous speech!]] These are concerns, Mr Stadler, which we as opposition parties want to take seriously. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Cry back to SPÖ!]] No, Mr Stadler, I don't "cricket" back, I only allow myself to point out and ask you: As your ally on this issue, do not make it harder for me than it is necessary to stay with the rod! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's hopeless!]] I'll tell you that and ask for it! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's blamble!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in particular the Group of the European Free Alliance: This has nothing to do with the fact that, of course, the Causa CA – Bank Austria is still worth an investigation. I think that far beyond that, a committee of inquiry would probably resolve some kind of abuse from the past today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is embarrassing!]] I really don't see the focus so much where you see him. But I would be very interested, for example, in Mr Jud's role. For me, this is a subject of which one can say: That is something you must examine. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Colleague, what the chancellor has done!]] To this syndicate, I really must say: Those who deal with these questions know how a syndicate looks. And what else should be in the contract than something like this or something like that? These are daily transactions for entrepreneurs or for shareholders of large companies, and I do not consider this Committee of Inquiry to be so important. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You permanently notice that this has no effect at all!]] But in the role of Mr Jud, in the role of years of privatisation, in the role of policy in preventing one and supporting the other solution, I see a need for clarification. That is why we also want to see such a committee of inquiry. But of course we also want him on the basis of a fair discussion and not as a pure polemic. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, I believe that the committee of inquiry alone will not benefit you at all. You will not get this issue Bank Austria – credit institution from the agenda for so long as you cannot take the only meaningful step, and that is a revision of the Sparkassengesetz. You know that in the meantime! Whatever the board of directors of this large bank does, whatever decisions he will make: It will always be a political one. And that will crush you over the months and years. Believe me, you won't stand it! The only thing that would save you or what would help you – and not only as a coalition, but also the country and the economy – would be the only thing that would strengthen confidence in our bank and financial place would be a consequence of the innovation of the Savings Act. It is one thing today, in 1997, to make hundreds of billions of schillings of assets out of ownership and this wealth and the power of disposal over this assets to the random principle or even the targeted, partly... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's not a coincidence principle!]] Mr. Novotny, you know that. I don't understand, you know how it goes, you're a failed, trained, excellent expert on the scene. You know that there is a political...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25022	Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25040	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! That's the cancer ulcer! Make sure that politics leaves its hands out of the banking business! Then you'll take a step further.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25070	Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25091	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If we had not already known that this matter was not suitable for an investigation committee – after your speech, Mr Stadler, we knew it!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25127	There is now a report by Mr Ing. Nut trees. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25154	Mr President. High house! Mr Khol, I think your brief speech was not very suitable to promote democracy in this House. [[Abg. Eder: Very suitable!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was the economic competence of the ÖVP!]] You know, Mr. Hazelsteiner: Teachings on the form in which a request is to be made are not the subject of this debate, but I agree with you with regard to the Savings Act. [[Continued calls in which the word "Kästle" falls over and over again.]] Mr Jarolim! They have not brought light into the darkness of this affair! Their permanent refusals to set up a committee of inquiry simply allow the public to conclude that they want to keep a little secret. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact is: The information has not been passed on or is incorrectly passed on by the responsible parties. The fact is that the acting persons, such as the Federal Chancellor and former Minister of Finance, only apparently did not know what was going on around them. The fact is that the sale of shares has served to create a new power-policy centre, and the fact is that experts like Professor Tichy have considered the sale to be a superprivatization. The fact is also that the sale of federal shares in the CA has not led to a widespread reorientation of the credit economy and, in particular, has not led to a reduction of the party's political influence on banks' strategic and humane decisions while respecting national interests. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even if you have shown yourself from the ÖVP whether the transactions around the CA sale: Finally, you do not want to give up the possibility in the darkest circle of the raiffeisen sector either. The only difference between the ÖVP and the SPÖ in the attempt to preserve power is that the SPÖ – admittedly – acts less and faster and that you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are lagging behind. If you see this differently, you will agree to the setting up of an investigation committee. You can't lose anything. But also to the representatives of the SPÖ: Do you really leave the suspicion that Dr Praschak has written in his legacy politically unanswered that there is a system of imbalances in the control bank, for example, that due to the given ownership structure, the Oesterreichische Control Bank is equipped with a monopoly and is certainly not in conformity with the EU? [[Abg. Grabner: Let's talk about Kästle!]] [[Abg. Grabner: You could also talk about Kästle a lot!]] Or that the "checks and balances" are not given in this Austrian export promotion system, as Dr Praschak said? Or that there is no overview of the level of undue claims and nothing has been done to prevent liability commitments under AFG, despite negative project and country analyses, i.e. negative risk assessment, from being granted by political influence? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The light is burning!]] The Minister of Finance is no longer here, but he himself has found in his reply to my question in the main committee that at 31. December 1996 Re-indebtedness guarantees amounting to 103,545 billion schilling; Re-indebtedness guarantees resulting from transactions largely arising from politically motivated employment of the state enterprises at the time. [[Abg. Mr Fekter: Mr President! The light has been shining for three minutes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: It doesn't light him up!]] Apart from whether or not the control bank is in accordance with EU law in its structure: They have to put export financing on new feet, because the current system is not suitable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! If you have nothing to hide, you agree with this committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25298	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25313	Then resist the allegations that the politically managed control bank has carried out unfairly, has carried out indirect party financing, has carried out careless and politically manipulated lending and debt collection! [[Abg. Eder: A sentence!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A sentence!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: speaking time, Mr President!]] And then you, ladies and gentlemen, dissuade our accusation...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25369	Please put the final sentence to a close!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25385	... that all of this was carried out under political pressure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25415	The statements made pursuant to Article 57a of the Rules of Procedure are consumed and the debate is closed. We are entering the voting procedure. It is according to § 66 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure a request from 20 Members for a secret vote. Under this Rules of Procedure, this request shall be put to the vote. I shall therefore vote on the request for a secret vote. If you would like to join this request, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is done by the minority. The request for a secret vote has not been accepted. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't even want to make a secret vote because you don't trust your own people!]] I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to agree to the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry to give an appropriate sign. – This is also done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25458	We are now entering the negotiations on the request of Mr Anschober and Comrades to set up an investigation committee on the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free exit of the perpetrators concerning the murder of the then chairman of the DPK-I Dr. Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou and his two confidants; in particular, whether and what instructions have been given in view of the threats of Iran to disclose "the documents on the illegal Austrian arms supplies in the first Gulf War" as claimed by the former President of Iran Bani-Sadr. This request has now been distributed to all Members. There is no need for the reading by the writer. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25515	We are going into the debate. I refer to the limit on speaking time as before. First message: Mr Anschober. 10 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25551	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. ==References== We come to a very important issue today's plenary debate. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] How was the call? Mr Cap, that's what you're talking about? That's surprising. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Mr. Colleague! Haven't you prepared a speech? Do you need a keyword?]] [[Call the SPÖ:Now he repeats that from the Bani Sadr!]] 6th request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. And although the majority in this House – I notice this in many, many conversations with ÖVP delegates and with SPÖ delegates – is for the establishment of an investigation committee... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Talk about the denunciant mushroom!]] I can call you, Mrs Fekter, a number of members of the ÖVP, who, if they do not have the influence of how they are quoted in their own ranks, stand "all-fair" Klubobmanns Khol, but could be motivated to a certain attitude on the question of investigation committee. [[Live calls at SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Call it!]] I can also call you a number of ladies and gentlemen, who are not secret, who are also public, from the SPÖ Group, who, if they could vote freely, would vote in favour of these committee of inquiry. There has long been a majority in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Ah, you believe that!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: loss of reality!]] The question is: When will it be possible for ÖVP and SPÖ Members to vote on this question, which they want to vote, to vote on what they want to vote? And that also sheds a significant light on the political culture in this House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What time is it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Your strategy is very, very simple and very transparent. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't be so incredibly obedient!]] You think you can sit this issue over the summer, Mr Ex-Innenminister, and then grass has grown on this matter, then this matter has been forgotten. I tell you, Mr Ex-Innenminister: This calculation – to you and your instructions, Mr Ex-Innenminister – will certainly not go down this calculation, whether you now grant the minimum standard of democracy policy, namely that the committee of inquiry, as in Germany, will become a minority right in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Not even your own people get you to do it!]] [[Abg. Dr Fekter: The Van der Bellen doesn't agree either!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Wabl will not agree, the Van der Bellen will not agree, the Langthaler will not agree!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: The Wabl won't agree!]] Mr Schwimmer, you can't overtone the arguments with your brewery, you won't succeed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the latest in autumn, this committee of inquiry will be held, Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol! The hard line will not help, too, Mr Klubobmann Khol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schwimmer.]] Mr. Schwimmer! Don't you want to come to the pult and give your valuable ezzes away? In the meantime, we will, together with a critical public in this country... [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Where's Mr. Wabl? Where's Mrs. Langthaler?]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: With you, half of the Members are missing for approval!]] Yes, yes, Mr. Arbitrator! In the meantime, we will address the many, many open questions, including the question of your political instructions, Mr. Ex-Innenminister Lösnak! These many open questions can only be resolved in a committee of inquiry. What are the open questions? For example – and with that I stay with you now, Mr. Ex-Innenminister Lösnak! – this is the question of the instructions of the ex-internal minister Löschnak. It is about three concrete instructions! Mr Ex-Innenminister Lösnak, you could go out here and explain here how these three political directions looked! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Half of your Members went out!]] First: Why did you give an illegal instruction to be suspended, even though you knew it was illegal? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Why didn't you... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Löschnak.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You'll be nervous, I understand. There are interesting file notes. Why didn't you hang a 48-hour holding in the Causa Bosorgian? That would have been quite easy! It would have been impossible for a murderer to flee if you had given this instruction! Secondly, What about the instruction on the first night, Mr. Ex-Innenminister Lösnak? I believe that, after an intervention by a Vienna top politician, not the EBT, which already found on the night of the murder, the three Iranians are likely to be the perpetrators, but the state police in Vienna must carry out the investigations. There are two comments on this matter, Mr Dexnak and Mr Lexnak. Tell us: Who has made this intervention with what interests? Thirdly, Who, then, gave the instruction on reducing the staff of the embassy, after which Bosorgian was able to flee, and what was the foreclosure of this direction? Fourth: Mr. Ex-Innenminister Lösnak! Do you know what officials, leading officials at the Ministry of the Interior are most wondering about? – On the fact that there are only very few files in the Kurden-Causa in the Ministry of the Interior. Why are there only two file convoluts? [[Abg. Gaál: You have no idea!]] Each of the officials in the Ministry of the Interior tells us that only two things can happen: Either the former head of the department has written quite consciously and specifically no record notes, or the decisive notes have at some point disappeared. – This is the information from the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Ex-Innenminister Lösnak! You will have to explain this, and you will have to explain it in a committee of inquiry. I guarantee you. The fifth point that will have to do with the interior is the question: How did a former head of the State Police get him to intervene directly with the judicial system in order to withdraw arrest warrants? Did he act on his own, Mr. Ex-Innenminister Löschnak? Was he completely free of any influences and pressure? Was he completely free of any influence on the part of the Ministry of the Interior and on the part of the Justice and External Affairs? – I am quite sure that was not the case. [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: You have no idea!]] The second issue concerns 5. December. – You yourself once said in an interesting conversation at the Ministry of the Interior that you were "surprising" about the attitude of the foreign resort and the policy of the head-in-the-sand stick in this causa. ==References== December was the day of the current Federal President: The procedure of Kletil on this issue on this day is in need of clarification, not only for several political groups in this House, but also for the entire critical public in this country and beyond. What happened to this 5. December? – First of all, there was an intervention by the Iranian ambassador who was contested by the current President of the Federal Republic. There was then a telephone call Kletil – Löschnak, and there was the warning on withdrawal of the guard staff of the message. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There is now the question, Mr Ex-Innenminister Lösnak: Why, with what concrete pressure and with what arguments, did this relief aid and the possibility of escape come into play in this context? The case of the Kurden murder in Vienna is not an individual case, you know. Under your predecessor, Blecha, in May 1987, came to the case of Citgar, to murder an Iranian oppositionist. In this case too, there were no investigations by the executive authorities and by the judicial authorities. And now a very interesting fact: Already in mid-August 1989, only three weeks after the murder of Ghassemlou and his colleagues, a dossier was sent to the Federal Chancellor's Office in which he decreed and detailed information about the organization of Iranian terror in Vienna for the whole of Europe and about the perpetrators of the Kurden murders. Mr. Ex-Innenminister! You should know this file! Do you know what the reaction to it was? - Schublading! There have been no investigations and investigations in this causa, and there has been no discovery of whether this information is correct. We now know, according to today's state of knowledge, that this information was correct, concerning all three perpetrators in the case of the murder of Ghassemlous. There are a lot of questions in this context. The Ghassemlou case is not an individual case either. There was a series of attacks throughout Europe between 1980 and 1992, a total of 34 murders of Iranian opposition politicians.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25851	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25866	We will remind you again and again in the coming weeks and months – and even at such a later hour – that you cannot afford to maintain this wall of silence in the face of three political murders and the serious suspicion that a state-organized escape aid has taken place here!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25895	Mr Dr. Ofner has now been reported on the floor. From now on, the maximum speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25917	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Jarolim, in the main book: Mr President, the tone you have brought in has not really been used here in the House. [[Live calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] A group of delegates, including 42 men and women, who have 1 million voters, is not a "hope" – neither for you nor for anyone else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am far from calling the Group of the Socialists 'Hops', but I would like to know what you are doing and how you would rightly be upset if I called you 'Hops'! [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: What about your calls?]] It is simply not, and I strongly advise you not to do so in the future. If you come out of your back row, then you should stick to the tone that is common in a parliament! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: What about your calls?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This is always true, even if you take into account that you may feel as a defender of duty, perhaps even as a procedural helper in the banking business! [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Think about your calls!]] - Willi, what are you talking about, please? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Come out! Say something to Stadler! I am here, too, and I say something about the immense formulation that a member of the SPÖ – and, on the other hand, a professional colleague of yours and of me – has used against a group that has 1 million voters. It doesn't belong! That's not how you are – and not even in a parliament! And if you don't like something about another, come out and say it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann.]] I take it to myself to criticize everyone who has just put the nose in here and is already going to the speaker's mouth and becomes a failure! I'm against it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And now to the request itself. High house! I do not know whether there is a real public interest in clarity about the circumstances under which three Kurds were killed at the time. I believe it, honestly, rather not! I hear from the populace that people take the position: As long as they beat each other's heads, but leave us alone, we must be right; none of our own police officers must believe in it! – Listen to the people on the street, then you will see this similarly. I have the impression that those who believe that all in the Republic of Austria are only interested in learning and clarifying what has really happened have taken a very strong stand against the opinion of the population. I also do not know whether at that time really took place the great conspiracy on which green and yellow have sworn. I don't think so either. I think that rather a little bit of "finding Kottan" has taken place, "finding Kottan" as we know this series from television, where we appreciate the a little lovable and a little smiled Austrian characteristics. I'm not sure on both points. I doubt, however, that really awake public interest, and I also doubt whether there was the conspiracy that was painted on the wall, but something I know for sure: If, as far as one piece of political crime history is concerned, all three opposition parties in this House who make up almost one third of the Members are in a lasting agreement that they want to see the sharpest instrument of political, i.e. parliamentary Enlightenment implemented, then it is a necessity for the parliamentary court to ensure that it is not permanently contradicted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] If, in a parliamentary democracy, the whole opposition of three parties agrees that it wants to be informed by a parliamentary instrument, then the House is well advised to comply with this wish.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26042	The next speech is by Mr Moser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26063	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it makes sense to speak here and make a few comments on the Green Group's request. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to say that I am somewhat surprised that no one can speak about this at all on the part of the government parties. I hope that at least someone else will talk about the Socialist Group. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Then there's a word message coming now! I believe that, according to the accusations and allegations made by Mr Anschober to Mr Ex-Innenminister Lösnak, it is certainly appropriate and necessary to comment here as well. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You accuse us of undemocratic behaviour if we do not visit the committees to announce our protest against your constant rejection of a necessary committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But the travel fees for participating in the committees were requested!]] You refuse the discussion here on your part. – I believe that this is a lack of democratic understanding on your part, ladies and gentlemen. I do not find it really easy today – and I say that quite honestly – to speak, especially in connection with two events of recent times. On the one hand, Mr Anschober, in his speech, did not present in principle any really understandable arguments that could actually justify a genuine political responsibility. I have problems with this, given the fact that Mr Anschober is already starting to hit the line of his club colleague Pilz when he speaks of "nationally organized escape aid". [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The newspaper says: Denunciant!]] Mr Anschober. I think you've gone a little too far with the assessment of the situation and the situation you've announced here today! We simply have to reject Mr Pilz's behaviour in America. Because today, if you have looked at the report in the "ZiB 2" or if you have read today's "Press"... [[Abg. Son of a bitch: Aha, you've seen TV! We were here in plenary!]] I was there in the meeting room, but I have been told, Mr President. But if we read in today's newspapers that Mr Pilz's country in America is violently attacking our country, that the chairman of the committee is at the end of the Austrian government as compliments of murderers – and there are still a few questions to be answered – then I must say, ladies and gentlemen: That's really too far! That's, you know, a cleanery! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Live calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] I believe that such statements must be rejected. You really do provide a bear service, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, regarding the setting up of a committee of inquiry. The reason why I have spoken is the fact that I am convinced that the need to set up such a committee of inquiry actually exists. Ladies and gentlemen! You now have, as I hope, all the report that the Federal Government has presented to Parliament. You know the reports of the three ministries. – These reports are incomplete! These reports leave more questions open than they answer questions. In particular, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have remained guilty of very decisive answers to Parliament. I therefore believe that you do nothing good for the government parties as a whole if you continue to reject the setting up of a committee of inquiry - and I suspect this will be the case today! Ladies and gentlemen! If you really want the right to break through, if you really want it to be realized, what your former Minister of the Interior, Mr Lösnak, has said, namely, that in a rule of law, the law must be consistently pursued, whatever negative results come true, please agree to the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: So the fungus gets right? – Never!]] Because we want light to come into the dark here! We want political responsibilities to be presented and clarified. Above all, Mrs Fekter, it is about really questioning and putting facts on the table what happened in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Please read the interviews carried out in 1989 by the current Federal President Klestil, the then...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26156	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26171	Read the interviews made with Klestyl! Then you know that Parliament has not been fully informed. But we want this Parliament to be fully informed: in the interests of Austrian parliamentarism and in the interests of this country. That is why we ask you to give your consent to this request for the setting up of an investigative committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26201	Mr Löschnak, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26223	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In spite of the advanced hour, I think it is necessary to say a few words on Mr Anschober's comments. For what he has made or has done over the past weeks and months is truly indescribable. For example, he has accused the Ministry of the Interior of the Interior of his opinion that there are far too few files and file notes. Then he assumes, since there is apparently too little evidence that they can only be made aside or not made in order to cover up or conceal something. I have to repeat the question I asked you the last time: What right do you have here if you – Mr Pilz and you – sit down on a bank with someone like that Bani Sadr who killed or at least knew about thousands of people?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] What is the right to do Now you get out of here and make demands?- Oh, my God! [[Prolonged applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Second point, Mr Anschober: What right do you have in this Austrian Parliament to speak and ask for a committee of inquiry, now that Mr Pilz has been in America since he and here in Austria apparently no longer has a chance to present his ideas and concerns successfully, because they are no longer believed in him, not by the population for a long time, but apparently not by some of the press?- Oh, my God! Now he goes abroad and constantly shakes Austria in a way that is unbearable! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is how the SPÖ used to do it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One last observation, since we are now apparently at the minute of the sensibilities: If you are excited, Mr. Klubobmann Stadler, that someone calls your group "hope"... [[Abg. May. Stadler: I just want this to be clarified! I don't get upset at all!]] Listen to me! I really agree with you that you are rightly upset about this, but then I have to ask why two political groups do not get upset when someone like Mr Anschober says that these two groups have been "nationally organized refugees". [[Abg. May. Stadler: I don't get upset at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Listen to me!]] Mr Anschober. It is an unscrupulous blaze that you have given of yourself, and I reject it with all your determination on behalf of both political groups. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] It's not meant to be evil. But I have to tell you: I understand colleagues Pilz: He's running around his political body. But the fact that you are also walking around the Leiberl allows only the conclusion that you have already given up the hope in Upper Austria, Mr Anschober. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's a deep level! It's down!]] That's not down, and that's not deep. I haven't been on a level with you for a long time, I have to tell you! [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If, therefore, you want to contribute to your personal salvation and to the rescue of your group, you can come out here with real facts. Then you can talk about it. But that you are always acting with accusations, generalizations and evasions, we simply can't let that happen!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26355	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26380	Mr President. I am always very happy when the "fan club" of the ÖVP wakes up when I go to the speaker's desk. Nothing can be more beautiful than if there are already calls when you go through the rows towards the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You're overestimating yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen. Today, of course, we can still hold a debate on politics and morality, Mr Löschnak. I don't mind! If you here – certainly partly rightly – call Bani-Sadr's names in connection with the murders in Iran and his role as head of state, then I can resist two things. On the one hand: He obviously revised his opinion, but too late, as you can see. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: He left decent people hanging up!]] On the other hand, I would like to say before you get upset: Who did business with Iran? What government? What government has fostered friendly relations with Iran? What government has the responsibility of not having any other country in the Asian region in this time frame – and to this day – so many foreign policy visits and external contacts? [[A major contradiction with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: That must not be true!]] Who is responsible for strengthening external relations with Iran and increasing the external trade balance to Iran after these murders? [[Continued violent calls to SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is immense!]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] Who is responsible for this? Which federal government? – The Federal Government, Mr Exminister Lösnak, who also heard you! There has always been a foreign policy, and it has always been stated that it is a moral foreign policy! It was a pseudomoral foreign policy that spread the dimensions unevenly and that obviously did business with this regime! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: That's outrageous!]] Your outrage is totally unbelievable! [[Further violent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let me do two more things! – You can yell quietly, this is my speaking time, and I have the microphone, it doesn’t help you anyway, I can only say there! [[Continued violent calls to SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] It would be better for you to listen and not shout like that, because that saves you nerves around this time of day! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Bani-Sadr has killed more people than you have voters!]] [[Abg. Stop! Stop it!]] That would suit you if we stopped now!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26539	I note that Mrs Kammerlander has only one remaining speaking time of just over 2 minutes. I ask you to respect this!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26554	On all the accusations, Mr Löschnak, which are in the room: The words "Parliament has been lied" have not we created, but the newspapers have written it after they have followed the debate and after they have studied the files as much as we do. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Where's the morale?]] There's only one thing that helps: If you want to take yourself seriously as a Member of Parliament and of the highest representatives in this country, you will set up a committee of inquiry to determine whether we have been told or not by members of the former Federal Government and even today's representatives! [[Calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I don't understand your excitement! The only thing that can help to reveal this would really only be a committee of inquiry! The newspapers, including the well-intentioned newspapers such as the "Small Newspaper", have written quite correctly under the title "The Ferdinands" that this government has succeeded in establishing a piece of art in and for itself a different opposition in one case, namely, in the need to set up an investigation committee. You've succeeded in this piece of art! You have certainly noticed today – and you can remember that too! – that this opposition does not agree on all issues, including the Committees of Inquiry. But we are of the opinion that there should be a committee of inquiry in this matter. And to yours I would just like to say: Take a positive look at it! I would like to have a lot of votes, then we could have a committee of inquiry under the circumstances of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26590	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26605	I think that if you always divert from the subject, you will only provide the government parties with a bear service!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26644	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We are entering the voting procedure. I'm asking you to take that place. We shall now proceed to the vote, and we shall vote on the request by Mr Anschober and Mr Comrade to set up an investigation committee. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is only done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-06-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26689	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in applications 475/A to 488/A. Question No 2569/J to 2584/J has also been received. For the use of the word "hope" in the direction of the Freedom Party, I give Mr Jarolim a call for order. Because of the use of the words "red pile" or "black piles", I give Mr Stadler a call for order. I call the next meeting of the National Council for tomorrow, Thursday, 12. June 1997, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. The sitting is closed.
