ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e1733	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 98. Meeting of the National Council. I declare that against the official protocol of the 96. Meeting of 11. No objections were raised in November 1997. On today's day of sitting as prevented, Members of Parliament are reported to be Nuremberger, Schieder, Vergestnich, Mag. Frieser, Ing. Maderthaner, Murauer, Tichy-Schreder, Mag. Firlinger and Dr. Hazelsteiner. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e1767	With regard to the obtained negotiating items and their allocation, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e1893	Mr Gaugg and Mr Comrades requested that the written question 3309/J by Mr Gaugg and Mr Comrades to the Federal Chancellor on fair pensions be dealt with for all before the entry into the agenda. Under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e1917	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that Mr Wabl has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on motion 548/A (E) on the failure of confidence to the Minister of State for Defence be limited to 9. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member There is also a desire to hold a short debate on this request for deadlines. As the debate on the request for time-limitation has just been announced for today's sitting, the brief debate on the request for urgent procedure will take place after the urgent request has been made. The vote on the motion for a deadline will therefore be taken immediately following the debate. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (841 and 841 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for 1998, including investments (910 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e1945	We are now entering the agenda, the subject of which is the Federal Finance Act for the year 1998, including investments. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e1968	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the discussions. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. Should the speaking time of the competent member of the government exceed 20 minutes, this would be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. The House has to deal with this proposal. I therefore ask: Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That's what it's supposed to be. Advisory Group X Chapter 14: Science and research (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 65: Transport and the public sector (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2011	We arrive at the negotiation of the Advisory Group X: Science and transport. There is no need for reporting. Mr Krüger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2039	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Not even the most bold optimist will argue that the universities in Austria are in a veritable crisis: hearing rooms filled to the hardest, too few places to exercise, too few professors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother.]] Mrs Colleague of the Liberal Forum! Since you are disputed, I have to tell you: I understand that you do not believe me – you have a different ideological view – but at least believe what the president of the rector conference Professor Peter Skalicky says. [[Abg. Son of a bitch: He's a lobbyist!]] He says: If the exercise lists are hung out on us at the "architecture", then people will be trampling at each other! – Dear Mrs. Mother! If You don't believe me, then at least you believe in the person who has to do with the miser at the Austrian universities every day. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no need to wonder about this situation, for what remains of more than 25 years of socialist education policy at universities? – Since 1970, the number of students has increased fourfold. Over the same period, the budget appropriations increased by a total of 60 percent. On the one hand, therefore, 400 percent more students, on the other hand, only 60 percent more budget resources. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not true! That's wrong!]] In other words, the number of students has increased seven times as much as the budget available for it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is the result of more than 25 years of social-democratic education policy at universities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Once again, I quote the president of the Skalicky Rectors' Conference. He says that he generally proposes to the Ministry – that is, to you, Mr. Minister – to pursue a confusion tactic in budgetary policy. This is the opinion of the one who has to do with the problems at the universities every day and who has also had the honour of getting to know your negotiating style, Mr Federal Minister, and your attitude to the universities in many different ways. We from the Free Opposition Party say the following: Mr. Federal Minister! The status at the Austrian universities is a truly profoundly more complainable one. Federal Minister! You actually don't deserve the term "scientific ministers" – that's not personal appreciation; I won't do it; it's not a personal attack – that's in your function. They are rather a bankruptcy manager for Austrian universities than an education minister at university level. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: I thought the lawyers were bankruptcy administrators!]] It naturally raises the question: Federal Minister! What do you think? What reform proposals do you make? The readers of the Austrian daily newspapers have been confronted with a "gloriosen" idea by you in late summer. What idea was that? – The idea that you, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, have been outraged by you, obviously on lukewarm summer evenings, is that you want to outsource from universities and transfer to the colleges the most important core studies, namely core studies, which have been of the core studies of universities since Greek and Roman times. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not how it's done! For the opposition, the question is: How can one get to the idea of, for example, subtracting the study of law from the universities in order to transfer it to the colleges? Recently, when a Hungarian delegation held a discussion with me on science and cooperation in the field of science, I was told – completely independent of the discussion that is taking place in Austria – that: In Hungary, this is different now than in the communist era at the time. In the communist era, it was true that research on the one hand and science and teaching on the other were separated, that more was transferred to the courses. Mr. Federal Minister! So you have an idea that has already been applied with very little success, east of Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Total school on university ground!]] I do not assume that this is your ideological model, but it is nevertheless the suspicion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A second consideration could be – Mr Minister, you can explain yourself here today; I suppose that you will not hide on this very serious question – that They seek a way out of the miser of the discussion of socialist education policy within the party. What's this miser? – On the one hand, there is Mr Niederweiser, who is speaking science and education, who demands that study fees be introduced at the universities, and on the other hand, there is your well-known position, and you are against it. There is also a kind of mediating statement by a prominent social democrat, that is, no less than your Federal Managing Director Rudas says – and I wish to expressly agree to this – that study fees can only be discussed then – and that is to be fully agreed – if the universities are set up in such a way that they are real service facilities and if they allow students to complete the studies at an acceptable time. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What does the Haider say about this?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As always, the speaking time for the budget debates is limited. At the end of my contribution to the debate, I can only make a few comments on the occupation policy at Austrian universities and universities, in particular the Academy of Fine Arts. To this end, it should be noted: They are great Austrian artists who have been working responsibly as professors at the Academy of Fine Arts for many years. It's that, you know that, Professor Brauer, Lehmden, Mikl, Hundertwaser and Hollegha. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is also clearly the ideological orientation that the Ministry of Science and the SPÖ comply with: Their art understanding, Mr. Federal Minister, and obviously also that of SPÖ is similar to that of Joseph Beuys, namely: Everything is art! Everyone's an artist! And that seems to be the reason why you say: For what do we need painting in visual art, why is the tradition of a Albert Paris Gütersloh, a Herbert Böckl, a hundred water and a professor Lehmden interested?- Oh, my God! We don't care, we break with this tradition, because we don't want to train the art students to become artists at all – you say: Everyone's an artist! – and therefore we do not need such training facilities at all! I would not like to argue that Mr Schmalix, one of the new guest professors, who are now only appointed for a year, is a great artist; also Peter Kogler, who has only now set a mark of Austrian art at the "documenta" with his space installation. That's not a question at all. But I can't go here, let all professors of painting emeritus in peace, put the painting ad acta and devote me only to video and media art. That's not how it is, Minister of State! In this context too, you owe us an answer.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2170	Mr deputies, Dr. Lukasch, spoke to the House for an actual correction. I would ask that the facts to be corrected be compared to the actual facts. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2195	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dr. Krüger has just said in his remarks that the number of listeners at the Austrian universities had quadrupled since 1970, but the university budget increased by only 60 percent over the same period. I'm actually correcting him: The university budget has risen from 2.3 billion to 27 billion since 1970. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He can't even count! Go to elementary school, Krüger!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He only has a decimal error inside!]] The number of staff has also doubled during this period, with an increase of 10 to 12 percent, in particular between 1990 and 1994. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2244	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2273	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the interests of Mr Krüger, I hope that he will show better mathematical knowledge in his accounts with the clients than here at the Pult! – For whom it would be bad, I don't know exactly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He always calculates the date for that!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] In the present budget, we have 27.8 billion schilling; this is an increase - I hope you have also reckoned so - compared to last year by more than 2 billion schilling, or it is an increase of 7.75 percent compared to 1997. With the research expenses, we have an increase of almost 6 per cent, at the university budget approximately 5.6 per cent, with the budget of the art universities – mentioned by you – 7 per cent, and at the technical universities, we logically have a plus of almost 50 per cent. This clearly shows that we attach an above-average importance to the science budget and that the issues of science and research in this budget are given the highest priority, despite the still existing savings rate. This also shows that the budget is a suitable instrument for implementing one of the objectives of the Labour Convention, namely: Education, science and research are essential foundations for social, cultural and economic development and therefore have priority. It is therefore a sufficient but certainly not an adequate budget; there is no question that there are still additional requests for various points. Since Mr Krüger has not missed an opportunity to highlight the negative aspects – even the other speakers of the opposition parties who are still speaking will probably do so – let me say a few of the positive aspects, which are undoubtedly also present, but which obviously escapes you. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Have you found some?]] – I have found a lot, but unfortunately I don’t have so much time to explain to you all. I needed at least one hour to be able to tell all that is positive in our universities and in our research institutes. It would be good if You'd look at that, too, my colleague. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A few examples – really arbitrary –: The Institute of Economics of the University of Vienna is second behind the University of Basel in a ranking of 72 economic disciplines in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. But not only this institute is so far ahead, because thirdly it is that of the Technical University of Vienna and sixthly that of the University of Linz. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It is undisputed that we have very good institutes, but we want to preserve them for the future!]] The research productivity and the research output of these institutes were measured. These are achievements of the Austrian universities to be recognized! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Or: Take the plans that now exist in the United States regarding the networking of schools and universities with the data highway. The Austrian ACONET system of the Austrian universities is something that has been around for years and it works excellently. Or: Look For example, this book, published by the APA journalists, "Success by Research", or this book by Michael Freund about "GeistesBlitze", a current inventory of the Austrian research landscape. [[the speaker shows the corresponding book]] They will see that there is a great deal of value being done. This should also be noted by those critics who can never leave a good hair at the Austrian inno-vation power. Or think of the energy saving projects taking place at the universities – whether by private companies or by the energy recovery agency. Continue with the construction of student homes, ladies and gentlemen, also from the point of view of affordable living. The government plan has – Mr Krüger, perhaps help This is where I am calculating – from 1990 to 2000, i.e. within ten years, 7 000 additional homes are planned. Up to now we have built 6 000 of them, and at present 1 700 are in realization. We thus go beyond 100 percent of the achievement of this objective, and that was even earlier than planned. These are really achievements to be recognized! However, I would also like to take the opportunity to mention a very negative aspect here, namely the fact that in this Parliament we have adopted a university study law – after the negotiations to which the university representatives, ÖH, Mittelbau, Professors, were invited – which provides for three examination dates – Mr Luke, you remember that after long discussions we have introduced and also decided on this amendment here, and that we are now constantly hearing that this is not being observed by various universities. [[Abg. Dr. Brauneder:... can be!]] Ladies and gentlemen. I must say that the National Council cannot be allowed to pass a law and is then simply said at some universities or at some institutes: We don't care! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would ask the Federal Minister to pay very strict attention to the implementation of this regulation. Just a few of our next tasks. Mr Krüger! The study fees are not an urgent task that we have written into any programme. You know, there are different views in this area, you can also approach it differently from science. But I think the crucial point is: In addition, in the They are likely to have different views on different topics, only: They can also be said openly with us. That's the big difference to your party! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I don't forbid you either, but then you tell me!]] You can read that all the time. This is not an up-to-date issue of our scientific policy, and it will not at all be necessary for anyone to worry about it during this legislative period. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: An "unbelievable" interest in research has your party!]] A second point of the forthcoming tasks is the development of higher education, which will be dealt with in detail by Mr Gaßner. But, Mr Krüger, on your statement that the development of professional universities is an East Block model, I must say: I mean, you have no idea what is common in the university landscape! I can't say that differently. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It is internationally common – whether in the United States, France, Italy or Germany; look at what you want – that about a third to 40 percent of the tertiary sector is in professional colleges and about 60 to 70 percent of universities. And we want to achieve this goal with the high school extension. Have a little imagination! Could you imagine that there will be a degree course called insurance law? Would it be possible for you to ask for such a thing, or is that not possible? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's no question at all! As postgraduates!]] – A bit more creativity in the discussion about university development would certainly do us all well. As far as the research sector is concerned, some Members of my group will comment in detail, and I would just like to point out that we have made very substantial additions in the field of research, that some of them are not yet included in the budget, because they are still included in the privatization legislation. A clear statement of the future of research policy: All that we are planning here will not be able to say goodbye to the policy of research policy – that is why it means that – and this Parliament will also be involved in the reflections on how to shape research policy in the future in Austria. I say at least to my group: Parliament will have to reserve a certain amount of cooperation in this area. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Thank you!]] It is important that we vote in favour of the principles of research policy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] "The future of the universities is also the future of the modern world" – this was written by the Constanzer Philosopher Jürgen Mittelstraß some time ago. Let us be careful about this future, it is our future. In any case, this budget offers good conditions for our universities in 1998.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2466	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2487	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to talk about the famous "technology billions" that researchers have expected to see a true pile of schillings poured out over their heads so that they can finally do what they have been waiting for for for for a very long time, namely, research at a level that will enable international comparability to happen again. However, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government has so far remained entirely guilty. Federal Minister! You said in committee that 465 million schillings are the part you can divide from the technology billions. You've also broken down what you've been distributing, and there's been about 200 million schilling left. I ask you: Why are around 40 percent of your area still not allocated in November? This question has nothing to do with spending the whole money as quickly as possible and not doing business. Mr Niederwieser, if I may address you briefly. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser speaks to Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] - No, I'll talk to you later when you have time. I do not understand why 40 per cent of the funds are held back until the end of the year, but this is not done in a properly managed operation. That can't be right! The assignment must be done before, so that the rulers, who are researching, have the opportunity to create a program, and do not have to wait – so to speak until Christmas – for one to purchase one more device. I think that's the wrong procedure! But perhaps the procedure is wrong even if you do not accept the Ruster Paper, which was presented to you, but rather argue with the Minister of Economic Affairs about the competences, who is allowed to send to which body and who controls which body. As you deny, Minister of State, that there are difficulties in this regard, I ask you: Why does it take so long for you to finally agree? If everything is clear anyway, then you should have had to go to Rust, within two months, in the government of Konsens – but that is not the case until now! We have an R & D share in GDP of 1.50, which is admittedly slightly higher than before, because the private sector has started. The public sector, ladies and gentlemen, is retreating. He should withdraw theoretically, but only when we have reached the OECD Latte. OECD's research and development share is 2.14 percent, in Germany – a country with which we cooperate very much – is 2.33 percent. I compare: 1.50 percent to 2.33 percent. What we're doing here is not enough. If we want to create sustainable jobs, we must make every effort to create these jobs also in the field of research in Austria! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In the 1997 research report, which I am now dealing with, the Science and Research Council speaks in the preface of "dramatic breakdowns" or of the fact that current budgetary policy is the result of a "fatal misevaluation". A fatal misevaluation! This assessment does not come from me, but from the Council of Science and Research. Believe me, it's not just liberals sitting there, but the posts are "beautifully" distributed. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, in the light of this assessment, we should finally take the situation in the field of research seriously. Federal Minister! Please get together and pour out the 40 percent that are left! Mr Niederwieser, who is listening to me now, said that it would also not be very wise to have spent all the funds two months before the end of the budget year. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They are to be allocated, not consumed, and 40 percent do not need to be held back in November. It's commercial not right what you say. If you need further assistance, go to Mr Hazelsteiner, who has shown that he can. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What can he do?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budget provides for a remarkable increase in the appropriations for Krems. Krems gets up by about 20 percent the funds. That sounds very good at the first moment, Minister of State. You said that was the case because there are more students there. I am unable to check the number at the moment, but I am aware that the cost of administration in Krems is so high in the budget that what benefits the students is insufficient. I would therefore ask for a reform, namely that at least the administrative tasks in Krems be reduced to the necessary extent. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you what an Austrian professor who teaches at Stanford University Economy told me recently. He told me that the last relevant publications in economics from Austria came from the 1930s. Then my blood stared to ice. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: How old is the Lord?]] Professor Lukesch! I can't judge it. Unfortunately, I don't have a camera team with me if I continue my education. But I assume that part of this criticism by Professor Leube, who is an economic professor at Stanford University, is correct. When I read what the "trend" writes – again a source where I didn't share – I have to say: It is terrifying what can happen in Austria! You will be right, Professor Lukesch, when I say that the possibility of control and sanctions in service law is only theoretical in nature. Mr Höllinger from the Ministry – you probably know him, Mr. Lukasch – says, for example: Professors must be prosecuted in order to remove their unannounceability! It is in the article in the "trend" of a professor who has completed an 11-year period of medical training during his work as a professor, that is, studies and then gymnastics. Over 30 years, this professor has not done any scientifically usable work. Over 30 years! So it's not the talk of a short period in which he might have had some inconsistencies. It goes on to say: There are professors who fly in to do their duty a day a week. So I think the understanding that professors have of their duty to universities is very strange. I can only draw comparisons with the American universities I have attended. There a professor is not represented by an assistant, because the students would not tolerate that. There the students would be quite nervous if the professors were not in the lecture hall a minute after the start of the lecture. The article of the "trend" reads as follows: There is a debilitating Laisser-fair vote, and there is a perfect choir spirit among the professors. Or: Mr Felder, whom you probably know, Mr Lukesch, says: Two current ten-page articles in high-quality journals are usually worth more than a thick obsolete doctoral thesis. Federal Minister! You must notice these appeals and these cries! It's not true at the universities, it's not true with the professors, it's not true with the students, it's not true with research! There you should, I mean, intervene! Ladies and gentlemen! In the UK, for example – to get away from America – there is a ranking of scientific productivity. If you do not publish, you will lose research funds and assistants and at the same time have to carry out more administrative activities. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: In Stanford, people are simply being terminated after three reminders. Then there's no longer this place. It is true that they are only from the age of 65. Life-years experience a little mild, but not before. So it's different. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want our students to be properly trained, we must also provide them with the professors, but not just one day a week! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have wonderful professors. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Thank God you say that too!]] I was two days ago at the farewell of a professor at the University of Vienna, who is the head of the dental clinic. His reputation is sufficient that even people from America have flown in to say good - bye. We have excellent people. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: (Applause) Well! Thank you!]] I don't want to abdicate this. Only: These people certainly also like to be ranked, so to speak, in disciplining measures, they have nothing against it, because they would not be in conflict with it. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Disciplining Not!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] I do not know what you are doing scientifically, Professor Lucisch, nor do I want to know, I just hope that you will cash the money for it at an adequate level and not too much. [[Abg. Kröll: That was sharp next door!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I just hope that I will not put it to you, I have not examined it, but I am convinced that Mr Lukesch himself can judge what is right. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, I would like to say that my speaking time has soon expired to speak to the students. We have the situation in Austria that two thirds of the students are working. This share has recently multiplied. Students who have to work in order to be able to conduct a study have a different profile of their duties, put other requirements on the lectures they want to attend. I would like to see more flexibility. It should be possible, for example, that lectures of the same content read by different professors are held at least once at a different time than in prime time in the morning or in the afternoon so that they can also visit the working students. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: What is the double of two thirds? They said that the proportion of working students has multiplied! What's the double of two thirds?]] No, no, no, The share that has now reached two thirds has multiplied over the past few years. But I'd like to be willing to make sure you get an appointment with the President of the ÖH. He'll explain this to you exactly and slowly. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What is multiplying of two thirds?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should see that new technologies are being introduced in order to have the opportunity to participate in lectures and, in part, exercises via the Internet. They're all shaking with their head. You've probably never thought about using a computer in college, gentlemen of the ÖVP. But it would be high time you thought about it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The hardware is not used at Austrian universities for five months. We are committed to not having a university operation at the universities for five months. That can't be right! Let us consider together whether it would be more sensible to introduce a system of Trimesters, where we can make greater use of existing resources, where we can use the laboratories, for example in the language field or in the scientific field, and where the assistants and professors also have the opportunity to have greater flexibility in order to achieve a more continuous phase in their research activities. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But You don't want flexibility, but you want to regulate it all the time. That's the problem! [[Extensive opposition to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Who rejected the Study Act?]] Yes, I rejected the Studiengesetz! You know why? Because your group rejected all the amendments – at least ten – that I tabled for deregulation. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The biggest braker in higher education policy, gentlemen of the ÖVP, is Professor Lukesch, and if you do not believe me, ask the students of your group. Please invite them to a debate! Then you'll see that's true. But if you don't believe this, ask the president of the ÖH! He'll confirm it to you! Brakes are you in higher education policy! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Such a nonsense!]] Federal Minister! I hope you can change that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[9:40]] President Dr Heinz Fischer: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2730	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Gredler! The argumentum ad hominem has never set anyone in the right or has given his argument more credibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What you have offered today, namely a round-trip in the Austrian higher education landscape with a proper laxation of the professors, that reveals itself. They've become unbelievable. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] If you say that our university law is too inflexible, I would remind you who has submitted the request to change the right to serve. It was the "Bremser" who was shocked by you. You've just joined this. That's all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I took part in the budget hearing. All experts in the budget hearing have confirmed to the next year that very significant consolidation success has been achieved – consolidation success to ensure the future of our children and our youth. That's indisputable! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But – ladies and gentlemen, I have always said this – we need a dynamic policy under the condition of budgetary consolidation. Especially in the field of the science budget – this afternoon we will deal with the school budget or the educational budget – but also in the security field, the Federal Government has set specific priorities and clear accents precisely in the sense of a dynamic policy. That's what I call future security! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] It has already been said: Two billion schillings more will be spent next year, about eight percent the increase. Austria can thereby continue the successful path of the consistent reform of our universities – and I would like to say this to Mrs Gredler. Even the oppositional critics – Mr Brauneder is not here now, because he inquired in the committee about what university reforms had done in savings – should read about what German Federal President Roland Herzog said on 5 July. At the German Education Conference in Berlin in November for the German education and higher education system, we want to compare it with what we have done in Austria in the meantime. Roland Herzog said: Do not regulate educational content through bureaucratic requirements and as uniform as possible – as a new task. Ladies and gentlemen! We've got this with the Uni-StG, that's on 1st. It has already entered into force on 1 August 1997. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] The German Federal President Herzog also said: "It is wrong to assume that the best education can only be supplied by the state." [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] – I remind you: We were – especially the ÖVP, but together with our social democratic coalition partner – who founded and approved the technical universities at the private organizational level. [[New condolences with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] So: What is still a dream in Germany has long been a reality in Austria! We introduced autonomy and responsibility in the UOG 1993! We have given at least the legal requirements to increase efficiency! And if I compare our university landscape with the German – especially the colleagues from FPÖ always look at Germany – then you have to say: There, at least from higher education law, we are separated from each other for years of light! We have the much more advanced approach than comparable countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I welcome the next step that the Federal Minister will take to meet a demand which we have repeatedly taken, namely the step from partial autonomy to full autonomy of universities. This is now gradually being tried at the University of Economics and at the University of Veterinary Medicine. That is the right way, and we will give our support for this path! Ladies and gentlemen! Two years ago, from this point of view, I said that it is worrying – and I say this to the Greens in particular – to spend more and more money on the same. I'll tell you: This will not be accompanied by success! Today I am glad that we can spend more money on other, new, reformatory ones. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, we have also launched a number of reforms in social services for students and student transfers. You may have affected one student or another very negatively. There were cuts, no question. I am therefore saying: If we want to achieve social justice to ensure equal opportunities for our young people – this is also a principle of the Austrian People's Party – it would be time to study how the youth is affected by the reform of transfers. A new report on the social situation should therefore be requested. I'll tell you: In the next science budget, we spend 2.1 billion schilling for social transfers for students, only for student funding of 134 million schilling more than last year. However, we want to know whether these expenditures are correct or whether there are areas of problem which we do not see. We want to be able to react accordingly. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So much, Mrs Gredler, about the name 'Bremser', to the alleged claim of the students that I was a braker. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That's right!]] You brought it from somewhere, but it certainly doesn't correspond to reality. You can support our request. Once again you can "go down" and jump on a run-down train. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The last minute I have available, I would like to focus on research and technology policy in a short word. It is in relation to yesterday's reading of letters by colleagues. Van der Bellen has already been pointed out that he has only said half the truth that he has not mentioned the ERP-mediatifications and the dedications of the privatization proceeds. I would like to find a more general approach. I believe that the reorganisation of Austrian research and technology policy makes sense under Schmidt-Hochleitner-Papierklär Jn – but only under two conditions. First: On condition that the necessary linkage between university, basic research, and technological research, as applied research, is ensured. In my opinion, this also includes the personal responsibility of the Minister for Science and Economic Affairs for this future area. Secondly, On condition that we make money available for these new structures in order to actually achieve the objective of raising the Austrian research rate to OECD average in 2002. This money – as colleagues from FPÖ may be alerted to this – could well be made available as investment funds in the future with evaluation reserves from the Austrian National Bank and in the form of the establishment of a national research fund – but not to finance ongoing wage tax reform measures, as you, ladies and gentlemen, have called for from the liberals. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: I believe that the increase in the scientific budget and the reforms are a decisive step towards improving the future of our children and our youth, but also a responsible step in front of our taxpayer, who ultimately gives us the money for it. New money for new ways in science! – that is the motto of this budget chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2891	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lucsch, Mr Ddr. Deweisers and colleagues on the preparation of a report on the social situation of students have been properly submitted and are under negotiation. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2915	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few words on the comments made by Mr Gredler. I can tell you in very accurate knowledge of the right of service for public servants: It is not true that a professor of silver spoons needs to steal to be able to do anything under service. I have the impression that a few black sheep, which are admittedly everywhere, are being used to construct a reason for finally being able to carry out a merciless degradation, for example, to bring an entire sector, university teaching and research, to the defensive. In every profession, there are people who do not take their duties very precisely, who drive Schindluder. But it is not true that the service provider could not do anything about it. It would be much easier, especially in civil service law, to do something against people who do not take their professional duties seriously if the service provider actually wanted to do so. It is sufficient to provide a three-time negative service description in order not to make a termination, but a timeless redundancie. I believe that this is justified in very few exceptional cases, and if it is not done there, then I believe it has the method to force the public sector in general, and in particular the future-oriented, modern sector, into the knees, to push it into the defensive. It is the same thing that one often accuses of the FPÖ, namely a refugee who may have been unjustly concerned with any social benefits, and thus, in total, for discrimination, for racist arguments, is massively operated by the government side in the field of studies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Gredler!]] No, not by Mrs Gredler, but by the government parties. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Of course!]] There is no place to be set by the Greens or the Liberals, but there is a division of the departments in the education sector, which is managed by the SPÖ and the ÖVP, and there are no consequences there in individual cases, because, as has been said, this small minority is needed to discredit the entire sector. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that education as a whole has unfortunately become defensive. That's the way it is, that's the goal! I should actually say to the Minister of State and the representatives of the Government: Bravo, you seem to achieve all your goals! Now we have what you always wanted: a departure from the freedom of education, a narrowing of access, an expensive, and that works! Their concept seems to have gone up. You – in particular you, ladies and gentlemen before the Social Democratic Party! – don't want to express this openly, because it doesn't sound good when you say: What we wanted in the 1970s and still in the 1980s, namely to stimulate more people to a high level of education, to provide education for large sections of the population, especially for members of the lower social strata, we do not want to do that anymore! Let's get rid of that! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is a common submission!]] This is not a Community, Mr Deweiser. You know that, just, you don't want to hear it, and you do it differently, for example, by tolerateing some black sheep, so that the rectors, the middle construction, the students have to justify for individual abuses. That's exactly what we're trying to do! Mr Niederweiser! Since 1970, expenditure per student has fallen by more than 50 percent. Is this the educational offensive of the Social Democratic Party? Is this a commitment to the formation of wider populations? But especially where education becomes more expensive, such as in the scientific and technical field, but not only there, is a rapid trend – if you look at the budget structures, you will be able to see this; this is done under social-democratic majority participation – towards Metternich State. In the field of internal and external security, quite traditionally understood in the sense of shooting rifle and all these things, I do not place the same savings will. In these areas it is quite clear: We must do that, we are internationally obliged to do so, Schengen and Co. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask you: What about the modern parts of the state, where emancipation is concerned, about the triggering of population groups from dependence, to a conscious promotion of women, to a conscious promotion of students? One must admit: The social-democratic approach of the 1970s has been successful. Only: You don't want to remember that anymore! But you hear from you again and again, like a prayer mill, the opposite, to force the universities into the defensive once again. Open access to higher education was successful. The lower social strata have benefited disproportionately from this. If you look at the bottom tenth of your income, you can see that the number of students coming from this population between 1983 and 1991 has more than doubled. If you take the bottom quarter – this is a slightly wider group – you can find that there has almost doubled the number of students. The proportion of women in universities has also developed very happily. For example, the proportion of women in university students is 53 percent. The fact that the numbers of graduates and then the other university careers of women are not so pleasing is first of all a question of time and second of all also a question of accompanying measures, such as childcare, active women's promotion and so on. But one no longer wants to pursue this policy, now one closes. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser denied.]] You do not need to shake your head, Mr Deweiser, it is so! – If I hear from a Social Democratic Minister of Science, we need more career-oriented studies without a scientific claim, then I have to say: Bravo, Mr Lukesch, you've been through! The ÖVP always wanted a concept towards dilution, elite formation, expensive and close top training, and for the masses there should be accountancy courses and a little technical, the mass should learn a little basic book right and similar. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's wrong!]] For what does the mass need something scientific? What does the mass need for? What about some philosophical considerations in the natural sciences? That doesn't need the mass! What do you need that for? You need something hard on your hand, something that you implement every day – and just don't go much far away. The people at the universities could be political! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I didn't do the UOG!]] They say: Jus, veterinary medicine, teaching school – what about the university ballast? What's this scientific snorkel for? Let's do that! Something in the type of high-school education has failed a lot. People don't come up with stupid ideas. They will not be involved in any policy considerations. It's supposed to be hand-fixed! It's supposed to be professional! They should learn what we need, and that is the way Mr Lukasch is talking about it. Just as the professors of advanced semesters imagine, universities should be. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I never said that!]] There they are much more handy, there they are much more practical. There'll be a lot less protests out there. And there, of course, it also looks different with the share of women: not even 20 percent! That's much finer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is in my eyes plan economy in pure culture. What some companies need on the market is a political goal. And then you adapt it in the form that you also know that in the family and everywhere the pressure on women increases, according to the motto: Who needs that? For whom do we pay any travel costs? Well, for the girl it doesn't pay off anyway, that can be married anyway! – This is the philosophy that comes out quite clearly. The Social Democrats, of course, do not say this openly, but they do. Each of these steps they take. Even if you say that you are concerned with autonomy and flexibility when consulting the UniStG: I heard something else in committee. First of all, the ÖVP was only represented there with male professors, with not quite young. There was nothing to see from representatives of the students there. The professors of advanced semesters have been very concerned about what will happen to the young students, they could do – literally so in the Committee! – Choose "branchy combinations" and grow your own future. That was her concern: "branchy combinations"! – I mean, what young people need, what young people need and what young women want, should not old men break their heads. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The students have the highest risk of choosing a wrong study. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And what about the old women, Mrs. Petrovic?]] They are usually wiser than the old men because they have a different socialization and participate in different life. Therefore, I entrust the older women with much more wisdom than the old men, who experience in their socialization only a very small segment of the broad fullness of life. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And when does the age start, Mrs. Petrovic?]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Yes, you're very upset. Why Feel Are you talking to the "old men", my lords professors? I didn't mention you specifically, but if you feel you're talking, I can't do anything for it either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: When is a woman old? When is a woman old, I want to know!]] On the "branchy combinations", Mr. Khol, you should not break your head. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Petrovic, are you old? Mrs. Petrovic, are you old?]] With your alleged market-economy attitude, you prefer to leave the assessment of the study combinations to those who are concerned themselves. I think our students, the women and the men, are enough to know what they want. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Tell me when old age begins!]] Especially in a dynamic economy, new requirements are developing, new areas of activity that you are not supposed to control and specify in a planned way, and that are not at all capable of doing so. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No answer! Mrs Petrovic does not know what old people are!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is more than 50 percent decrease in expenditure per student. There's hardly anything to do with this now that there's a minimal increase. Finally and overall... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Poor Sascha Van der Bellen! He's hardly there, she's being recklessly criticized by Mrs Petrovic!]] Mr Khol! Her behavior doesn't make it better. I know you're annoyed, but it's so, and the students all see it that way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is the green "solidarity"! It's hard to be there, you fall mercilessly over him!]] Mr Khol! I have already said this to Mr Lukesch: Bravo, bravo, you've won! Social democracy is eating you out of hand! Closed university access is obviously the model of the future. It's had effects. What you want ultimately goes towards an Americanization: the limitation to a few elite institutes and for the broad mass there are hand-proof accounting courses and the like. We're on our way there. The social situation of students: That's where you're giving... [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a disdain of the colleges!]] I don't underestimate the colleges. I think they are an important complementary offer. But if I hear from the mouth of the Minister of Science that this should be the actual model, for trainings such as Jus, Veterinary Medicine, Teaching and so on, I will tell you: [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's the point of view!]] That is a wrong approach, that would be an absolute narrowing! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] And one thing is also a typical reaction of this government: They now have a study on the social situation of students. This is certainly to be examined, but I ask you in every form: Why hasn't this happened a long time ago? Why don't you hear me? – In the field of Austrian high school there are probably already numerical material. Of course, there are also the statistics on university access. There are also statistics on the proportion of women in terms of changes in the light of savings packages. We have a total decline in students. I ask you: Why has it not already been raised? Why do you make savings packages without accompanying control, what happens to them? Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group, above all: You know very well that your own science spokesman and many others, under a conscious misinterpretation of the existing and known figures, repeatedly claim falsely, study only benefits the upper social strata. – That’s not true! It's scientifically rebutted, it's wrong. Nevertheless, you always represent this thesis, and you only have one thing in mind: They do not prepare a model of tuition fees until the 1999 election, but until then it is ready for decision-making. It will not come in this period, but the model will be fixed and finished in the drawer at the 1999 election. And what this means by an unmodified structure in the university field is absolutely clear: The social selection of students continues. This has an impact on women and on poorer social strata, and it has an impact on those disciplines and subjects that are not as direct and hand-resistant as the bookkeeping. That's quite clear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing about research; my colleague Gabriele Moser will then comment on the field of transport. With regard to the collection of these two departments, I would like to say that today, in this discussion, the whole dispassion really shows: The staff members sit there – on different sides. The two departments still have nothing to do with each other. From any synergies – this word is very modern – through this "residence of the future", as one has announced, I can see nothing. It's become a pallawach, and that's what's left. Therefore, from my side only a few words for research. There is also the following: You can interpret the numbering material somehow. It is still possible to try to add something to the matter through the deterioration of the family silver there or there, but we are in fact in all areas of research compared with OECD countries in the lower area. Even with the research funds that are paid, everything is Bluff and Dirty. – I did not invent this appreciation, but I join Mr. Welzig, the President of the Academy of Sciences, who speaks in this context of "Bluff" and "Schmäh". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But this is also an old professor of male sex!]] It's not all that professors say, it's basically wrong. It is only wrong for them to think about the future of youth and make them rules in a non-market-compliant way. I didn't say anything else. You should listen a little better, Mr. Khol. Welzig speaks of "Bluff" and "Schmäh" in connection with the research budget – and I conced the President of the Academy. I do not know how you assess it when, for example, the construction effort for the AKH or the additional burden on the university clinics, the clinical additional burden, is under "research". Ladies and gentlemen! This is really a numbering, and that has nothing to do with supporting research. And once again, Mr Lukesch: I too am absolutely in favour of application-oriented research, but I believe, first of all, that there should be much clearer and clearer emphasis in the field of research where there is a third-party funding. I think it's something most pious, you don't need to hide that, you could really reveal it. I think it is good if economic activities cooperate with the university, but it should be made public, it should be made transparent, and I also believe that some of these third-party funds should be available to the university, for example in the order of 10 percent, among other things, in order to be able to teach the so-called orchid compartments that I consider very important, by the universities autonomously through the university bodies. Secondly, this development cannot be deceiving...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3228	Ladies and gentlemen, the 20 minutes have been exhausted. Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3244	... that we also have a dramatic failure in the field of basic research. And in total, it hurts me to see once again the retreat of the universities in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3276	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. – The clock is set to 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3297	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic, that the employees of the two parts of the ministry sit here in a spatially separate way, may well be related to the architecture of this House. If this were different, then the colleagues in the science and transport sectors would have a place on a single side. The architecture of this salale does not allow this. Mrs Petrovic! In addition, I am convinced that science, research and transport in particular determine our future. But I already admit that the greens on this "future suction" may have slight signs of blindness. Ladies and gentlemen! The importance of transport is also taken into account in the budget. A total of 26.33 billion schilling are available for transport. The public service is worth 8.2 billion; 4.7 billion are planned for the ecobonus, 1.2 billion for the transfer bonus from the road to the rail and 675 million schilling for the transport associations. The trips to school and to the workplace are very important to us, they need support. Allow me to say here, ladies and gentlemen, that not the SPÖ policy is due to the fact that the price of the time-cards on the part of the ÖBB from 1. In 1998, the increase was 15 per cent, but was mainly due to the reduction of subsidies from the Ministry of Family Affairs at the expense of pupils and commuters. The financing of local transport is an issue that we discussed yesterday. In this respect, we will have to discuss and adopt a local transport law here in the house in 1998. It must go towards greater customer orientation, attracting supply, increasing cost efficiency and increasing competition. Our objective is clearly to safeguard public transport also in rural areas and to attract public transport. The importance of transport for us, including for the economy, does not mean that we do not have to reduce the burden. The emissions of nitrogen oxides, carbon dioxide and traffic noise are significant. The number of more than 1,000 deaths per year also speaks a spoken language. As far as the trends for the future are concerned: By 2020, says the Transport Ministers Conference, freight traffic on the road will rise by 90 percent, with road passenger traffic rising by 40 percent. The limits of acceptance are clearly recognizable. Ladies and gentlemen! We need a reorientation in transport policy, and this is now being consistently implemented by the Social Democrats. First of all, we see transport prevention as the top priority. This is about reducing empty journeys as well as using modern telecommunications facilities. It is only recently that we have also adopted a modern telecoms law as a framework condition. Secondly, we are moving towards environmentally friendly modes of transport, i.e. rail, rail or ship. The ÖBB will achieve a record result this year, namely the transport of a total of 75 million tonnes on the rail – in 1996 it was 71.2 million – although all trains in Europe will lose their share of freight. The Austrian freight transport performance on the rails is 8.7 million per inhabitants, 3.5 million tonnes in Germany. If we had German conditions in Austria, we would have to transport by 40 million tons more on the road. That would be unimaginable. With the possibility of having 140 billion schilling from the SCHIG, a huge boost can be started in the expansion of the rail infrastructure and is also set in motion. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be noted here that Austria, as a modern industrialized country, needs, of course, an environmentally sound transport infrastructure. That is why I am shocked by the attitude of the ÖVP, the FPÖ Lower Austria and the head of state Pröll that he is preventing the Semmering base tunnel and thus resisting the economic development of the future. I appeal to Mr Landeshuptmann, to the ÖVP-Nederösterreich and to the FPÖ-Nederösterreich to reconsider their attitude. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, the head of state will become an obstacle or, as the "standard" writes, become an opener. I quote very briefly from the "standard": "Pröll hears the quietest signals of this kind at least throughout the community, before elections even in Lower Austria. God, what did this man open this day? Walls in all buildings, asphalt in all lengths and widths, 6 kilometres long freight routes. May no man at this point, no more damage to a vehicle!, said Pröll in his sermon at the opening of a total of 50. Lower Austrian circles." [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A good man!]] "A Hollabrunn traffic lamp had to flash yellow for a week, because the opened politician had no appointment," it says. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Was that the Höger, Mr. Parnigoni, who had no time? Do you want to open a traffic light? Thank you for advertising Erwin Pröll! A good man!]] " Only the Semmering tunnel he doesn't like. For so much money, he can build and open all 10 kilometres of circular traffic." – End of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm really looking for the ÖVP Lower Austria to rethink their attitude. My speaking time is over. I would just like to point out, of course, that we still have to prevail in one area, namely the truth of costs. We will fight for truck road pricing, because if it turns out at Vignette billing that the car drivers – more than 30 percent of them foreigners – have to pay 2.8 billion schilling, while the truck area brings only 300 million schilling into the pot, then it can be seen that there is a massive cross-subsidisation from the car to the truck. And I hope you won't like this, both ÖAMTC, ARBÖ and the Transport Club. I am waiting for their uprising, because then you will finally understand that what we have agreed in the Coalition Agreement to introduce a truck-road pricing already in 1998 has to be implemented. I hope and trust in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3348	The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3370	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I am not talking about transport, at least not traffic in this sense. I would like to thank Mrs Petrovic for something, namely that she did not look at me at the quote of the calcified professors – I think she should say: male professors. I would ask Mrs Petrovic to do this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She looked at me!]] We have passed a "century law" at the beginning of the summer, if I can bring this to mind. Mr Lukesch, noding colleague, I think, was the one who called it that way. It was also a "Magna Charta" if I remember quite well, Mr. Lukesch. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Yes!]] This "year-old law" has actually quickly entered the foreign daily press. Even the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" writes: "And who is to bear a text like that of an Austrian – then – bill..." – and now the quote comes from it: "The dean/study dean/student/student/student/student/student/student/student/student/student/student/student/student/student(s)/s)/student/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s Well, I don't just want to make fun of the language of this law – that was a quote from a Swiss newspaper; I want to emphasize it – but to remind myself that it was the main task of this law to bring universities more autonomy. But I would like to ask Mr Niederweiser, who brought autonomy or allegedly brought it – in flight – if I may, Mr. Niederweiser, I would like to extend it to him. He talked about pressure on the universities. So one has granted autonomy, but hardly entered into force, it is said that one has to exercise pressure – that word he has used according to "press" – to ensure that the study plans are adopted quickly. And you too, Mr Minister, later spoke of the "additional pressure" to be exerted here. I want to get something positive, namely understanding that something may have to be changed in this law. But I don't think pressure is right. Mr Niederwieser also said how he imagined this "pressure" by the various allocations of resources. So one hangs with autonomy, so to speak, on the tape of money, and I am also on the subject of budget – some previous speakers may forgive me. The price for autonomy – or for this alleged autonomy – is very varied. I thank you for answering a question, especially the officials of the Ministry. It really surprised me to read what the ratio of the administrative service's planning offices at universities to the teaching staff planning facilities actually looks like – I now leave the nursing service aside –: University teachers about 54 percent of the workforce, 46 percent is administrative staff. That is to say, the autonomy has at least brought – I say this kindly – no reduction in bureaucracy at universities; I would even suspect an increase in bureaucracy, especially through the new UOG. It has been referred to the third examination date, and it has been said that the professors oppose it. I ask that I say something for my stand, on the other hand. For example, since several semesters I have been conducting a third examination, with other colleagues, and I must say that this third examination date hacks the teaching firm in the middle of the semester and leads to not always positive block teaching events. In particular, since the written examinations are also included, at least more audit staff is required, more administrative staff is required, and, of course, examination facilities are also to be provided. This is clearly at the expense of teaching in the middle of the semester. Ladies and gentlemen! If there is now this convergence that some faculties are filed for concern, I would like to say: I would not see it negative that one should report concerns. If one refuses to submit to the text of the law, then it is right to criticise it, but also here the bad legal situation has brought something, namely that where there is a different number of examination dates in the study plans, less, fixed and the study plans are now frozen, in the Connex with the legislative text – I say so – at least the legal-theoretically interesting problem: Which law is to which the Lex specialis? – One might have been able to regulate this, with a better law, Mr. Lucisch. Finally, one could now say in addition: Well, less teaching, but we now have more teaching through teaching new types. In this respect, I also accept the grateful answer to the question that this new teaching assignment should be a structural adjustment. A structural adjustment, please! And on the other hand, we have autonomy. I wonder, How does that fit together? – This structural adjustment costs money. If that brings something – why not, even in times of the savings package – then it would be good, but it is now obliged to teach at least three-semester active assistants. And I dare to say that we now have more, more quantitatively, but qualitatively there has not necessarily been an improvement here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to stress once again the arch of autonomy. I believe that things have been settled at ministerial level and also here by the House, which actually belong to the area of autonomy, for example the third examination date. There should be a provision in the law, because the need for and the design of the teaching are quite different at the faculties: written examination – oral examination, large faculty – small faculty. That's to be distinguished. But what I really regret is that we have lost control of the design of the study plans. I do not want to speak autonomously, but we will see that problems will arise in the design of the study plans, in particular the uniform design of the study plans as far as possible. This House would have been the right place to pass study framework laws. Even if you do not believe this, Mr Lukesch, it is my full conviction, because it is also true at foreign universities. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3435	The next speaker is Mr Kukacka. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3456	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! When I look at the green banks, I see emptiness in particular. The squares are lost. Its interest is once again different. And while we are dealing here with the science and transport budget, the Greens are trying to stir emotions just at this hour outside the house, at Michaelerplatz, with forward-looking actionism. Once again – as you can read in your leaflet – they ride against NATO and also do so against the extremely modest defense budget of Austria. Mr Wabl and Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander are also talking about this, of course. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not understand when Members of the National Council take part in cheap actionism outside Parliament during the budget debate and build sand castles. You have to be here in the house! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But these sand castles that they build are still like their arguments on security policy: They are based on forward-looking effects and also carry a short period of time. The wind of the history of time – of which we are sure – will blow it, because they are built on no solid foundation, but only on sand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But now let me come back to the transport budget. Minister for Transport At the beginning of the year, one took over the transport resort from its predecessor and launched a series of unfinished materials. Some open questions have been answered; I am thinking of the Telekom Act, the amendment to the motor vehicle law, the driving licence law – all the materials that I believe we have done well. But a number of tasks are still ahead of us. But what bothers me a little – and above all the public, Mr Minister – is the fact that in some legislative projects – I mean the driving licence law here – significant deficits have been identified with regard to the implementation of the Ministry of Transport. Although the law was already passed here in July of this year and with 1. Unfortunately, not all preparatory measures, transmission provisions and regulations have been taken in such a way that the provisions contained therein could also be implemented. For example, in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten": "Führerscheinchaos is perfect. New regulation is contrary to the law. The confusion about the wretched driving license law will be perfect. It has now been shown that even the implementing regulation is contrary to the law. Offices and authorities are at despair." And it goes on to say: "Chaos in offices. Checkers are waiting for driver's licenses." The comments are from "Husch-Fusch-Action" to "Chaos", by officials who should issue the new driver's licenses since yesterday, but cannot. Ladies and gentlemen! What I would like to express is that we have to fight with an execution deficit, which unfortunately falls back on our politicians, because of course we are not responsible for the administration, but for our politicians. For example, in a comment of the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten": With all legitimate criticism, there is a small aftertaste. Policymakers have passed the law in Parliament. But they did not seem to have read it, otherwise they would have had to recognize the unfavorable earlier. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This hurts because we really don't feel responsible for this impotence – and they aren't – but we have tried to actually design and enforce this law, as well as it was in our powers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister! The Regulation on the Psychological Qualification Test, to which 15-year-old applicants must apply for the Moped ID, is also considered to be dissatisfaction, in particular by the young people concerned. In any event, it is necessary to reduce the cost of transport psychology, students or apprentices who can afford this amount at most in exceptional cases, to cost 5 000 s. The whole procedure must also be simplified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This Regulation also makes no difference between "normal" candidates and those around the licence from 15 years of age. These are candidates for a steering licence – I quote from the regulation – who did not exist five times the theoretical part of the driving test or four times the practical part of the driving test, in which there are doubts about their power-specific performance, in particular the intelligence and the memory due to a supplementary official examination. Ladies and gentlemen! This equality is absurd and ridiculous, even directly insulting, and only shows that the young candidates were being beaten to the feet. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Even the Upper Austrian Social Democratic Transport Councillor Haider calls for the abolition of the traffic psychological investigation. [[Abg. Auer: That's reasonable!]] It runs into open doors with this, because the traffic psychological investigation was only introduced because it was made a condition by the Curatorium for Transport Safety and the Ministry of Transport in order to give the possibility of mopeding from 15 years of age. [[Abg. Schuster: Youth-Animosity!]] I think it is legal and political in times of EU competition that the Transport Safety Board is given a Quasimonopol for the implementation of this investigation by means of the conditions laid down in the Regulation. We really don't think that's right! [[Consent with the ÖVP.]] In Bavaria, mopeding has been allowed since 15 years of age, as well as in Switzerland and in many other countries. [[Abg. Auer: In Switzerland from 14!]] It works without problems. There, a simpler and cheaper yet effective path has been taken in the psychological examination. The psychological test certificate issued by the Bavarian TÜV costs 207 D-Mark. The investigation is carried out by an officially recognised examiner in accordance with the German expert law. All of this works well and easily there. – In Austria, on the other hand, this study costs 5 000 S. In this way we frighten the young people who depend on the moped because otherwise they cannot reach their workplace, their educational and school places especially in rural areas under adequate conditions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the current traffic accident figures, I confirm above all my demand for pollution-related accident control. The main cause of road accidents is the high, unadapted speed at a frequency of 42 percent. [[Abg. Khol: That's it!]] Other main causes of accidents are priority consideration with 13 percent, risky overtaking with 8 percent, pre-emptive overtaking at 10 percent, and only then comes alcoholization with 7 percent. A major problem is that the studies show that the life-saving measures introduced years ago, such as the belt laying obligation, are increasingly negated. Ladies and gentlemen! This development must be countered both by increased control activity by the executive, which should work with plan squares and higher surveillance pressure, as well as by increased awareness and persuasion work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, the Board of Directors for Transport Safety would be predestined to take over this persuasion, information and information work and, by means of concrete campaigns and actions, draw attention to compliance with existing standards and regulations, rather than repeatedly creating new demands whose effect is doubtful, as they cannot be properly reviewed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few years ago, therefore, the legislator decided on a 20 per cent commitment to penalties to intensify traffic surveillance, to increase staff and to provide additional surveillance equipment. But Mr Schlögl has just recently informed me that the number of posts of the executive for monitoring – although the amount of financial resources has increased significantly through the commitment of purpose – has remained the same for years, at 514 planning posts. Nor is it intended to increase this number in the future. High house! This clearly contradicts the intention of the legislator, which he had in connection with the commitment of purpose. We believe that the number of monitoring posts, the number of monitoring staff, should be increased, otherwise our demand for higher surveillance pressure will remain with no consequences and no meaning. There lies the miscarriage buried, there has to be done – and not with new standards that are not monitored, because there is supposed to be too little money. The money is available. Only its purpose must be used accordingly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3593	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3615	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add briefly to what Mrs Gredler said, particularly with regard to Mr Lukesch, and in particular that is why, Mr Lukesch, because you said in committee - and it was held by Mr Gredler - that she supported a request made by the ÖVP or you. You know that it is common practice in committee meetings, Mr Head of Parliament, that the opposition is also in the process of bringing in applications which usually go beyond what the coalition is prepared to do. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You didn't make a request at all!]] We have tabled a number of proposals in this regard. If it is so that such a request is made, you will always be blocked. If you are then supported by the opposition, after the further application has been rejected, by what is being done by this coalition in "triple steps", then the plenary will try to keep it to you. I would like to say to you: This will not be particularly acceptable to a constructive consultative environment in the Committee. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I can prove to you, especially in the example of your speech, Mr Lucisch, because you spoke of social justice for young people, that, in reality, when you speak of social justice and solidarity, you mean solidarity of privileged people with other privileged ones. They do not mean solidarity between privileged and non-privileged people. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What?]] The evidence for this, Mr Lukesch, was probably the salary reform in the university area, in which the professors were not allowed to take anything at all – but for this the entire middle building was sacrificed. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I beg you!]] You know that in this area you have cut the income of these people by up to minus 20 percent. They know very well that they simply cut down insurance periods and said: Well, you just have to see how you're going on. Even if you've paid, it won't be counted somewhere else. You need to see if you get additional times so that you can gain a claim from them; otherwise, he has just fallen away. - You know that! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Professors too!]] Here the professors have not at all used themselves for those who usually keep the teaching business side by side with them in the university field. On the contrary: They looked at their own bag and so to speak, they let the others swim down the stream. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If we Liberals here and elsewhere, Mr Lukesch, talk about the fact that we do not think this kind of "solidarity", you will have to admit to us that, especially if you consider this to be the concept of basic security, we are very well able to recognize – and are also prepared to enforce it politically – that in our country the difference between those who have more and more, and those who have less and less, is simply too far apart. We need to find a completely new approach, but you have not even been prepared to discuss matters so far. Here, even Federal Minister Bartenstein quotes figures on the government bank, of which he says sniperingly in the cafeteria: I know that it is not so and they are taken into account elsewhere. This is precisely the unfairness with which the debate is being held here in the house, because one is not prepared to talk about the structural shortcomings that exist in this country, because the structural shortcomings are precisely the ones from which you draw your benefits. And you just want to give up these advantages at no price. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] I do not want to comment on the relationship between Mr Haselsteiner and you, Mr Lucisch, and how you treat each other. Please make up your own mind who thinks a "klemmer" is. I would like to oppose what Mrs Petrovic has said, namely that Mrs Gredler has taken out the black sheep in order to get a stand in total discredit: What Mrs Gredler said is a criticism of the system of Pragmatization. That's what she took out. I would like to stress once again the following points in order not to raise any doubt about this: The point is that we consider the system of Pragmatization to be anti-performance in this area. We think it is wrong to maintain a system that does not bring out what could be achieved for students, but also for teachers on positive effects. We therefore criticise the system of Pragmatization in the field of universities. That is what Mrs Gredler said not only. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the 1998 budget is concerned, with regard to my immediate area, namely Chapter 65, Transport and the public sector, I would like to say that: It is true that, in reality, it is only a continuation of the 1997 budget. The changes that have occurred, which are recognizable, are by no means spectacular. In this respect, there is no emphasis in the budget, but it has simply been done what you always do if you have no political plan, namely simply to increase and continue writing the individual posts for yourself. However, I would like to take advantage of the items relating to the railway infrastructure, which is about 11 billion schilling, i.e. almost 1 billion schilling more than before. If it is true that the budget is, in fact, a policy or policy announcement held in a numerical form, then this budget is more about what has been missed in the field of transport, which could not be agreed between the coalition parties than about what we want to do in this country in the future – and this despite a great coalition that has taken place to solve the major problems in that country; thus, despite a 10-year chance, a master plan is still lacking in the field of transport; there is no such plan. However, you will admit to me that this coalition has not created precisely those infrastructure investments which, of course, need to be based on a larger, longer term approach. There is still no guarantee of local transport financing. I know that this has to be done to a great extent with the countries, and that, for example, if Mr Pröll does not, as Mr Parnigoni has said, open up a circulation, of course, he prefers to use the money used for the construction of the Semmering base tunnel in his area for other measures, namely for transport. He may not be aware of this, just: For a greater view of things, this does not speak exactly. But it is true that the coalition from its party structures is not in a position to solve these major problems in a cross-border manner between the federal government and countries. Moreover, this is something Mr Kukacka has also mentioned, which has not succeeded in raising road safety in Austria. But when we talk about the budget and the budget, we should also talk about the fact that, for example, there is a lack of road safety in that country, there is something to do with economic costs. It has to do with human suffering and simply really senseless dying on our streets, but it also has a national cost dimension. As Mr Parnigoni spoke today of a reorientation of transport policy, I say to him: Yes, that is true, but a reorientation of transport policy cannot rely on those forecasts that are now being made, since it is assumed that what has been done so far in transport policy is simply rewritten. One cannot assume and say that under the current conditions of road freight transport will increase by 90 per cent and we therefore need more road capacity accordingly. – This is a wrong approach, because it is true that we will always be lagging behind development with these measures. If we thus create larger infrastructures and greater capacity, then, in accordance with the "food soil principle", which now exists in the transport sector, the individual mode of transport will naturally increase. We will then almost follow the forecast in five years, but we will realize it by means of appropriate infrastructure measures or create the basis for coping with this capacity. But it is also true that this dynamic will of course be further strengthened. They will have to take new infrastructure measures in this area. It will eventually come to the conclusion that to an extent we need infrastructure areas, such as road transport, which are not at all available in Austria in terms of space use potential. That is why the approach must be different, namely that we ask: What do we need to do in spatial planning to ensure that transport routes can be ensured on important axes that exist now? We have to ask: Where is the cost truth missing? This applies not only between trucks and cars, but also to all modes of transport. Where is the cost reality missing, where do we not realise the polluter principle, and how far have we come with an ecological tax reform? – Because if we decide to tax more and more resource consumption, this measure in the transport sector will also lead to a change in consumption and transport behaviour. And then, ladies and gentlemen, it would be useful to make forecasts and say: That's what we need. There are structural measures in transport policy that are not linked to road construction, not to rail construction, but to the framework conditions in order to reorientate mobility at all. We are at a time when there are extremely many upheavals in the world of work. It cannot be said that with low prices in the field of fossil fuels and road construction, we are subsidising transport so that production facilities can then be outsourced abroad, at cheaper labour and at even cheaper costs, and that the products produced there will be brought back to where they are to be sold. – This can be countered by an ecological tax reform. You just need the courage to discuss this here in the house. The Liberal Forum's proposal that we set up a committee of inquiry, in which we put on the table what ideas each group has of an ecological tax reform and on which points one is anyway equal in coverage, was rejected, although we could then implement it. The proposal, in those points where we are not equal to coverage, but where we need more information, or perhaps we may be of a different opinion, so that we simply have to decide by a majority, has not even been taken up by today. They all talk about an ecological tax reform, but the government fractions are not prepared to touch only one finger in this regard. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. May. Gabriela Moser.]] I would therefore like to conclude by speaking, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of road safety and the 0.5% threshold. Mr Kukacka has rightly argued that those accidents caused by a breach of the 0.8 permill limit and costing people's lives on the road are further behind the path of the causes of accidents; above all, there is excessive speed. But you also know, Mr Kukacka – and this is not least due to the survey that you have held in this House; Thank God, I say now – that there is already a much higher risk of about 0.3 promills. I would like to know once again, Mr Kukacka, about this situation in our country, and to what extent a minor overrun of the alcohol limit is responsible for the fact that handlebars are simply overestimating themselves and driving too fast. When an accident occurs, it is said: The handlebar was driving too fast, but it wasn't an accident under alcohol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You have to investigate that!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Yes, that must be examined!]] Mr Khol! That at the last debate on the introduction of a 0.5-promille border – I would not like to remind you of the voting debacle and the image you have delivered! . we Liberals have tabled a motion for a resolution here in the House, you know that. We first proposed and then offered to make a five-party request in this regard. That said exactly what you said today, namely: more control! We need more control in the field of road transport. - All right! That is why we have said liberals: All right, let's control this more strictly. But it was not to be reached – although You said at the time that this was your opinion and you repeated it today – that ÖVP or SPÖ had responded to this request and that we could have tabled such a motion for a resolution together in order to clarify to the Minister of the Interior that we wanted to have greater control. There was no such joint motion for a resolution at the time – and he does not exist today either. I'll tell you: It is unbelievable to stand out here and say: "We want more control!" but to do nothing in this respect, but to say: We do not give out to the Federal Minister for the Interior any will to have this issue on his table, so to speak, and we know what Parliament's opinion is on it. Therefore, this budget, like transport policy as a whole – not only as regards the infrastructure sector, but also as regards the transport safety sector – is characterised by failures, but unfortunately not by priorities and objectives that could vote a bit of hope. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3767	The next speaker is Mr Stippel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3788	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to try to make the impossible a little possible, namely in three minutes to say something fundamental about research and research policy. The internationalisation of research policy has opened up new dimensions in many areas, while also demonstrating barriers and shortcomings. New challenges and new expectations are linked to internationalisation and the necessary modernisation of the research organisation. In most OECD countries, the share of applied research, which is carried out in industry and is generally financed by it, while the public sector continues to be the main financier of basic research at universities and public research institutions. Research policy measures are therefore aimed everywhere at strengthening the links – and this is very crucial – between university, public research institutions and the business sector, with very special attention being paid to promoting joint research. At the same time, progressive globalisation and the transnational nature of science require that international developments be given much more importance in the formulation and implementation of national science policies. Certain trends in development throughout the OECD area are uniform and lead to similar political response patterns. In almost all industrialised countries, efforts to promote and develop human resources as well as to increase the efficiency of national innovation systems remain a priority, while at the same time focusing on further strengthening the internationalisation of research institutions and increasing the mobility of researchers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The objective of the research and technology policy in Austria is to reduce structural barriers to research, increase the efficiency of research as well as the quality of output and the effectiveness of the resources used, and increase the capacity of Austrian companies to develop technological innovations rapidly, adapt to the conditions of the international markets and thus competitiveness as a whole. In order to improve the competitiveness of the Austrian research institutions – which is very crucial – a technology policy approach has been developed, in particular, with measures to improve coordination and cooperation between science and the economy and to increase the willingness to innovate and technology diffusion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The budget and the budget figures for 1998 as well as the two expected "research billions" for 1998 and 1999 seem to make further progress in this direction possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3837	Next speaker is Mrs Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3859	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mag. Kukacka! If you put accusations in the room, then you have to stay there and offer counter-arguments also the forehead. There is the accusation that we Greens do not honor this House because during the budget debates we go to the people, to the people on the streets, to Michaelerplatz and show them clearly that security policy cannot be ensured by means of NATO, not by upgrading, not by joining a military alliance, but by other strategies. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Your job is to be here!]] [[Abg. Auer: You with your green visions!]] Mr Mag. Kukacka blamed us. – I blame him for contributing here in this House to the fact that budget debates are more or less going into sandboxes, because the decisions have already been made somewhere else before, because the nails – mostly without heads – have already been forged somewhere else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] Our reaction to this House being devalued in such a way that Parliamentaryism is punished with absence, that Parliamentaryism is dealt with by pre-decision et cetera, is due to your policy, also to Mr Kukacka's policy, to these political checks or mechanisms. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Now, specifically, on the subject of transport policy: I would like to look at transport policy in principle and to provoke you with a statement that I will certainly not expect you to be a Green Member. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why don't your colleagues listen to you?]] I hope that you will finally make transport policy effective. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You just play sand!]] I demand that you make transport policy more sustainable, and I demand that you, in particular, make transport policy more cost-effective. I support a more cost-effective transport policy, which is becoming more cost-effective, environmentally more sustainable and sustainable in my view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Why? – Budget and transport have one thing in common: It is about numbers, and unfortunately it is always about increases. That is why it is important not only to rethink, but also to act differently, to rework and, above all, to convert. In my opinion, the key word is bad, which my previous speaker Barmüller already needed: Cost truth! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, cost-truth, you know that hopefully, is to understand that what we use is actually paid by us. In this context, I may be able to show you two, three or four facts. Budgetary debates should be marked by the fact that data and facts are presented. First: In 1995, the cost of motor vehicle transport in Austria was 139.6 billion schilling. I can show you this tabularly, unfortunately only from a distance, because here there is no overhead projector. [[the speaker shall keep a table up to date]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We are not in school!]] This table is derived from a study by the Austrian Transport Club. This cost of 139 billion schilling is much lower in revenue. We have practically an incredibly high share of these transport costs from tax and private exchanges, namely 89.8 billion schilling. These 89.8 billion schillings are not covered by car payments, but are dealt with by private and public authorities through taxes, so to speak. And why? – Because otherwise traffic and the entire infrastructure et cetera would not be possible. This will cause a damage which I would like to count afterwards – all at the expense of a majority of the population, at the expense of the state, at the expense of taxpayers. What concrete? – 35 billion schilling costs us economically alone the traffic jam. That must be avoided! Staus must be avoided! A colleague has said that avoidance is the top principle in transport. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's road development!]] They know exactly that road transport is only shifted. New ways will become free, and, of course, new ways will increase the overall volume of traffic – this is a banal wisdom and truth that you can hear, for example, in every lecture by Professor Knoflacher. [[Abg. Kiss: This is the garlic in every soup!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] I said that traffic costs such as congestion costs are not covered by revenue. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Secondly, Nor are those costs caused by noise – more than 7 billion schilling – covered. Thirdly, Costs caused by exhaust gases such as CO2, nitrogen oxides or volatile hydrocarbons – 15.9 billion in total – are not covered. These are the costs of public health. [[Abg. Kiss: The magistrate was better!]] Fourth: Accidents cost us 31.3 billion schilling. I only mention the costs here, because the human suffering is not quantifiable at all. We have already mentioned to the previous speakers that the number of fatalities has increased, but also that the number of fatalities has increased. In Vienna there was 20 percent more traffic deaths than in the previous year. In this context, alcohol consumption has not been wrongly referred to as the cause of increased accident costs. That's what you're to blame for! They insist on the 0.8 promille limit, although it has long been shown that this limit should be reduced to at least 0.5 permill to save life and health and thus save economic costs. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Did you not listen to Kukacka?]] I can easily prove, for example, from newspaper articles, that alcohol consumption contributes to the number of traffic accidents and human sufferings. A larger part certainly contributes to speeding and non-compliance with traffic regulations. But one must work at all levels so that one can a) reduce the number of accidents and thus human suffering and b) also the cost. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Even on motorways?]] I can also bring you data on the alcohol and 0.8/0.5 promille problems. I'm just quoting one article from Vienna: It was, I think, early September, a gastronomy after he drank seven sprays – seven sprays! – felt "blunz'nfat". In fact, 0.8 promills were measured. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I'm so noisy! Could you turn the volume back a little?]] You're welcome! I can speak calmer too. If you're calmer, I'll talk quieter. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now it fits!]] In total, this also reduces gross social product. There are already similar calculations by the EU. The European Commission has published a Green Paper on transport, which documents that the economic costs of motorised transport represent 2.2% of the gross social product. That's money we just throw out the window that's being used counterproductively. These are fatal tax gifts in view of the accident balance - and driven to the top. – One can only say soberly: We simply finance and simply a national insanity – point. [[Abg. Kiss: What is the product of this madness?]] The whole thing was even further to the top: The EU Green Paper predicts an increase in motorised individual traffic by 24 percent for the next ten years. Calculate this! Even now, the national deficit in traffic is over 89 billion schilling, and in ten years it will be over 130 billion. And we're talking about the budget deficit. If you maintain this form of transport policy, do everything you can to get rid of an avalanche in the economic sense of the budget deficit! [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you have a car?]] This is all documented by scientific figures and facts across the EU. Minister! That is why I see a logical link between the Ministry of Science and Transport. Science argues – normally – rationally, it is naturally based on data and facts. Link the rational and data-oriented thinking of science with a transport policy-oriented action! This would be my conviction according to the brilliant starting point of a link between the Ministry of Science and Transport. But how does your transport policy actually look? – They spend more on the federal roads in the future: instead of 7.2 billion, they spend 7.6 billion schilling. They allow railway tariffs to become more expensive for commuters, especially for those of the population, the Depriving its personal comfort et cetera in favour of the general public because it uses not private cars but public transport. The ÖBB, I believe, will be officially announced tomorrow that the weekly and monthly cards will partly become up to 16 percent more expensive. At the ÖBB, you can use cost-truth, where the red pencil rules! – In motorised individual transport, on the other hand, where there are accidents, health costs, damage caused by CO2 and volatile hydrocarbons et cetera, the billions flow! [[Abg. Wabl: Right! How can anyone represent this?]] It's an imbalance! Let cost-truth reign, but rightly also on the side of motorized transport! Your transport policy also leads to the development of the motorway – as the upper Austrian, I only call the Pyhrn motorway and the West spange in Wels, projects that intensify transit and freight transport, as well as increase the traffic burden and costs. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: motorways contribute to reducing accidents!]] Motorways contribute to the increase in traffic! More traffic volumes – read the EU Green Paper! – Then bring more accidents! That's quite clear! [[Abg. Schuster: Just get your job as an Austrian, Mrs. Colleague!]] I want to bring another number to the transit. Transit in Austria accounts for 25 percent of total traffic. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you also drive a car?]] The main part of freight transport is therefore homemade. Due to technically intelligent solutions, freight transport could be reduced within Austria, away from transit. For example, I refer to Otto's shipment in Germany, which was able to reduce the mileage by means of a better logistics. This reduced both operating costs and CO2 emissions. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is what many businesses in Austria are doing!]] This can be documented by newspaper articles. Compared to the Federal Republic of Germany, the transport capacity is 5 000 kilometres per head, in the Federal Republic of Germany 3 800. So in Austria, we have estimated a higher volume of goods per head and kilometers of tons than in the Federal Republic, which is economically superior to us in many ways! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Because Germany has a dense settlement on this area!]] You can talk for a long time about the dense settlement et cetera: It is clear that by means of intelligent transport measures we can absorb the so-called scattering possibility and at least at least reduce these kilometres per head to the level of Germany. As far as transit is concerned, I would just like to point out that, in the context of the European negotiations on transit development in Switzerland, we must definitely strengthen our backs and support and force their Alpine transit initiative. I repeat: In my opinion, the key word in the context of transit is the truth of cost. My previous speakers have already pointed out that passenger cars through the Vignette et cetera pay more than trucks, which is why it is important to ensure, in the form of kilometre and road pricing, that they are true of costs in the case of trucks. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to our ecological tax model "Other taxes", which would give cost-reliance to everyone on the one hand, from infant to grey, an eco-bonus of 10 000 s, and on the other hand, with the help of the kilometre tax, also in motorized transport. [[Abg. Böhacker: Anschober has formulated this better!]] This mileage could also lead to a reduction in emissions by up to 80 percent, as it reduces environmental damage. And it would also make us more competitive, because the companies would have to make their transports more efficient. They certainly all know from the "standard" that the effects of road pricing and mileage on the price of goods in the hundreds ofth percent range are moving: in construction, for example, at 0.27 percent, in the chemical industry 0.05 percent – that is, Marginalia! That is why there is certainly consensus that road pricing must be promoted. There will still be a corresponding consensus on the issue of mileage. The cost-reliance of the mileage would not only result in an increase in efficiency, but also in gross social product a relief. In this case, the EU has calculated a profit of 0.7 percent for gross social product! Transferred to Austria means specifically 10 billion schilling every year, transferred to the individual budget – I can document it again using this colorful graphic – around 1,500 p. [[the speaker shall present a graphic]] I quote here: "If the external costs of car transport are financed with higher revenue from road transport, this will relieve each person in employment by an average of 1,500 s per month." Source: EU Commission, Institute for Safe Living, Municipal Transport Planning Manual and VCÖ's own calculations. These 1,500 s speak for themselves, as I believe. This means that the cost-truth as the key to a better transport policy in the final effect is confirmed by figures, and that this is the only way to a sustainable transport policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4237	I call Mr Fink. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4258	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The alarming current accident data, the serious environmental damage, energy waste and rising costs make the traffic problem one of the key issues of the future. I am Steirer and do not need to point out that Styria is practically in the middle of Europe. Unfortunately, the opening of the Iron Curtain and the EU also have the negative side effect of increasing traffic to a particular extent. We must therefore, in principle, avoid transport, shift it and make it ecologically, because transport will also become one of the biggest environmental challenges of our time. Transport is usually not self-interest, but only means for the purpose. With artificial congestion and stops to make traffic more difficult, therefore, there can be no sensible transport avoidance, but is a smooth dispassion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any case, the existing capacity on the rail and road must be used intelligently. But that would not be enough: What is urgently needed is the implementation of important transport infrastructure projects. I should like to highlight briefly the problems of Styria in the railway sector: The Styria and with her the Graz Economic Area are very worried. The most important and most up-to-date infrastructure in rail transport is the Semmering Base Tunnel. Transport infrastructure is one of the most important conditions for securing and developing new location quality in Styria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Sigl.]] The new South Railway with the Semmering Base Tunnel and also with the Koralm Tunnel are therefore indispensable for the southern Länder such as the Styria and Carinthia. However, they are equally important as a trans-European high-performance line in a rail network that wants to be competitive with the road. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Say this to Mr Pröll!]] We know that without tunnel construction there is a danger that the powerful transport routes will pass us. It threatens us to pass through Austria through the other trans-European networks via Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia and Slovenia. The Federal Capital of Vienna, which should be an important European network hub, would also be pushed away from transport and economic policy. However, the financing of this tunnel must not be made dependent on the experiment that has never been tested, which is referred to as the three letters PPP – Private Public Partnership. The Styria requires the same financing as other similar projects: whether it is railway tunnels on the west railway, whether it be the freight transport of a state capital – in St. Pölten the costs are similar – or road construction projects in Austria. This principle must be respected by the Federal Government, by the Federal Chancellor, by the Minister of Transport and by the Minister of Finance in the decision announced at the end of November. If PPP financing is not achieved, public funding, as is the case with other projects, must be carried out by the federal government. The Federal Government's investment decisions related to and in accordance with the Rail Infrastructure Act are an important signal – as are the statements of EU Transport Commissioner Neil Kinnock. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not for or against one, two or three federal states, but it is about Austria's economic location – and also about the future of Styria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4314	The next speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. Mr deputies, you have indicated a 10 minute voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4335	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fink! I did not really want to address the Semmering base tunnel today, because, I think, there are other areas in the budget. But I have to mention two things. First: It is truly economic naïve to argue that it will be better economically in the Styria when the tunnel is built, because it really does not depend on a hole through the mountain, whether an economic location gets better or worse. To this end, other framework conditions need to be created. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Building roads under different conditions!]] Secondly, Mr Fink, you should agree in your group, because there is a letter from Mr Vice-Kanzler Schüssel, in which it is said that construction of the tunnel is only possible if it is financed privately. [[Abg. Parnigoni: PPP! Co-financed!]] They want something else again. I would be pleased if I once heard an opinion on what the ÖVP really wants in this area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni, I think we should agree that the 1998 transport budget is no longer quite comparable with that of previous years, since many outlays have already been made. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Please? About what?]] I would, however, like to stress that these are outlays and not privatisations. It is, at least in part, nothing but the fact that debt or expenditure on the budget, which should normally be included in the budget, is now no longer included in it and therefore a small budget gap is being carried out, Mr President! [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's a premise! This is a dizziness – also insulting!]] That's not an injunction. It is! I cannot share your euphoria either that some infrastructure investment would be financed by the SCHIG. I would share it if it were meaningful investments – I will come back to that. I'd share your euphoria if this SIG could eventually repay their debts. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Of course!]] This SchIG is a debt company and an invention of this government coalition, which is truly adventurous. A society has been founded, debt is taken up on this society, knowing from the outset that these debts are never repaid. Mr Parnigoni. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Mr President, I should like to thank One thing should be clear to us because I'm seeing so many young people in the gallery: Our children and children need to pay back what is now taken up extra-budgetically in debt, but we must not live at the expense of our children! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Our children and children will drive on these tracks, so they can finance a part!]] In the transport budget, however, the levying of the public services of the post is also included in the amount of 1.4 billion schilling, which is all right. But it would have been nice if you had found an answer to our written budget request, Mr Federal Minister. We wanted to know in detail what amounts this is about, or we wanted to know from you the control objectives in this area. They have not been able or willing to answer us. There is, therefore, once again the danger that economic action will not always be taken in this area, namely in the context of the remuneration of public services. I know that there must be public services, for example at the post office and at the train, but I demand that public services should also be billed economically. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have the experience that this is not always the case with the train. We only need to look at the report on public services, and it is noted that costs are increasing, and there is no way of talking about an economic billing. The total area of public transport is no longer in the transport budget, but we have to go through almost the entire budget in order to determine what the public authorities actually receive in support, in grants, in investment et cetera. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is the educational purpose so you can read the entire budget!]] It is interesting to note that the government coalition is always claiming that there is an ÖBB reform. This was once again a piper, like most of the reforms of this government coalition, because it is noted that in 1998 the ÖBB will receive 45 billion schilling from the state, admittedly with the extra-budgetary financing, with the extra-budgetary investments. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's just your interpretation!]] I'm holding it. It's more than ever. In my view, it is not a future perspective that, despite an ÖBB reform, ÖBB needs more and more money from the state. There should be a change in this area. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But it is clear that this has developed in this way, because there are no investment concepts in the transport sector in Austria. As a result, there has been repeated misinvestment. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You're talking abstractly! Tell us exactly a few misinvestments!]] There is still no prioritisation for investment required. There are also different laws that we have repeatedly demanded. It is therefore to be feared, Mr President, that in the future too, misinvestments in the area of transport infrastructure will continue to be carried out, as did past misinvestments, Mr President, which you and your government coalition are responsible for. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Tell us one! Can you say one?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: An example!]] You have failed to invest billions, and that is what you must live with, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You do not know an example of a false investment!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni! It is interesting that the government does not set up any activities in the area of priority lines for infrastructure projects. Mr President, I should like to thank The Liberals' requests are either rejected in committee or not dealt with at all. You would have had the opportunity to show yesterday that you are really interested in a discussion. You could have agreed yesterday to our deadline request for local transport financing. I would have believed that you were interested in a discussion. I assume that you are not interested because, in fact, you have no proposals for solutions. That is the sadness, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] After more than a decade of government coalition, we can only find that the Bank was active in this government in the field of social-democratic transport ministers, strikers, climate, schools, and one. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Successful!]] They were all successful promises, but unfortunately they didn't keep anything, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser and Abg. Parnigoni: Give an example!]] None of these Federal Ministers kept the promises he made. No one has brought anything together in this area. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr President, I should like to thank Take good care! I have asked the Committee what the Federal Minister, now in office, says about the promises made by his predecessors. I heard an answer there that was very interesting to me. The Federal Minister has said that he is not responsible for the promises made by his predecessors. [[Abg. Böhacker: Child-moving is that!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Parnigoni! What does that mean? – For over ten years, we have had a government coalition in which Social Democratic ministers are responsible, and the current Minister of Transport says he is not responsible for the promises of his predecessors Strings, Climate, Schools. What does that mean? – It means that he is not even loyal to his current Federal Chancellor! But perhaps Mr Verkehrsminister has already suggested that the German Chancellor's climate promises a lot and holds nothing. Probably Mr. Minister says One of the reasons why: I am not responsible for the promises of my predecessor. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Federal Minister! I would like to raise one more question, namely the debt level in metro co-financing. The budget includes 1.5 billion schilling each year. But we know that more is being installed. We asked you – also in writing – how high the current debt in this area is. You didn't give a reply. You have not said that the debt level is so high, but you have just referred to the prefinancing framework of 8 billion schilling. As you have not answered, I must assume that the pre-financing framework of 8 billion has already been used to a large extent. This means, however, that other billions of schilling debts, which actually belong to a budget, are hidden elsewhere, so that the budget truth is not given again. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I would like to say: The transport policy of this Federal Government has no future prospects. The transport budget is not true because outsourcings have taken place. It is a swindle budget, as is the total budget of this Federal Government. The debt level is much higher than stated in the budget, the deficit is much higher than stated in the budget, and it is really a pity that this government coalition lives carelessly at the expense of the next generations.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4627	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4648	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I am of course unable, after the relatively many previous speakers, to deal with every detail that has been so to speak critically or in agreement with me here. However, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to discuss budget chapters 14 and 65 in order to make some fundamental comments. I will then also address some of the critical comments. First of all, let me say, in principle: That is what we are taking up as the Federal Government – this is generally true, and it applies specifically to the two budget chapters for which I bear responsibility – is that we have to work for the opportunities of people in this country today and tomorrow, and we are doing so with the budgetary approaches that we are discussing today. We have expanded both budget approaches, and both are about securing opportunities for the people of Austria in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the field of science and research policy: Let me present some of the principles I want to follow and which I have so far followed. First: We are in favour of an open education system, without restrictions on access, i.e. without tuition fees and without general admission examinations, because we believe that the education system must be open to everyone. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] We also advocate a variety of offers as well as a differentiated offer, for one side-by-side – for instance in the higher education sector – of specialized universities, universities and universities with specific tasks. We stand for a clear differentiation in these institutions, in responsibility for students and their opportunities after these studies have been completed. This means, in order to put it into practice, that in the field of universities, we clearly support the need to provide qualified vocational training on the one hand and to offer it on the other. In essence, it is a matter of conveying method and system security in the respective subject and of reducing and reducing the overload of one or another study offer with facts from today, where one does not know whether these facts will not be outdated in five years. In this respect, the University Law on Studies, which has been adopted this year and enters into force, is also established. Secondly, In addition to specific vocational training, we also advocate a universal education claim in the field of universities, because we believe that it is necessary, especially in the case of an open education system and especially in the case of the non-restrictive freedom of choice of studies by the individual students, to provide a sufficient general qualification, which, in the case of uncertain professional prospects in a specific area, may also be allowed to work in other areas. We do not want to burden the graduates as an unnecessary risk of going through university studies. The universities must also meet their universal education requirements. The third thing we need to ensure in universities is that students have the opportunity and find a suitable offer to study cross-border. That is also to say, but not only – I see Mr Lukesch nagging – that we need to improve the opportunities to go abroad and study there – we will also have to support this with concrete proposals in the context of the funding of studies – but it also means that we need to increase the opportunities of students to talk across the subject borders. We also need to improve the skills of students in terms of their language skills and make better offers for them, because it is not only about the opportunities of students but also about the opportunities of all other people in this country who are to benefit from them best trained. Perhaps also a comment on the field of art universities, because this debate has also been very lively recently. In the field of art universities, we strongly support the transfer to the art universities of those proven structures which the University Organisation Act 1993 provides to the extent that they are applicable. The same applies to the field of the University Study Act. Of course, we want to achieve equal opportunities for students at art universities with the opportunities of students at other universities and universities. We do not, however, want to say that everything is treated equally. There are differentiation needs. I am well aware that, for example, training as an academic painter – Mr Krüger has pointed out in his speech – or that composer has quite different requirements than science-oriented studies in art universities. Of course, it is not about how one of the commentators wrote in the last few days that we want to introduce primarily dissertations for trumpetists, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is about our taking responsibility as well. We must understand that many of those who go to the art school to study a specific artistic subject there, for example, have very, very small opportunities – if we take the composer's example again – to emerge from this school as Beethoven, for example, because it is not a year of Beethoven and Mozart. For these students we need a supplementary qualification, which allows them to find a chance even after their studies in dealing with their lives in our society. They must be offered more than just the close technical orientation. In this direction, the reform is to go. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me make a comment on the subject of vocational colleges. We consider this approach to be excellent, and I am therefore totally indebted to this approach, because I am not the father of this approach, and I have already found the concept to do so. I think it's a great concept. The technical universities are a new university offer that is being developed in a way – in order to say it in new German – bottom up. This system is essentially concerned with meeting industry needs and regional needs. In line with this regional demand and industry demand, concepts for study programmes are being developed. This leads us to achieve a more practical orientation than we otherwise have in the post-secondary field. This leads to direct contacts between the students and those who are later their potential employers during their studies. This improves the ability of future graduates to talk with their potential future employers, which improves their chance of working, at jobs. That's a real concept. The second point I would like to make is that the internal organization of these vocational colleges has also been made useful, in a direction which ensures that a vintage culture comes about, a much stronger social relationship between students. I think that's crucial. It is not only a matter of exercising, learning and learning the responsibility of the people there, but also of expressing social competence as the goal of study. The people we train are supposed to be able to deal with the problems of today together with others. For this, these high schools are here, and we will continue to develop them. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] High house! We have a very clear goal in science and research policy. This goal is to improve the opportunities of people living and working in Austria. To this end, a practice-oriented, sufficiently generalistic training is needed to give people a sufficient sense in high schools that the problems must only be solved jointly and in cooperative effort. We will give them the necessary material equipment for this, and we will benefit the freedom areas guaranteed by the study to give young people responsible and accompanying the opportunity to learn which they need, namely the opportunity to find themselves and be responsible in freedom and also in uncertain situations. This is our educational goal, and we use resources for that. I can now say a few words on the Transport chapter. I am aware that I cannot present to you today and here the entire spectrum of the resort, because I also do not want to use the time available to me for a fee. The subject of traffic. As already pointed out in principle, this is essentially about opportunities and policies for the benefit of the weaker and the disadvantaged in the transport sector. Which groups are these? – For example, it is a question of pursuing a transport policy which not only shows responsibility, but also implements it in practical actions, such as those that are preoccupied with transport, especially passively, and which often cannot be sufficiently opposed to excessive burden. It is also a matter of showing responsibility to those who are not among those who themselves have or can benefit from transport. These are in particular children who depend on public transport, in particular many still women who, even if there is a car in the family, usually do not drive with it because the man is driving it, and in particular there are elderly people who are often no longer able to drive, or who do not have the income to afford a car. For these groups of people – and that is the majority of the Austrians! – we have to make policies to ensure opportunities that can also be grasped for them. We make politics for these people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Why do the sideways become more expensive?- Oh, my God!]] I would like to add that. It is also a matter of ensuring that those people who are potentially passively affected by a less responsible or irresponsible behaviour of other road users are helped. It is about making a policy for these people for greater security. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already had relatively strong discussions on the issue of what measures should be taken to increase safety, especially in road transport. One thing we should always consider: This is a policy that is designed to effectively reduce the number of victims – and that is usually innocent victims. It is not so important to carry out fundamental disputes and dogmas, but it is essentially a matter of introducing effective measures because each individual dead person is too much! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] One last comment on an area that is in itself between the science and the transport sector, namely the telecoms sector. He has been mentioned briefly today. It is also about opportunities in this area. It is mainly about location opportunities for those who are economically active in Austria. Of course, it is also about the opportunities of the individual consumer taking advantage of the telephone or data transmission. However, it is also a matter of ensuring that Austria remains attractive as a location for industrial or service services. This is about opening up both the fixed network and a variety of communications services in the area of radio-supported communication. Short: During this year, we have taken significant steps to open up and create additional opportunities and better performance and are currently creating the basis for liberalisation in 1998, which will also have to lead to a clear approval of offers and to an improvement in performance. From the moment that competition begins in this area, we will be able to expect the benefits to be better and cheaper. I don't think that's a bad perspective either. In this policy direction, we also see clear priorities in terms of budgeting and clear priorities as regards our future policy. I think that even those opposition speakers who have called this into question must admit that we have never used so much resources for better structures in this area. We are for a shift mainly of heavy traffic to the rails. [[Abg. Wabl: Has the ratio of motorway to rail improved?]] We are therefore in favour of expanding the infrastructure that is needed; many times it is necessary to create the prerequisite for this – think of the lower Inntal – to create an attractive traffic for professional commuters, especially where it is concerned with the elimination of capacity constraints. We therefore strongly support the development of rail infrastructure, and we are also committed to making it more flexible and cost-effective in terms of rail supply. But we need to create conditions for this; we are in the process of doing so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Why have the sideways become more expensive?- Oh, my God!]] High house! I am aware that yesterday we had a relatively detailed discussion on the next question. I would like to say: We will be presenting a first draft for the reorganisation of local transport financing during the course of this year. This is also a clear question of the optimal representation of the interests of the commuters, of putting a focus in favour of the commuters. That is to say, it is also about a rational use of resources and not primarily about the interests of the transport service providers. This is a question in which we must bring several interests into one. Our heart is clearly on the part of those who have to use and use public transport every day. Their economic interests and performance interests are the objective of the forthcoming legislation, which will be presented in this year. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We are, in order to address this point again, of course also for clear and clear steps in favour of greater responsibility in road transport, i.e. also in favour of increased road safety. We will continue this work in the coming weeks and months. We know that this is a difficult issue, which is sometimes dealt with quite emotionally. At the same time, however, we know – and I think that should be our guiding principle – that we bear a great responsibility for each individual case in which people are injured or even killed. I come to the conclusion of these basic remarks. The budget approaches of chapters 14 and 65, as I believe, take into account the priorities outlined by me. We were able to achieve a significant increase in approaches. On the one hand, we have clearly taken account of the point of economy and, on the other, we have set clear priorities. That's what I'm calling myself. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me reply briefly to some rather oppositional comments. I was a little surprised that Mr Krüger pointed out the Greek-Roman tradition of universities and, in particular, of Jus studies. In fact, I am lacking in the archaeology of study. I think we should rather bear in mind that the universities, as we have them before us, do not have a Greek-Roman tradition, but rather a medieval tradition. However, this does not change the fact that there is a need to think about whether, perhaps, other practical vocational training is appropriate to the universal education claim which the universities have to fulfil in my firm conviction. I've never suggested moving the Jus study to colleges. However, I have said that if universities do not realise on the occasion of the implementation of the University Study Act that what matters is, on the one hand, thinking and working ability is in a specific field – in this case the legal sciences – and on the other hand is a universal education claim, and if this is not taken into account, then this study at the university has not lost anything. That's what I'm still standing for today. Mr Krüger also referred to the Academy at Schillerplatz and the training as an academic painter. Deputies! Of course, that you, as an opposition politician, criticize the Minister of Science, is your right. However, on the same occasion as the chairman of the Scientific Committee, I find it remarkable that you forget that there is something like university autonomy. You should note, at least, that those decisions that have fallen at Schillerplatz have been based on the given and granted university autonomy, and to this I acknowledge, even though I regret that painting has now been under pressure there. I too believe that painting is one of the fields of training that must be placed in an academy. But with the step towards greater autonomy for universities, we must confess that this area can no longer be made official, but only in a discourse between the political leaders and those responsible at the respective university or university. That's what I'm calling myself. In any case, I don't want to lift the autonomy if this is your intention. Mrs Gredler! You suggested you should touch the professors harder. – If you want to encourage this, I miss out on your proposals for legislation. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the government bank!]] I believe that the existing laws are sufficient and that the presence of 'outliers' also addressed by Mrs Petrovic does not prove that the system is ill. Mrs Petrovic! "Outliers" can't be avoided now. We don't deliberately produce them, as you put it. But I admit, as an opposition politician, that must be the case. I thank you, on the other hand, for your vehement belief that social permeability and access to universities have actually improved since the 1970s. That's how I see it. But I think the way we still have to go in this area is still quite far. We have taken a few very decisive measures, which also have an impact, particularly in the field of the establishment of technical colleges. There we find much more pre-employee beings, there we find much more people coming from the lower income and social classes. We will continue this path. It is not a question of whether we are saying that all of this has been in vain, but it is a matter of continuing this path clearly and with imagination and expertise, because we are in favour of an open system of education. We will take the necessary steps to do so. To the driver's license law. It has been pointed out that individual authorities in the countries have been very excited about the fact that they did not know how to apply it in November. Mr Kukacka! You've noticed that. However, it should be made clear that, first, the adoption of those regulations, which require the entry into force of the law, was not possible before the entry into force. Secondly, all those authorities that began to shout out loud in November, how infinitely difficult it is, were already familiar with the corresponding regulations in July. They didn't yell at that time. I think that a responsible interplay between central and decentralised bodies can look something different. And in truth, the chaos that has occasionally been complained has not occurred at all. I would like to say the following about the protection provisions, without pouring oil into the fire again: If we confess that we are also responsible to the weak in transport – and I am doing so – then we must also make sure that those who, due to their age or other characteristics, have signs that they may not be able to fully meet the requirements of transport, look at it for a second time or carry out a check. If this is possible cheaper than it is currently being offered, then I am ready to do so immediately. But I'm against saying: Let us just drive them, because the price is paid by the young people themselves, and we will have the responsibility for it. That is why we are also in favour of a traffic-psychological investigation. Finally, Mr Rosenstingl. They have criticized us for burdening huge debt without considering what that means for the future. – Deputies! We're thinking about this very well. Today's railway infrastructure was built 100 years ago. The railway infrastructure we are now building will last for the next 100 years. I think it is right to ensure, even in the interests of today's taxpayers, that the financing is extended to a period corresponding to the use, and that can certainly be ensured with our conception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4785	The next speaker is Mr Edler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4807	High house! Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A short replica on colleagues Rosenstingl: You could have given your speech to the previous budget here. You have repeated what you said last year. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Rosenstingl! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You weren't there last year!]] You said that was a continuation of scandalization, a swindler budget. And you're turning to the youth. – We are investing in the future so that this youth has a chance! [[Abg. Rosenstingl: Honesty!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Last year there was no budget at all! That's been two years ago!]] And precisely these investments in rail infrastructure bring us back around 60 percent of the return on the way. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to make a few points. The main point has already been raised by the Federal Minister. I think we are on the right track to shape Austrian transport policy ecologically and forward-lookingly. We also have a stronger influence in Brussels and we have to work lobbyism there, ladies and gentlemen. But if we do not appear closed in Brussels on the subject of transport policy, we will certainly not be taken seriously. The different statements of the coalition partner, namely Kukacka and Fink, show this. I am with Fink and cannot represent the line of colleagues Kukacka. I believe that the Austrian Federal Government needs a single line in transport policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In short, to the railways and their services. They have already been mentioned positively today. Ladies and gentlemen! These major reforms and outlays are certainly painful, not only for staff representatives but, of course, especially for the thousands of colleagues. However, they are willing to take part in these reforms. Over the last four years, 10,000 colleagues have been saved at the Federal Railways. But we want to go along with this path in order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by rail transport in transport policy in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We have the opportunity to discuss the railways' positions on their duty due to an emergency in the afternoon. The presentation in the last few days that the railways had a special position was unscrupulous. You have an equivalent service right, which is legally insured, and there are individual contracts. Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing has already been said in advance: The railways' inputs, which move by around 1 billion schilling each year, must first be brought in by others. I just wanted to mention that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal. And I say it again: This is the right way for an ecologically acceptable transport policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4883	The next speaker was Mr Graf. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4904	Minister! Dear friend, colleague Edler! You should have had a different introduction, because last year, Mr Rosenstingl didn't give a budget speech at all and you didn't, because last year there was no budget to negotiate. We had a double budget two years ago! - I just wanted to say that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to return to science policy and specifically to highlight an area that is unpleasant to you – I know that – namely the Austrian high school. Minister! You have said that in your area of education, you want to put emphasis on the importance of education by the government programme cast in figures. I would have expected Austria's high schooling to focus on education at yesterday's Central Committee meeting, in view of the forced contributions that will be made there. Unfortunately, we have to note that there is now another close-to-the-out organisation on the row – the ÖVP-near Blacks, the AG – and that this ÖVP-near organization is actually playing the same game as her predecessor, this far-left group, which was in power, including the Liberal Student Forum. You even perfect this system, and I'll explain it to you. For education, the Austrian University of Applied Sciences provides for an amount of 210 000 S per year. If you look at the actual effort of the lesbian and gay areas, you will learn that there are 140 000 S of expenditure. The anti-racism campaign, carried out together with the association "Helping Hands", is spent on the material expenditure of 548,000 S. Imagine that! In addition, this is achieved by a democratically unauthorized association, by the "Helping Hands". For the anti-racism hotline, 100 000 S telephone costs are provided. 100 000 S Phone costs are a batch of money! I do not think it is necessary to have so many active telephone calls, because there is nothing to pay for passive telephone calls in Austria. We will have to take care of the amount of hidden resources behind it. On the other hand, I am disappointed that education at the university – including high schooling itself – is seen almost equivalent to that of lesbians and gays who are not even able to speak. – And that under an ÖVP-near leadership! This is something we must note. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I have the impression at all that the Austrian high school is becoming a self-service shop for marginal groups, and this is still heavily supported by ÖVP-near AG, against the interests of the students. Wrong signals are simply set. Yesterday it was decided that the compulsory contribution to the ÖH should be increased to 370 S; I believe that we can discuss it. But if you look at what this money is spent on, these contributions from the students, then I have to say, you are going to be bad at it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, the ÖVP-near organization requires that staff costs be increased. So you're gonna be all right. The unit compensation increases to 55,330 S per unit range leader. Of course, the lesbian and gay sector, which does not represent a unit – as has already been said – also receives 200 000 S. – The emphasis is always on ÖVP-near. Special projects will be supported by 900 000 S, with one third exclusively providing lesbian, gay and female projects. Nothing is foreseen for the general student or for those who wish to complete their studies in the shortest time in order to be able to enter into a performance competition. We must also note that. The fact that the ÖH has been asleep for years also shows yesterday's application, which has been submitted and also decided on, which calls for the UniStG to be modernised. We had hardly put it into effect, it was supposed to be renewed again, because it was not properly dealt with. One would like to abolish the simplification that has been introduced, namely that one only has to register once again and that one has to prove his study success every three semesters. The ÖH, which is so opposed to the bureaucracy, above all the AG, now wants to have a semester inscription again. A request – that has particularly disappointed me – that was made yesterday by the ÖVP-near action community – that was added once more – and that we will have to distribute so that we know in which political direction the blacks are going. "The Central Committee of the Austrian University Schools welcomes the project of the Austrian Lesbian and Swiss Forum on the legal anchoring of hetero- and homosexual partnerships and sees in the raised demand the opportunity to create a basis for equal modern life." – I am surprised that the ÖVP is watching its organization stand up for exactly what the ÖVP is always here and is right. I do not know whether these are preparatory measures to change some things. Minister! A word about your high school project because you want to regroup the universities into colleges. Minister! I have the impression – Mr Krüger has already told you from which political corner you obviously grasp your ideas – that you want to introduce the entire school on university ground. You can't do it at school, so you want to try it at the university. They want to achieve a levelling down between the University of Applied Sciences and the University, which I do not understand in itself. They want to separate teaching and research, and that is the wrong way. This is Marxist thought, and we will control you very closely. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With this step you would also have the pleasant accompanying effect – and this is probably the deeper sense – that there are "small" tuition fees for most colleges. As far as the university is concerned, you are always talking about the fact that students should be free to access them. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: At which colleges are there tuition fees? There's no one!]] If you really want to alienate various universities at professional universities, you will create the legal requirement for canceling school fees or tuition fees. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is what he says!]] But that's what we're gonna stop you from doing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4981	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5003	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Time is advanced, and traffic is mixed with science. I hold a few positions – not least due to the discussion – for the ÖVP. In recent times, the discussion has emerged as to whether the universities should not be emptied by "slags" or "facts". I do not think this discussion and contributions of this kind are particularly helpful because they imply that waste and slag would exist there already. What can at best be meant by this is what the Federal Minister has done in his contribution that we cannot rely on facts alone in the teaching. Ladies and gentlemen! Facts that are now available are the building blocks to penetrate the method system. And if I negate these, I negate an important factor, an important thought. I recall that Kant – one of the most stringent thinkers in this context – said that concepts are blind without regard and that vision is empty without terms. That is, I cannot enter the world of concepts, into the system world, without producing facts. I would ask that this be taken into account in the future discussion on universities and study plans. I would also like to hold a few positions, namely that the People's Party has a clear relationship with the separation of colleges and universities. This is particularly true in the direction of Mrs Petrovic, who appears to be Minister One has confused with Luke or the respective persons. The People's Party has always been the one who has clearly said that the colleges are a wonderful system to give informed, professional, professional answers, and that universities always have and have a universal education claim. I would ask you not to make a mixture here, not to make a legend. I also believe that in this context we have to use a more differentiated discourse, especially when it comes to setting marks in science and research. I also note, on behalf of my group and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, that it was that I was and was the one who stood for differentiated training and a differentiated education system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This will not change in the future. This can also be well explained in sociological terms. The more differentiated society cannot be "placed" or trained in a unified system, nor can it operate reasonably. I therefore believe that the argument that teachers are part of the vocational colleges, because there is only one service provider, is wrong; for this reason, because there should be no numerus clausus and because one cannot guarantee a graduate of a diploma course – whether in history, art, mathematics or chemistry – even a job. It would therefore be missing to initiate such a guarantee discussion. I also think that not only in 1996 – the year of lifelong learning – we should have remembered this importance and felt oriented. That is, we will have to learn a day of life and face teachers for a lifetime. That is why professional fields are created out of this new claim, dear Erwin Niederwieser! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, we should not have a structural discussion under the wrong conditions. Just a little note: Keywords: Educational academies are much more practical. It's a schmair. Why? – First of all, the Educational Academy, a school institution, says of itself, it needs a level raising, a "favorability" – that is, authors themselves in an article. In addition, there are wonderful conditions and conditions. There is a teacher-student ratio of 1 : 5 to 1 : 10. Federal Minister! If you guarantee us this in teacher training at universities, I have no problem at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So I'll get together. The technical universities are ideal institutions for specific studies and demand based on a changing economic situation. University studies cannot be converted into vocational colleges by association. And if the universal education claim at the universities is not redeemed, we can say: We take this offer away and carry it over to technical colleges!, but we can also sue what is to be done there in university education. Our way is to sue this so that truth and Enlightenment reign. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to the conclusion. Minister! Very short to the art universities: The discussion is under way, as you yourself have said. Our principle is: Give one a chance. Give Gottfried a chance of one, and give Caspar a chance of one. At this level, the discussion must move. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, and my words: A more research-friendly and science-friendly climate can only be achieved if we do not discriminate against research and science and do not consider it to be indispensable. President Welzig – he has already been quoted today – has said that in Austria we have a very good culture of culture, but we do not have a scientific culture. That is to be agreed. – We are for full spiritual employment. Let us work on this with the new budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5084	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Mr deputies, you have a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5105	Minister! Dear, lonely scientific spokesperson from SPÖ in the first row! As you have praised the universities in your speech... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] Meanwhile, the interest is "exorbitant", before he was alone. It is always at lunchtime that a little more people are here. You rightly praised the universities. The achievements at universities are very good, but not because of budgetary policy and not because of this government, but despite this budgetary policy and despite this government. Col. Lukesch celebrates the UniStG as a success. This has to be shown, however, because the university study law has only been adopted, and the training plans are still in progress in line with the old study plans. As he addresses the private funding of the vocational colleges, I must say: It's the possibility, but it's only theoretical. In practice, the specialized universities are still largely dependent on the umbilical cord of federal funding. I am entirely of your opinion if you say that the national bank reserves for research should be used. We would be pleased if at least the privatisation revenue or the expected privatisation revenue for research and technology projects were to be committed. As the Minister said earlier that he had done so much for the telecoms structure, I must say that the area of postal and telecoms in particular has been lagging behind by the defence of monopolies, particularly by the Socialists, in telecommunications and telecommunications applications. Especially at universities, the application of telecommunications is partly "stone-temporary". Ladies and gentlemen! I am now coming to my real subject that I have done. They are trying to provide the science budget with the attribute of an increase, but that is actually not the case. If you compare the figures with those from 1996, you can see that an increase of 697 million is included, but if you only take into account the additional expenditure for renting the BIG amounting to 768 million, you notice that a negative balance comes out. If you still reduce the demand we have for the colleges, then a strong negative balance of over 430 million remains for the rest of the research area. It is therefore not a question of increasing research expenditure, it is not a question of a research initiative! Now I have to come back to the BIG again. You have written in the answer to the question about these increases for the BIG the university budget is not interested that you will receive this from the Minister of Finance as a matter of urgency. This does not lead to a reduction. I do not agree with this opinion. I believe that, as these exorbitant increases for the BIG go through all the budget chapters, we should check once if we are not feeding a new Hydra on the budget breast, which should be cut off in good time. Perhaps the Court of Auditors should also deal with the BIG in good time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You must also include the BÜG, the Budget Overrun Act!]] – I have very little speaking time. Now to the process of awarding the technology billions. Minister! Do you know which budget issue contains the technology billions? - I didn't find her. It is included in the 51/cash management budget under "other precautions". It is therefore included there because you have not been able to agree with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and all other bodies involved on the competences and distribution of these technology billions. That's why she's still inside as a complete package. And that's exactly what we don't need, because she won't get out with it. Minister! Finally, I would like to say that we have a lot of good people, one of the most successful is Professor Tichy. He said on the 11th. November 1997: However, many government tasks, especially those for education and research, have a positive impact on growth. – This is what he said under the heading: New findings on budgetary policy. That's why I'm wondering: If such capacity is claimed in Austria, why do we still spend so little money on research and development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5168	Mrs Karlsson is now speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a three-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5189	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! A quarter of a minute I have to take time for Mr Graf's colleague. Mr Graf has mocked my friend Pepi Edler and said that no budget was discussed last year. I do not know where Mr Graf has been for weeks, he has probably weakened Parliament, because we discussed the budget very well last year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosenstingl: What is it?]] – The budgets 1996, 1997! Don't you remember? Where are you? You obviously do not take your duties here in Parliament seriously enough! In 1995 we failed to draw up the budget and have re-elected. In 1996, we discussed. You no longer know that because Parliament is wretched to you. You don't care what's going on here. They only want to play theatre and reduce everything. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My group, which has not yet been said, supports in particular the request for a report on the social situation of students. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's embarrassing, so nonsense!]] That's not embarrassing! They must be embarrassing if you do not even know what you discussed last year. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is embarrassing, Mrs. Karlsson! That's a nonsense what you're talking about!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Where is your group so important?]] You didn't even know what you were discussing. – But I need my speaking time for something else. We support the proposal concerning the social situation of students. I believe it is also important to work out the social situation and study conditions of the working students. That is why I would like to talk briefly about a system which, unfortunately, is not very advanced in Austria, namely the system of remote studies. For me, remote studies are the future, including in the sense of the development of multimedia learning, also in the sense of information technology. The future is not in the presence-university, where 30, 100 or 1,000 students sit at their feet, depending on financial restrictions. The future will be in a European distance training course, in which the best scientists in Europe and the world will be able to obtain the best higher education with additional virtual classes, discussion forums, mailboxes, everyone, including the student in the Waldviertel or Bregenzerwald. In addition, if necessary, personal contact is provided. That will be our future! In this European and worldwide knowledge framework, we should move in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5285	Mr Mentil is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5306	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Your colleagues know that I am fully committed to the rails, because I am convinced that this is the only opportunity to tackle our ecological problems and to develop a transport policy that is meaningful and future-looking. However, I do not believe, Minister, that the security of opportunity you have previously quoted from the Bank of Ministers can be guaranteed in this way. How does this guarantee of opportunity look, for example, when one imagines today that a driver has no cell phone and cannot be reached from the station in the short term? – This is complemented by your statement, which reads: We will now create an infrastructure for the next 100 years. I have to tell you: This confirms that you have not invested anything in your company over the past 100 years. That means you didn't keep the infrastructure up-to-date, you didn't invest regularly. Imagine an entrepreneur doesn't invest much in his company for 100 years. What will this look like, or how long will it remain entrepreneurs? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The restructuring or outsourcing of competence due to the 1996 change in the law allows You are, of course, only a limited responsibility. It would be unfair to beat you for it and blame you for sitting on a mess – this can be absolutely said and claimed in the field of transport policy. If we use the 65 budget chapter, we must note that, due to structural changes, the figures are not comparable to those of the previous year. This is a thing of impossibility, one cannot compare the budget figures in the transport sector with those in recent years. In the area of the budget, you have seen from expenditure on the railway infrastructure, on interest rates, i.e. in debt outsourcing, speak SCHIG and ASFINAG. In the case of public service, you have the opportunity to cover, in the field of public transport, private railways, mail, transport associations, and then we are already done. This means that the logistics or the structurally damaged ministry – why structural damage? because you do not have the competence for an all-encompassing transport event in Austria – is reflected in a really unpleasant form. That's going to be You will not be able to achieve the goal you have set from the government bank. Let us, for example, take a closer look at the distribution of mail and train. There you have almost no access, if not no more competence. The post office is almost owned by the Minister of Finance, so we have to live. Minister! Where you have skills – in the railway sector – it goes below and beyond. The mourning game for the Semmering base tunnel is now known worldwide and stage mature. I wonder if you as a minister have already thought about how much it costs Austrian taxpayers daily due to the liabilities, what has been managed there since millions of amounts, because Mrs Klasnicek – or as she is called – and Mr Pröll cannot understand about the mountain or because one is unable to coordinate and make a policy that enables a speedy decision. [[Abg. Steibl: A Member of Parliament does not even know the name of a head of state!]] [[Further calls.]] Griefing HL-AG: You have distributed your former ÖBB managers and your posts higher, now they drive their beings in the HL-AG area. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I bet with you, Minister: You'll get these HL-AG events! I'll give you my word on that. They're not without, believe me, I know what I'm talking about. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If you are also looking around in the field of competence of public service, you can see the tragedy of dual track: We still have not achieved that rail and bus do not compete. We still have the problem that we do not know how to finance the buses. The communities say they have no money. Subroutines keyword: Substructure or infrastructure of the secondary railways are partly in catastrophic condition. I quote Ober-Grafendorf–Wieselburg, but there are also other sideways with the same problems. Mr Sigl will confirm this to me. In the last consequence, promotions of 3 billion schillings will remain available to you; Mr Rosenstingl has already talked about this. I am particularly interested in how you deal with the more expenditure in the metro sector – for which you have the responsibility and which you have to bear the corresponding obligations – how you will explain this to us in the future and how it will be covered. In conclusion: I wish you a ministry in which the Minister of Transport has competence and can make transport policy so that he can make it comprehensive. But I think we're not going to see that with this government and with this politician anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5368	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5389	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Hermann Mentil! A clarification and correction: The lady's name is Mrs. Klasnic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Yes! That's her name!]] In my remarks, I would like to focus on a little bit on medical study. If we do not do something soon, we will lose the connection in this area – that is what the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Vienna, said, Professor Schütz. He went on to say: The Study Plan 1905 is still valid. A subject canon from the Imperial era will be taught. – That's what he wrote on 3 March. January 1997 in the "Salzburger Nachrichten". This year, the University Study Act will also enter into force at the Faculty of Medicine, and a reform will therefore be introduced. The politicians no longer have the responsibility to take over, but it will be at the individual faculties how they will design the study plans by 2002. The goal is clear: The study will become shorter, more modern and practical. It requires cross-disciplinary teaching, and above all it is recommended to upgrade the clinical subjects. At present, the theoretical subjects dominate. Central subjects such as cardiology – so heart disease –, gynecology and so on in medical studies only come to the fore in the last section, and that is actually the shortest section. For example, one might imagine: If the central nervous system is on the timetable, it could be illuminated from all sides: from the structure, from neurology, from the psychiatry, from the neurological rehabilitation, from neurosurgery and so on. At the same time, doctors should have to deal with patients sooner and more frequently. The innovations concern, among other things, – I would like to highlight this as a real achievement here – mandatory training on ethical issues. In medicine it is not only about what is possible, but also about what makes sense and what is reasonable for the patient, as well as the question of where the technical limits actually lie. Another significant extension is planned in the field of internships, but there are difficulties there. Minister! I would like to make a proposal on this: Is it not possible to take up the proposal, which the "F" repeatedly makes – I would like to support this proposal here – to open the state hospitals? – There are enough habilitators there – within two years 250 physicians have been habilitated at the Faculty of Medicine of Austria. There is a strong trend there to habilitate them only because they can later get a primary. The teaching and teaching have come into the background. But there is a chance to distribute to the state hospitals – in Salzburg, in Linz, in St. Pölten or in Feldkirch, everywhere where Habilitites are active – also the teaching, learning and internship. I would very much welcome that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to draw attention to this – because it bothered me very much when I read it – that there are 287 ordinary professors in the medical field, of which only 3 professors are women. This is a very sad matter, and one has to change something, especially because it is now exactly 100 years ago – it was 1897 – that Gabriele Possantner of Ehrenthal received his doctorate as the first woman in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. She was not allowed to study in Austria, but had to study in Switzerland, Zurich, where she received her diploma in 1893. It was not until 1897 that she received her doctorate due to an intervention by the emperor in Austria. For the Senate had declared in 1873 that teachers had to adapt to the ears of men, first to those of women, especially disciplined virgins. So women were not able to study at the time. Minister! I would like to point out something that has made me very sad personally. ==References== On January 27, 1997, Rieder called for his own medical university. August, Mr Minister, you have called for a technical college – a two-way twin who has two different ideological fathers. "The Minister's proposal is not worth the paper that has been devoted to this announcement" – that was then said by the rector of the University of Graz, Professor Konrad, who was already in the conversation as a SP science minister. He also said that your proposal was a "blow bubble". I think that research and teaching must be closely linked. Young people have to learn both, which is why I think the universities have their place. I think that the development of medical universities and faculties should go in this direction, and I hope that the new autonomous initiatives will be taken. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5441	The next item is the speech by Mr Hums. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5462	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! It is simply wrong for some opposition politicians to call investment in railway infrastructure a debt at the expense of young people. On the contrary: Not a green transport system, not to invest in the train, would be a gross debt to young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is the only way to secure Austria's economic location. We are safeguarding the environment through environmentally sound transport and we are helping considerably to increase road safety. The railways have also benefited very well from this investment. In recent years, new record performance in rail transport has been presented year after year in freight transport, with isolated record records across Europe. It has made a decisive contribution to the transition of the railways – certainly in cooperation with other modes of transport and the freight forwarders – to making comprehensive offers. I should like to remind you that this proposal, which has repeatedly come from us, namely that the railways enter the entire logistics, has always been vehemently rejected by FPÖ and ÖVP. The transport policy we operate is correct. Unfortunately, it has been criticized again and again by the opposition in this area. One thing in the short term: The development of passenger transport is not quite as satisfactory. Increases have already been made there, but substantial increases are still possible. However, massive increases in tariffs are certainly not the right way. To this end, Mr Verkehrsminister: At last, the countries should be reminded that they are really using the resources allocated to them under Lacina from the mineral oil tax for public transport. In addition, the Ministry of Family Affairs should reconsider its negotiating policy with the Austrian Federal Railways. [[Abg. Sigl: Yes!]] Overall, it is also necessary in passenger transport to think from house to house. Regional transport management for all citizens should be established in each region. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you once again for your efforts, Minister! Our very special thanks must be to the railways for their exorbitant achievements – thanks, but not constantly unjust privilege debates!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5516	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5537	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with Chapter 65, Transport and Public Economy. We note that the estimate of 26.3 billion schillings has a mathematical increase of about 1.4 billion shillings. In particular, the cost replacement from the ÖBB to the rail infrastructure financing community is of 1.3 billion schilling. Additional expenditure was estimated mainly for the remaining financing of the electronic ecopoint system, the central driving licence law, the reform of the steering examination, the reorganisation of vehicle registrations and for the EU Presidency next year. We all know that there have been restructuring measures in revenue. As a result, compared with 1997, reductions have been made from 6.1 billion to 825 million schilling. In particular, this concerns two areas: The proposed revenue for the use of the railway infrastructure by 1997 will be paid directly by the ÖBB to SCHIG-Ges.b.H 3.1 billion Schilling from 1998 onwards. A decline in revenue of 3 billion results from the withdrawal of the concession fee in the telecommunications sector of Post & Telekom Austria AG, which was still estimated for 1997. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Rail Infrastructure Finance Act, which we adopted here in the House in April 1996, is one of the essential prerequisites for implementing the financing of the planned extension of the high-performance network. The current programmes alone are an investment volume of 74 billion schilling. Another important area is the extension of the Danube axis. The construction transfer to the railway-high-performance line-AG is still necessary. Federal Minister! I would like to point out the high-performance St. Pölten–Vienna line – the so-called Tullnerfeld line. The EIA procedure was completed for this purpose. In the meantime, the experts have also been ordered. In a few months, the decision on the route will be taken. According to my knowledge, there is still a problem with the two municipalities Weißenkirchen and Würmla. From the current point of view, the fronts should have been locked down, so I would like to ask you to take action to ensure that a consensus is reached so that a road construction regulation can be issued quickly. Federal Minister! I would particularly like to point out the extension of local transport, especially the S 2, the route Mistelbach–Laa/Thaya, the S 7, the airport motorway, the retracking of Wieselburg–Gresten and the Pottendorfer line. Federal Minister! As a Lower Austrian Member, I would particularly like to point out the importance of the extension of local transport, because I think this is more important than the new construction of the Semmering Tunnel. There we have to expect ecological problems, and many in the region do not want this tunnel. Mr Parnigoni! As a Lower Austrian, I can't leave your polemics to our head of state Dr. Pröll in the room. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Parnigoni referred in particular to the signal system, the traffic lights in Hollabrunn. To this end, I would like to point out that our head of state Dr. Pröll is not too small a problem when it comes to the security of our citizens. There is no village too small for this, I would like to point out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me give you a few figures: Over the last few years, Lower Austria has made a very important contribution to the expansion of public transport. Since 1993, investment in new transport routes has amounted to 10 billion schilling, of which 7.5 billion went into the expansion of public transport. There are 4 500 new park-and-ride sites. Now we have 20 000 passenger cars and 18,000 two-wheel parking spaces in Lower Austria. To the 10 Wiesel fast bus lines to St. Pölten will come in the next few years 180 Wiesel double-stock wagons on all main routes in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: This is the disaster that you have to go to St. Pölten at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! All of these are measures to improve the situation of commuters. In conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We managed the 1997 and 1998 budgets. Without the consistent bowl course, we would not have a budget deficit of 2.8 percent today, but one of far more than 7 or 8 percent. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5601	I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Rada. All the speakers who are now following have announced a voluntary time limit of 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5622	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that one of the most important concerns of our Federal Chancellor and the entire Federal Government is to become a master of unemployment and to take up full employment. If I highlight this from an Austrian point of view, it cannot be said that we are competing with the eastern low-cost countries, but we should more strongly consider our high-tech sector. In my opinion, this is what research is all about. Research costs money, and therefore it seems legitimate that all the expenditure for it should not be covered simply by the Federal budget. However, it is also very important not only to make the money available, but above all to develop contemporary strategies for the implementation of research. It is very important in so far as this time is particularly fast. What is still modern today is already outdated tomorrow and needs new results. I should be grateful if I, as the Lower Austrian Member of Parliament, would take a short look at the Seibersdorf Research Centre, because it has an excellent reputation to speak to it, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That is where the country of Lower Austria wants to participate!]] However, employees are concerned when it comes to delegating certain, very important areas or withdrawing from them. I know Austria has withdrawn from nuclear energy, but Seibersdorf has provided an excellent reputation in this field of research and also substantial know-how to the measures following the Chernobyl reactor accident. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The call for tender made it necessary for me to address, at the end of the day, the requests for participation by the Federal State of Lower Austria. I welcome these requests for participation, because they can also bring about corresponding reliefs and impulses for the federal states – since I mean not only Lower Austria – but a serious offer does not seem to me to be the offer of Mrs Landeshauptmann's deputy with 1 million Schilling participation. I think there must be a rethinking in higher order.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5658	The next speaker is Mr Wallner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5688	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about transport and tell you that rail roads are being expanded throughout Europe. From this point of view, I would like to go back to the special extension of the southern railway area. I think it is important that we come to a decision-making process in Austria, so that there is no danger of Austria getting around. I think the fastest and most cost-effective variant is, as I said, the extension of the South Railway – in the interests of South and Eastern Austria – and there are two projects that are especially important to me, namely the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel, but also the Obersteiermark knot. FPÖ-Redner Hermann Mentil believes that the construction of the Semmering Tunnel is a tragedy because the ÖVP cannot agree. I'll give him all the right in that. However, I would also like to say that the FPÖ is by no means in line with this: It has also helped to ensure that the discussion has become infinite through its constant applications for a stop to construction. I would like to say once again, Mr Schöggl – you have started with an intermediate call in my speech –: You and your Styrian colleagues should finally give up the courage to act in a spirit-building way within the Group, so that these proposals no longer come. I would like to ask you, if you vote again for a construction stop, in view of the responsibility you have towards your electorate and towards your federal state, to relinquish your mandate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: It's getting more and more!]] It is not enough to wear the bully suit or the "mountain kittel" for an understandable home wedding and to vote here in Vienna for very different interests. [[Further call of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to ask my own Minister to be active in the area of the Obersteiermark node and to make a serious effort to sign the Trail Regulation for the Traidersberg Tunnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5740	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Gartlehner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5762	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Many of my previous speakers have already pointed to the above-average budget in Chapter 14, Science and Research. I think we can be proud that we have had above-average growth rates for years. Those who have read the documents from the Ministry of Science have seen in a table the Federal estimates from 1964 to 1998 and the development of the budget approaches. It is impressive and far above the average of general budget expenditure. In principle, a sentence on the reorganisation of technology policy: I believe that it is also a reorganisation of Austrian technology policy in a very difficult process at the moment. I am convinced that at the end of the pipeline there will be a reasonable and good solution for Austrian technology and research policy. I am also sure that it will not be long before this difficult process of harmonisation and clarification of the many competences which are still in place will be completed. I would like to encourage – as I have very little time to speak – a new form of our parliamentary budget debate. I do not think it is very useful to discuss the individual chapters for seven, eight or nine days – very laboriously – until each Member has spoken two to three times, or even more often. It would probably be more sensible to debate more intensively in the Committee and to hold here in plenary only a shorter, more efficient general debate on the budget. In this sense, I would like to present this proposal to the political groups in order to discuss it internally. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5798	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5819	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! President. — The debate is closed. I think it is unthinkable if you, as you have done, simply disqualify and make a group of people despicable, namely the employees of HL-AG. I know that they are doing excellent work and, above all, that is very important to me, with the involvement of all concerned citizens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Public transport and transport safety are closely linked to the basic importance of safety needs in the overall population. Transport safety concerns all measures, from pedestrians to truck drivers, from cyclists to car drivers, and therefore refers to all road users. In my opinion, it is a balanced balance with regard to the importance of people, vehicles and infrastructure. What do we need, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure the necessary security? Firstly, legal regulations; many changes in this sense and improvements have already been made. Secondly, we also need awareness-raising measures. I am concerned, above all, with the questions of the importance of the car and for itself for many groups of people, and why we comply with traffic rules. – Only because if we don't comply with them, is there any punishment? Thirdly, there must actually be increased controls. Ladies and gentlemen! The primary objective must be to protect people, to raise awareness of the environment and, above all, to avoid or limit the risks of accidents and their devastating effects. What does accident statistics actually look like? – According to ÖAMTC, traffic safety is increasing continuously. We have comparisons of 1972 and 1996. There was a total reduction in the number of accidents by 80 percent. Unfortunately, we have to note for 1997 that the number of accidents increased by around 6 per cent compared to the previous year. These are sober numbers, ladies and gentlemen, behind which there is much distress, pain and personal suffering. In my opinion, the problem is particularly serious when children are affected by accidents and involved in accidents. In Lower Austria, two children die every day, about one tenth of the accidents occur on the school path. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? – Strengthening transport education is still necessary to further develop and force protection measures for our children in the infrastructure sector and assistance to our children in road transport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few more figures on accident costs: 600 billion schilling per year across the EU, 50 billion schilling per year in Austria according to the Transport Safety Board – 50 billion schilling are almost half of our budget deficit! One of the EU Commission's strategies to increase road safety within the EU is a uniform limit of 0.5 promills. Ladies and gentlemen! I am still personally convinced of this sensible measure, and we must be quick to implement it also in Austria in order not to become a final element within the EU, because there are already very clear rules in this regard too in Germany. Ladies and gentlemen! All measures that reduce the risk of accidents and increase road safety are important and necessary. We need to formulate clear rules in the interests of greater security and for the good of people and children moving on the streets.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5896	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5917	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, the technical colleges will be my topic. The approach for the colleges for 1998 is 591.590 million schilling; 192 million schilling more than in the previous year. This is the right way to reach the listed 10,000 places of study by the turn of the millennium. Currently 6 200 are studying in these schools, and 2 300 beginners have joined this autumn. As a co-financer next to the federal government, countries, municipalities and private institutions are acting and – with a rather modest contribution of significantly less than 5 percent – the largest beneficiaries, the economy. Four years ago, the colleges were admitted into the Austrian educational landscape. 43 courses are currently being offered. I hope that the social academies will be added very soon. These studies form regionally specific, demand-oriented and very practical, which is particularly appreciated by the economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The range of offers is highly interesting and – I don't have enough speaking time to get closer to it – ranges from international economic relations to local management. The contents are continuously evaluated in order to guarantee as much training as possible. The permeability of the apprentice to the university graduate, for which the ÖGB has been highly committed, is guaranteed by the professional maturity examination and an essential contribution to the principle of lifelong learning. To this principle, the workplace expert Geldner from Wifo says: 80 percent of today's technologies will no longer be used in ten years, but 80 percent of today's people are still in production life. Education policy is a future policy that has a lasting impact on the opportunities of the Austrian economic location – according to Vice-President of the Industrial Union. The technical universities are certainly the right way and an essential contribution to this quoted location advantage of Austria. Finally, a quote from the Industrial Union: We currently spend 90 percent of our educational expenditure on initial training and 10 percent on continuing training. In the USA, the ratio is 40 : 60. I invite the Austrian economy to improve this relationship through a more generous sponsorship at the technical universities.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5971	The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5993	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The South Railway: part of the Trans-European Networks, part of the North-South connection to Pontebana, Semmering Tunnel, Koralm; such are the same. Transport policy – unfortunately, I am forced to speak in short form, as is written in the short letter in accelerators – is a state task. However, the provision of infrastructure may not only be regionally related to the east of Austria. The Styria and Carinthia have recently made a very demonstrative, placardative demand for the construction of the Semmering Tunnel. They have put together the call for the construction at the investigative hall, and they also believe that the funding, as always, should be made – whether the Private Public Partnership is; the hearing is about to take place – must also be done with state resources. This PPP project must not become an APP project, an anti-pröll project, but we must keep in mind! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Steirer and Kärntner make a confession to close and long-distance traffic. We know that Vienna is the central hub of traffic, but the traffic, just as some ladies and gentlemen believe in this room, must not be around Austria. There is also a confession to the Ghega railway as a cultural monument. There is a commitment to the environment. For me, it is not quite understandable why the nature protection procedure for the Semmering tunnel has been for several years now, whereas the nature protection procedure for the Semmering street tunnel could be handled in a few weeks. I see in it an uneven treatment that we simply do not like. [[Abg. Kampichler: Groundwater accidents!]] Another thing: We understand that there are elections in Lower Austria and that Prill, the head of state, has to beat them. However, I note a certain schizophrenia in the statements of his party friends, whether on this side or beyond the Semmering. I believe that the commitment to total Austrian and European transport should actually be a priority. I say something else – and I say this very easy and very easy, because it is not from my ranks, but from the ÖVP Council of State for Economic Affairs in Styria, Mr Landesrat Ing. Paierl –: Mr Landesrat Ing. Paierl said he'd made Mr. Landes Captain Pröll a gift after he had said he hadn't studied a second book yet: He gives him a Europe-atlas with all transport connections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6036	As the last speaker in this debate, I give the floor to Mr Sigl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6058	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The main expenditure in the budget chapter on transport and the public sector concerns the costs of railway infrastructure and is around 11 billion schilling in order to ensure the further rapid expansion of a high-performance rail network in Austria. Because only an EU-compliant rail network will allow us to make optimal use of the European internal market and make Austria interesting to foreign investors. High house! Although some time ago these infrastructure projects were harshly criticised, the criticism is up to a few. We've gotten the names quoted many times today. Individual voices torpedo certain construction projects. However, rail transport needs are currently going, among other things, towards re- and expansion of high-performance lines and rail-related investments in terms of capacity expansion. It is only in this way that we can achieve an increase in track capacity, the elimination of slow-moving stations, the improvement of the technical standard and the necessary modernisations in the railway stations. I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to continue to take infrastructure seriously in order to be able to actually implement the concerns of the population. At this point, I would just like to mention that, as a result of these government infrastructure measures, a long-term concern of the population from my home district of St. Pölten, namely the re- and extension of the main railway station, is in the first phase of implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let us continue to give priority to the rails to the other modes of transport, because this road not only creates economic competitiveness, but also promises the quality of life we want for the next generations! For all these reasons, I would now ask you to give your approval to this government template.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6101	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The rapporteur, Mr Special, did not wish to conclude. – I ask you to take the seats! We are now voting and voting on the Advisory Group X of the Federal Proposal for 1998. This includes Chapters 14 and 65 of the Federal Proposal, together with the corresponding parts of the economic compensatory estimate in 841 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 910 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The consultative group X of the 1998 Federal Estimate is accepted by a majority. In this context, a motion for a resolution has been tabled, in which I propose that we should, within the meaning of paragraph 55. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall take the vote immediately. Is there any objection to this? - That's not the case. I shall therefore be voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Lukesch, DDr. Deweisers and comrades on the preparation of a report on the social situation of students. If you agree to this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 91.) Advisory Group VI Chapter 12: Education and cultural affairs (including economic compensatory proposal)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6170	We shall now proceed to the debate on the Advisory Group VI: Education and cultural affairs. No oral reporting of the Special Rapporteur was required. We are immediately entering the debate, and I shall be the first speaker in the debate, Mr Mag. Sweat the floor. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6198	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter of education has been marked for several years by continuously rising expenditure, this year budgeted with 69.4 billion or 7.43 percent of the total budget. This is a very favourable starting point for school policy in this country. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In addition, Austria has an extremely favourable teacher-student ratio: After all, only 11.8 pupils come to a primary teacher, while 16.1 are students in the OECD comparison. In secondary education, the teacher-student ratio in Austria is 1 : 8,2, in OECD comparison 1 : 13. That is to say, we have by far the cheapest teacher-student ratio, i.e. an above-average financial and also human resources in the Austrian education sector. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is all the more unexplainable for us, in spite of this teacher-student relationship, which is seeking its own classes throughout Europe, how there can still be complaints about the level of education of teachers, university professors and all the others who are confronted with departures from our school system. This can only be said, Mrs Bundesminister, that more money for education does not automatically mean that it will also achieve better educational results. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is to say, the efficiency of our education is obviously not getting started, despite increasing expenditure. The educational offensive that has been announced for years and in many government declarations has so far been absent. Partial repairs, which are carried out by you repeatedly, do not correspond in any way to the social changes. I think that's the point. You have taken far too little account of the social changes in your education policy. Nestroy already said: "Life is the true school!" – This life has changed fundamentally in recent years and decades, but our school has not. Education is faced with social changes, but they require reorientation. There is a rapid structural change in the working world and in the working world. Human routine activity is hardly yet in demand. Mechanization, automation takes over this routine activity, and hierarchical levels are increasingly blurring. Cooperation and team capacity are needed. Thus, the demands for employees are becoming increasingly complex, multifunctionality is required, and our education system does not give a response or yet much too few answers. In addition, we are faced with structural change not only in the working and working world, but also in public and in private life: private life through technological developments that are becoming increasingly catchy, also in the leisure sector, in the private sector. Mrs. Federal Minister! The result is that each individual is increasingly required to take his own initiative, take responsibility to influence the shape of his own situation. This is the challenge for future education policy. We need to find answers together. This means, for future education, that the expectations, which are ever higher and more contradictory, cannot be fulfilled in detail. That is, the school can no longer prepare for the classical profession that one should then practice in his life. There won't be any more. Therefore, the school should be able to become independent, take on responsibility for itself, to cope with ongoing changes. Complex problems to be solved require networked thinking. This means that, as far as school policy is concerned, Mrs. Federal Minister has not yet come far, subject boundaries must be finally overcome. Timetable, hourly schedule needs to be completely redesigned. We are waiting for approaches, but they are not available to you – at least not to far away from us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Flexible design of teaching, block teaching, all this is hardly or not available in normal school practice. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: You don't believe that!]] So at your school, I'm sure not at all. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: Then come and look at it!]] I'm looking at that. I know the very 95, 100 percent of your school's frontal education. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: You know the gym – and nothing else!]] That's exactly what's going on in our schools. You haven't brought anything so far! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One essential requirement – the first step has been taken, and we very much welcome that – is partial justice. I hope that there will once be opportunities to develop a school profile of its own until it is fully legal. Mrs. Federal Minister! But what we also demand is that more competition be brought into schools: more competition among teachers, among the directors who may be school managers in the future. There is also a need to consider whether there should be a wage for teachers, for example, on the basis of a point system. Commitment, good ideas and their implementation in the field of training et cetera must be made visible and rewarded. If you do not, you must also expect cuts accordingly. The principle of performance must also be kept in the school! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you do not reach a minimum number of points – as always you calculate them – you must also be able to release them. It can't be that you keep your place in school, even if you don't do the job. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Or when you become a minister!]] This does not correspond to free school policy as we imagine it to be. In addition, current so-called objective systems would also belong to the past. Then, in fact, the performance would decide on a job at a school – and not the party book, as God is unfortunately still the case today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Next approach: Teacher training. We believe it cannot be so that everyone who believes: That's fine, because I have vacations, nothing can happen to me once I'm there!, you can become a teacher. Everyone must meet certain minimum requirements before he can even start training as a teacher. That is why we are in favour of obtaining an access permit. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is the party book now!]] It must be demonstrated that there is also an emotional level of children and young people, and that this can also be mediated. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! This is what we call for a future teacher training before it is started. The folk school we have today shows that too much too early is being brought, but the emphasis, the development and strengthening of basic skills, learning, is too short by far too many experiments. Mrs. Federal Minister! The focus continues to be on: Work out and strengthen basic skills! That's supposed to be the central content of the folk school. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The school of between 10 and 14 years of age has been particularly affected by this extremely unfortunate primary school reform, especially in the agglomerations. The "vote with the feet" has caused this to happen in the 13th century. Wiener Gemeindezirk nearly 90 percent of all young people of this age can be found at the AHS. The primary school has degraded you to the rest of the school. The negative reading is in the primary school. The problem of apprentices is a direct result of this missed primary school policy. The abolition of the examination at the gymnasia has led to this – let's say it positively! – that the gymnasia today are forced to take on an extremely wide range of talents. – The result is logically a level loss. Mrs. Federal Minister! Solution: Attracting the primary school, replacing the performance groups – I would like to hear your opinion about it –, your own vocational curriculum, upgrading the primary school to the real school or to a middle-class school. The ninth school year should actually bring the completion of schooling. The ninth year of schooling should serve as a professional year and should be considered as the first year of vocational education. This would be a relief for the economy, which would in future be an incentive to hire more apprentices. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! The new school needs a fundamental reform based on what is just said. The traditional and, in part, really anti-performance educational institutions that exist in us, still characterized by pro-proportion and ideologies, are simply obsolete. Central areas of human life are not – yet – treated: Cooperation, criticalness, self-confidence, reality-relatedness, curiosity, resilience and so on. These are the educational objectives for which it is worthwhile to think about a new school and to create appropriate implementation approaches. Mrs. Federal Minister! The new school must provide an opportunity to make decisions on its own, to act independently. The more fine power is distributed in a society, the greater the mobility and adaptability to tackle new problems. I think that your reflections on new school should take place from this point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6353	Mr Dr Höchtl has been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6375	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! To listen to Mr Schweitzer's contribution to his debate means to have a lot of suffering. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Schweitzer. If you have the forehead to say here that the educational offensive has been left out, we would have done nothing further, then I have to escape it: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] You yourself, Mr Schweitzer, have given the answer to these two false claims. After all, you said a few sentences later: It didn't happen to me or to us. That is, you have slept all that has been done in the Austrian school system in recent years. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What is that?]] That's the answer! That's really how it is! Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why does the level of education get worse and worse?]] Mr Schweitzer! I am not only giving you my personal answer, which you yourself have anticipated in your own speech, but I also inform you of the answer given by the Austrian people to these reforms, to these improvements over the last three years. I would like to make them known to this House today. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why don't we bring the apprentices in?]] There is a representative study carried out in 1995, Mr Schweitzer. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== And there is a similar study from 1997. Do you know, Mr Schweitzer, what the Austrian people are saying? – A total of 72 percent of Austrians are "very satisfied" or "satisfied" with this differentiated Austrian education system. This is an increase of 7 percent compared to 1995. This is the answer of the Austrians who find the evaluation of the Austrian school system positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In some contributions of liberal authors or at least as authors of persons, it is also drawn through teachers. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's it?]] Yeah, I've got a lot of things there. For example, I wrote out a few comments from the book published by the FPÖ under the chapter "Prevented Education Disaster". Do you know, however, how the assessment of teaching by the Austrian population between 1995 and 1997 actually changed? – If in 1995 it was still 49 percent, which Austrian teachers called "very positive" or "positive", then two years later, now, 59 percent, that is, 10 percent more! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am proud - and I would also like to say this here today - of what the Austrian teacherry brings with it with much commitment, positive efforts and commitment to this Austrian education system, because this is the prerequisite for our education system to be evaluated positively. Thanks to the Austrian Teachership! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I can explain that to you! Here, for the first time, a little bit of the objectivization of the post award! – In Lower Austria, the ÖAAB party book is a prerequisite for the setting!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In November, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany in Berlin received a very well received, widely commented speech on the need for a change in the education system. I agree with what he says: Education is the key to the labour market, is the best prophylaxis against unemployment, keeps the mechanisms of social ups and downs, keeps our open society in motion, is the life-examination of democracy, brings enormously many demands. – That is exactly what President Herzog has put forward in this speech on six central demands for the German educational landscape, we have achieved together in this coalition government under the leadership of Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer. What Federal President Herzog has demanded for Germany has already become reality in Austria. I think that's something we can be proud of. I would also like to mention this in this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal President Herzog of course also deals critically with some things that happened in Germany and which we should not understand as a mistake in Austria. For example, we can sometimes have a discussion on the abolition of grades on this or that side. It is very interesting what Federal President Herzog says about it – I quote: "There is no education without effort. Whoever banishes the grades from the schools creates cuddly licks, but no educational institutions that prepare for the next millennium." Yes, I fully agree with this statement by the German Federal President. We confess to the performance, we confess to the note, and we confess to our score system, because the students want to be listed, they want to provide services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Roman Herzog becomes the Federal Presidential candidate for the ÖVP!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Roman Herzog calls for our education system to be value-oriented, practical, international, multi-faceted, competitive and time-consuming. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does the novel Herzog say about spelling reform?]] These are the criteria on which we aim to improve the Austrian education system. I'm asking: What have our efforts been lately, and what is imminent? [[Abg. May. Stadler: The spelling reform!]] – In this Austrian education policy in recent months, we have implemented the important reform of the Polytechnic School – not required, but realized! We have not only demanded the easing of the advertising ban, but have realized it. We have called for recognition of schooling abroad not only, but also for it to be realized. We have called for an increase in the independence of the Austrian schools in the educational and financial fields, not only but also for them to be realized. We not only called for the expansion of foreign language teaching, but also for it to be realized. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Performance principle!]] We have called for the introduction of the professional maturity test and the complete permeability in our education system not only, but also for it to be realized. We have called for the improvement of the promotion of gifted people not only but gradually realized. The curriculum reform has been launched. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where is she?]] There are pilot schools in Austria that they are already testing. That is, not the demand, not the loud cry out, but the realization is on the agenda! And the realization is in the hands of the two government parties. And we continue to confess that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will have further reforms in the next few weeks. They have mentioned as the only positive thing that we are introducing the partial right to the Austrian schools. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There was a long discussion. The Austrian universities have achieved, by introducing the partial right, that in 1996 alone, 1,200 million schillings could be added to the budget through their own activities. We also want to open up this opportunity to the Austrian schools. That is why I hope that in December, when we discuss this, you will also say yes to this reform. This would be a real progress in financial autonomy, which offers Austrian schools the opportunity to increase their commitment, to even more activity and creativity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In a few weeks' time, we will open the discussion on the binding "vocational orientation" exercise, because we believe that the children in our schools will be informed at the age of 13, 14 about the offer of the labour market of the future and about the professional opportunities that arise. I hope that will also be accepted by the opposition. Or: Now, at the request of the Vorarlbergers, we have proposed a change to the school-time law, because Mr Head and Mr Feurstein are sitting in front of me. The Federal Minister introduced this to the Council of Ministers two days ago. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Free request!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Head request!]] If the liberals have demanded this as well as the request of my colleague, I find nothing to do with it. The more we support our demand, the better it is, with the greater majority we carry it out. Flexibility is announced! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You're preventing the whole thing!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For example, we have also introduced a legal reform in the field of the many sects – or how all these groups are to be referred to – in the Council of Ministers two days ago. We have around 60 000 members as a hard core and around 150,000 sympathizers of such sects and other groups in Austria. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (on the way to the Bureau) This is a naughtiness!]] This will be a law by which we put in place a real legal measure for the new treatment of this situation. We're acting, you're yelling! This is the alternative here in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Through all these efforts, together with our coalition partner, we want to create an educational policy that is up to the level of social needs and requirements and that is intended to lead Austria to be European champions in the field of education. That is why we are talking about this budget and a yes to the European champion.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6666	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Schweitzer reported. [[Call the ÖVP:Oye!]] [[Abg. Head: I'm sure it won't!]] First of all, the facts to be corrected and then the correction over a maximum of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6709	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is to be said of many of what Mr Höchtl has said is to clarify the following actual correction: Mr Höchtl claimed that it was an ÖVP initiative that led to the reform of the school-time laws, in particular with regard to the graduation of semester holidays. The fact is: Mr Höchtl has repeatedly not put an application on the agenda of the Committee on Education, until a free request by Mr Stadler has been made on several occasions. [[Call the ÖVP: This is not a correction!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: (on Abg. He's been there before!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You're fighting, we're acting!]] That means, right is: It was a free initiative that led to this sensible redesign of the school-time law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6779	Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6800	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Committee on Education, I can only confirm the actual correction of Mr Schweitzer. It behaved the same way. A request for the opposition has not been put into negotiation in order to be able to bring in one of its own. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Head: That's not true!]] Mr Höchtl! You've given one of your standard speeches here today. I shall make the effort to compare these with the speeches in previous discussions. There was no new point! It was an absolute anthem of praise, without even discriminating in any area. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That was a success report!]] I'd say low-noise air! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! It is because of the current discussion – I have just heard one in Radio Tirol – and also because of the discussion in the media a need to comment on the spelling reform. I would like to admit that you, together with the Commission, have found a compromise there. I personally believe that as the Members of the Commission do not consider this compromise to be sufficient, but I simply do not want to underestimate it because it brings relief to the children and because it must be our concern to put the children at the centre of our reflections. Recent surveys have shown that the number of errors has fallen significantly and that 90 percent of all teachers in schools where the new spelling is already being taught also want to maintain this type of spelling. I would simply like to attribute to these teachers the competence that they know what they are talking about. I would really like to support you, Mrs Minister, from this point of view, on behalf of the Liberals, to maintain their position and to avoid populist crossovers, whether they come from the Greens or from the Libe... from the liberal side. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We are liberal?! Thank you very much. That was an excellent Freudsche misperformance!]] Mr Stadler! If you want to claim the term "liberal" for yourself, you just didn't understand it. That doesn't matter. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We are!]] I would like to take the discussion on the legal basis to give you a priority in the field of pedagogical content, in the technical field, that this existing over-evaluation of the law at our schools, as it is currently being handled, is not taken into account. Spelling alone must not be a measure of selection. I believe that we should set up activities in this area in the field of teacher and teacher education and training, and these activities must go up to school supervision. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! What affected me, however, was how you and your department deal with requests from Members. I would just like to give you today a concrete example of several, a question put within the framework of the Committee on Budgets. I asked you what contracts or agreements would encourage the International School in Vienna to this extent and how the amount of annual subsidies would be calculated. – You gave me the answer: There is a contract, and the amount of subsidy is bound by the number of pupils and teachers' salaries in accordance with the Treaty. This answer may be formally correct, but I think it is quite rudely scarce, and I really do not feel taken seriously, because in the substance of reply I actually have the impression that information is held back rather than disclosed in the sense of the questioner. I do not want to put any ignorance in this area to you, and therefore I really ask you to give me a substantial answer. But now to the present budget. I can take a very short look at this, because there are, in general, no substantial changes. There is an increase in personnel costs, but that is to a large extent or primarily, I would like to say, because of the structure and because of the staff costs explosion, it was simply necessary. There are efforts to reduce the number of overtime; I recognize that. But I think that these efforts need to be even more intensive. This budget, however, – and I have to give colleagues Schweitzer the right – does not show a willingness to design, not recognize a willingness to change our school system to the new challenges of society. However, I must admit that the possibility of redesigning, the possibility of improving school quality, improving the educational conditions in schools, increasing the school supply simply has its limits in the budget situation. In any case, personnel costs in the current system prevent this freedom of design, which we so urgently need. It has been drastically reduced in the context of savings packages 1 and 2 in particular in the area of value units. This has actually led to a deterioration in the educational conditions in our schools. I don't need to do this in detail. However, this reduction in unit values has found the approval of the Public Service Trade Union. I would like to take a new start here today, the 45-minute-hour, and at the same time increasing the teaching obligation to get back into discussion. That means that the total teaching time would remain about the same. I do not expressly demand this as a savings measure – expressly not as a savings measure! – but the units of values thus obtained should be used to improve educational conditions in schools. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I think that the increase in the teaching obligation is reasonable at the same total teaching time. Austria is in the OECD comparison, as the teaching obligation arrives, with all school types in the lower third. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! They will also urgently need these additional units of values at schools. They have introduced the "vocational orientation" – a positive assessment on our part – in the third and fourth level of secondary education. But they're going to cut other items again. In schools, it is not just joy. They know that an additional problem lies in the fact that qualified teachers are not sufficiently available for this subject. This was brought to me by various directors. You will also need additional units of value if you think it seriously with your "99 girl promotion points" if you really want to take action. – Mr Höchtl is no longer here now, I would have liked to have said something to him. [[Abg. Dr Höchtl: (he is close to the Bureau) I listen attentively!]] From the background, Mr Höchtl! I'm glad. It must be a need for you, because you have, when the Liberals consciously debated the consolidation, just reacting to it. In the meantime, I hope your Minister of Education could make you from Saul to Paul and convince you that, as we have always called for, girl promotion is something most necessary and desirable. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I don't know who you saw, but not me!]] Read your own press services, then you will find out, Mr Höchtl! [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I know them better than you do!]] I wish you a better memory. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Höchtl.]] I'm not so convinced of that. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! They will also need these additional units of values very urgently to reduce the average schooling maximums again. We are already at 36 students per class in many school areas. The teachers have new tasks to perform, and this is far more difficult to deal with in a class size of 36 students. I think it would be necessary to expand our school offer in the area of free goods, in the field of electoral matters, because there are new challenges due to social change and because a wide range of training is, in any case, beneficial to our children. If you're serious about autonomy, then have to You give the schools more space to design, then you have to give the schools the opportunity to benefit from this new independence as well. And to do that, they need these conditions. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I know from many teachers that they would like to accept the 45-minute hours while increasing the teaching obligation. I miss but Their solidarity with these dedicated teachers who want to shape the children's focus, who are struggling to make the teaching valuable. In any event, these teachers do not feel represented by the Public Service Union, which focuses more on those who want to preserve their possession and are not willing to show their privileges in favour of the interests of children. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If we are speaking here today of a "new solidarity" that we call for liberals, I am already saying that within the school area we still have two classes of teachers: on the one hand, the Pragmatized and, on the other hand, the contract staff, with a very different right of service. For example, we have the pragmatized federal teachers, who still have a median income, including overtime, of about 49 000 s. This median income includes an average of 6,400 S overtime. There are still almost three units of values on each teacher as an overtime. Thankfully, these figures have been made available to me by the National School Council President of Tyrol. There are also two groups within the pragmatized German teachers: the AHS teachers who claim little more overtime, and the BHS teachers who claim most of the overtime. These are exactly those whose staff representatives or trade union representatives scream the loudest: The government's robbery because they don't get paid all the overtime they didn't keep. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! You know, of course, that contract staff have a lower income. You know, of course, that contract staff have no possibility under the current early retirement model. And you also know, of course, that contract staff cannot benefit from the "Sabbaticals", which I particularly welcome. You have actually made a very specific statement in the Committee on Budgets, and you will continue to pragmatize. They have made an unbroken confession to this two-class teacher society. I know, for example, from Mr Niederwieser of the SPÖ that there is a different opinion on the part of your government partner. The coalition does not seem to be able to agree on one way. We know that Klubobmann Khol wants to defend Pragmatization with teeth and claws, but I hope that at least there will be an agreement in this regard between the coalition parties. The Liberals, at any rate, call for the abolition of Pragmatization and a uniform right of service for all teachers, on the basis of joint training in accordance with the principle of a level teacher. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] On the other hand, Mrs. Minister, you have been in the "Presse" of 22. In October 1997, you announced that there should be a new teacher's right in 2000 and you have already agreed with the Secretary of State. That's what I'm asking you: What do you stand for? For Pragmatization? For a uniform teacher's right? I would ask you, regardless of the fact that I already feel it a bit like an expression of political courage to set a time for the submission of this new right of service, which is no longer within this legislative period. In connection with this article, I really need to point out what you yourself are saying: They expect this teacher's right to work with teachers' consent, but actually not with those of the teachers' representatives. And you yourself say, There is a difference between the officials and the many hundreds of teachers. – I now ask you: Who do you explain your solidarity with? Which side are you on? Are you on the side of the union officials, or do you explain yourself in solidarity with the many hundreds of dedicated teachers, whose highest instance are you? If you explain yourself in solidarity with the union, I am sorry, then you did not understand the term "solidarity" in your function. I'll come to the last point. Mrs. Minister! An expression of yours really surprised me, and I think that expression gives me the right to ask you again today how you actually stand for integration. They have responded to our demand for the extension of compulsory education for children with special educational needs, to our demand for equal opportunities and opportunities for children in special schools, in integration classes and, of course, in regular schools with the term "social romanticism" blamed us for social romance. I have to tell you, I bear the term "social romance" easily. In any case, the term "impaired hostility" would hurt me. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But so, Mrs Minister, as you and your place of business have responded to problems in the area of integration over the past few weeks and months, you must at least be accused of allowing disability in the Austrian schools. In addition, it is already important to me today to point out that the accusation of "social romance" is really wrong in this regard. It is, in fact, a purely predicament to divert from political weaknesses in this area. It is not a question of leaving integration children "everlasting" at schools without time limits. It is only for us that they can stay in schools for so long that they can be promoted in the context of integration as long as their development is useful, as it contributes to progress in the school and personal sphere of these children. I think that a democratic society owes its weakest members anyway. And we should not let this happen in order to give them the best possible support. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Liberals stand for an open society, and for us – I am going to remind you here again and again – it is a matter of course that disabled people find equal opportunities and opportunities in our society for minorities, for disadvantaged groups, just as we do in our constitution, and for all of us together.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6994	The honourable Member's head is said to be correct. Please explain first the case to be corrected and then the corrective position, and that within 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7019	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! As Mrs Schaffenrath said in his actual correction, Mr Schweitzer, as before, claimed that the amendment to the school-time law on semester holidays in the government template was based on a request from the liberals. - That's wrong! On the contrary, it is true that there is also a request from Mr Kopf, Mr Feurstein in the Subcommittee of the Committee on Education, and if you compare the request with the Government template, you will be able to see that only this request could be the basis for the government proposal. Furthermore, the application of the liberals is quite unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7052	Mr Antoni is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7079	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps it would be possible to get back to education policy. I must say to Mr Schweitzer, whom I very much appreciate: Dear friend, you seem to have many, many innovations, but also the discussion about innovations in the field of Austrian school. I can't agree with you either if you really fall short of developments in the Austrian school system and say that's nothing. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I didn't say that!]] This not only contradicts 100 percent of international and national study results: Rather, it is an insult to the Austrian school authorities, at which level always, and I believe that it is also an insult to teachers working in our schools. And I reject that with all clarity on behalf of my group. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government has given real and clear priority to the present budget of education. Despite the continuation of the consolidation course in the federal budget, some 3.5 percent more budget resources will be made available next year for ensuring our recognised education, but also for the implementation of further reform measures. If, on the one hand, the representatives of the opposition parties say here that they are reading in the media and listening in interviews with the Federal Minister and probably partly with me, what we are planning all that we are already discussing, then we cannot say on the other hand that there is nothing going on, there is a standstill in this area and our education is lost. Ladies and gentlemen! In all the considerations we are considering, in all the decisions we make, we must be aware that learning time in school, but also in vocational training for our young people, is a non-renewable resource. What do I want to say? . I mean, students who are now in their education need the best offers now, now need a good preparation to be truly ready for life and work and to be willing to learn in the future so that they can accept challenges accordingly. I believe that the 1998 budget has already succeeded in providing further important signals as regards the development of our schools. It is at least clear that: The financing of our entire education system is primarily the responsibility of the public authorities, that is, the task of the state. It is precisely with this that we ensure that broad access to education is guaranteed, and we continue to ensure the principle of equal opportunities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Training – and this is something we must finally confess to – is never complete, further training is never complete. The basic education we can teach at our schools is therefore only a part of learning. In this connection, I would like to point out that during this legislative period we have already taken some really important reform steps in this direction: I mention the School Education Act for professionals. I particularly stress the realization of professional maturity as a milestone in lifelong learning. And the continuation of the integration of children with special educational needs into the AHS sub-level and the primary school should not be mentioned. Mrs Schaffenrath, who is here and who says that these are not innovations, is actually contrary to what is really happening in this area. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: What have I said that are not innovations? An example!]] – You can read it in the minutes. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: I didn't even talk about innovations! You didn't listen!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now it is up to the reform process to proceed quickly. The 1998 budget is also ready for this. Mr Höchtl has already pointed out that we intend to introduce this year the introduction of the mandatory "vocational orientation" exercise for the third and fourth classes of the primary school and AHS classes. We want to extend the role of the vocational school, in particular in preparing for the professional maturity test. Finally, we are currently working – and this has already been said – intensively on the preparation of the next reform steps. This includes a flexible integrative school entry phase, which is conscious of individual learning requirements and skills of children when entering school. This is an important step towards reducing school career losses, but also an important step towards identifying and discovering talent. The foreign language offensive is expected to continue rapidly from the first level of primary school. In the area of secondary education, there should be more flexible forms of performance differentiation, but also in this area the foreign language offensive should be speeded up. However, development steps in the area of the AHS upper level and in the field of middle and higher education must also be discussed and prepared. Our children, ladies and gentlemen, are facing an unstable world and a largely unknown future. It is certainly not expected to be wrong that the time in which one has learned a profession and has retired in the same profession is over. Vocational change, necessary re-training and further training will be more frequent than has been the case so far. In the medium term, further training must therefore become a firm but also a firm budgeted part of Austrian education. Ladies and gentlemen! In order for Austrian children, young people, as well as all learners to be able to learn and continue in the same way, we need highly qualified educators. We Socialists therefore stand massively for a broad, comprehensive and fully academic training for pedagogical professions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen – this is an honest need for me – let me say a warm thank you to all those who are responsible for the school. This is the team, the whole team, I say quite consciously, of our Federal Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs, these are the actors in the field of national and district school councils, and these are especially the teachers at Austria's schools that are noteworthy in the challenges. However, what they need is appropriate framework conditions, as well as public support, and in particular policy support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7167	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7188	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the honourable Member Höchtl managed to link the commitment to the President with the commitment to performance and to the note in a truly bold rhetorical arch, and he remains his secret of what one has to do with the other, after this truly expeditious event, Mr Höchtl, we have now heard several times from the representatives of the government parties, the government parties hastening from one success to another in education policy. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: This is proven by investigation! To the difference from your allegations!]] I can only say: You stumble around the area, and I would also like to give you some examples, Mr Höchtl. About the holiday-time question. That's a ridiculous drama that's been happening there. That's ridiculous! [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Why?]] "Drama" doesn't fit, I admit, "Comedy" is better suited to characterise what has happened in recent years. A few years ago, as a result of misunderstanding federalism, they promoted and enforced a complete release for the federal states, and then it turned out, it does not last. Then you have made a centralist arrangement again, where finally the federal state of Vorarlberg has said, that is not possible either. Then this was blocked by the Social Democrats in Vorarlberg, and now there is a "total" reorganisation that may lead to all the federal states having their holiday time in the same week, if they don't meet again. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That's not true at all! You need to read through the bill once!]] What is supposed to be great and progress, you have to explain this to me, Mr Höchtl. But this is just a simple example. I would like to point out that we have long been in the debate about the working time of teachers – Mr Höchtl, you have a good wire to the teachers' union, I assume – that it is finally being concluded with a evaluation system that has nothing to do with the real working time of teachers. What we need is a working time model that measures the actual working time. What we don't have right now... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Oillinger! Are you going to be a green Bundesobmann? Are you going to be a green presidential candidate?]] This is an interesting question, Mr Khol, which we can clarify elsewhere. However, they could also act quietly with educational intermediate calls. But it obviously is not enough for that. I would like to speak on the subject again. What we need is a real-time measurement of the working time of teachers, because I believe that the assessment model among the teachers we currently have does not meet the realities both in one direction and in the other. There are teachers and teachers who work much more than the current assessment model can express, and there are teachers – and I do not mean the individual, that would be a special chapter – who are relatively favourable because of their subjects. And I think, Mr Niederwieser, we know what we are talking about, namely that it makes a big difference, which is not expressed by the existing assessment model, whether someone is teaching gymnastics, geography or mathematics, or whether someone is teaching subjects in which much more work preparation is to be done. I think it is a pleasure to try to describe real-time work, which, of course, must include much more than pure working hours in school, because the union has no interest at all in the debate on this question. At the same time, teachers must, in this way, be rightly and unjustly exposed to the accusation in the political debate that they are not working enough. It would be different if we were actually to carry out another assessment of the teacher's working hours, including the preparation periods, including the times spent by teachers with the students, including the project work. If we were to work on all of this – the classwork, the class boardwork et cetera – then a more correct picture would come out. There are countries in which this is expected differently, and it is incomprehensible – and this debate would actually have been necessary in connection with the Teachers' Guide; it was also such a "success" – that there are no attempts here to actually do something like a real-time measurement. This is also possible in all other professional groups and is also carried out, also in the public service, with postal officials and what else I know where, only with teachers should it not be possible. Of course, it is possible, and I think we would finally be able to get rid of this painful debate about the fact that teachers are not working, if we had the facts on the table here at last. The reality looks different, and probably it would not be so pleasant for the Ministry of Education, because there may be an effective burden on certain groups, which is much higher than what is currently paid for by the assessment model. That's a question I don't think is irrelevant, because she depends a lot on the motivation of teachers in schools. With these regulations, which you have decided in the context of the budget accompanying laws, the attempt was again made to "reform" the teachers with matura times, times in the class at a corner, while the teachers have resisted, with arguments that are partly unauthorized, but in some cases have their rights, but there is no dispute. We could debate on a completely different basis if there were real-time measurements in this area. We would then debate on a completely different basis. What is happening at present is unbearable because it affects the climate in schools. Mrs. Minister! I always come back to the climate in schools. They know that a good climate is the prerequisite for a reform to work is the prerequisite for working in schools. I believe that this climate is not only affected by the savings packages, but it will also be affected by the failure by the teacher union, also by the ministry, to engage in a dialogue with the students, with the teachers about the stated reform goals. Over the last few years, we have been able to debate for a long time. With the exception of integration, which I think is a very unfortunate reform in the way it has been enforced, because it is much too much supported by the willingness to carry on this reform, with the exception of this one measure, nothing great has happened in the field of school. But I agree, even if it is a reform step that goes far too far to me, it was an important one. But of what troubles, of which struggles have been accompanied again with the teachers' union in recent years! This is where I come to the next subject, because Mr Höchtl has so courageously defended the note and performance system. Mr Höchtl! They are at the stage of the debate on the score and performance system in schools that are out of date. I'm sorry, but that's the state of the day before yesterday. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I do not share the left-wing position!]] This has nothing to do with 'left-green', Mr Höchtl, but what you are doing here by cheering up the numbering note in heaven... [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I clearly become the power and emergency system! I am also in favour of supplementing the verbal assessment!]] Mr Höchtl! You should read the literature on this, perhaps you should also talk to national school council presidents who belong to your group, such as the Upper Austrian National School Council President, and find out what reform models are all about in the field of higher Austria. This is quite clear that the numbering note in this form is not the nonplusultra because it is unable – and here I am quite of an opinion with Mr Schweitzer – to express adequately, for example, cooperation, team formation, because it is not possible to draw an individual's attention to a team work. There's a problem with explaining that. When we discuss these objectives, which Mr Schweitzer has put into the debate, I am surprised that this is what Mr Schweitzer is doing, which is exactly the same with regard to the point-note as you are, but if we are already discussing them... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The banknote is back in operation! Green-blue!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who says that?]] At least in the past, I heard nothing else from the liberals. Perhaps your individual voice was not enough loud to express the difference to other liberal positions here, but if that is not the case, I like to take it back. In fact, the question is whether it is at all possible to express team ability to cooperate in school. But one thing is clear, Mr Höchtl: The point note is a very bad accompanying measure. We need a lot more measures which, of course, go far beyond our current performance assessment system, which should not only be based on numerical notes. And even though it is based on numerical notes, Mr Höchtl, it has not yet been said that a negative number note must lead to a failure to rise. This is precisely the egg dance you have had to perform in recent years without rest, because you cannot argue that someone with a lack of satisfaction should not ascend. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: We can easily argue! You don't get through with your argument!]] I do not want to go into the detailed arrangements which concern the acrobatical legal breakdowns, under which conditions it is possible to ascend with a not enough, only if not already in the previous year the performance has been assessed in the same subject with a negative note. These arrangements, which you want to make here under acrobatics, are for no one to understand. I believe that we need other regulations and an open willingness, but not ideological schemes, Mr Höchtl, which you obviously use as your primary mark in education policy. We need an open willingness, not ideological scams! [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: We're open!]] I'm coming to another point. I think it's... [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: As a former communist, you have less to contribute to openness! That's clear!]] Mr Höchtl, you should be better informed. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You've been a Marxist, haven't you?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's still one!]] You should be better informed! Ladies and gentlemen! If you get the arguments, you'll get to the proposed hammer. Mr Höchtl, this is a little cheap. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: But that's you, isn't it? I am also called a Christian Democrat! I don't have a problem with that! You are an old Marxist – off! There's nothing in it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate, partial autonomy has been referred to as the success of this educational policy, and I already have some critical comments on it. Of course, partial autonomy can be a success, only it depends very much on the accompanying circumstances. My colleague Moser will then provide you with a practical example of how part-autonomization affects the school, a practical example that at the same time shows you the limits. I want to address another aspect. Part-autonomization would also require – and I would be interested, Mrs Minister, what you have proposed here – that we consider the role of school management completely new. It is currently true that the head office of the principal and the principal responsible for this autonomy is the head of the school. The Director is the pedagogical director of the school, managers, financial managers, contractors of orders, advertisers for orders to the school, and we have the problem that the director is only insufficiently qualified in all these matters and that he, above all, unites too many roles in one person. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] - I can't hear you acoustically. We therefore urgently need a debate on the role of the school management and on its specific profile: What do you want a director, a director at school? What is he or she responsible for? He cannot deal with all of this, and I see here at present great deficits and no willingness to qualify the schools in one direction or another, to develop clear profiles here and to define responsibilities, which might also mean that certain areas of activity can be taken over not only by the administrator but also by others. If the school actually becomes partly autonomous, it will no longer be so that the director is the girl for everything and at the same time for nothing. Then we also need another requirement, then we need other profiles for the directors, then we also need other access, Mr Khol, but not the party political entrances, which are still dominant and decisive to whether someone becomes a director or a director at a school or not. [[Abg. Wabl: But you must tell the FPÖ!]] – Of course, this also applies to others. – This is the problem we are currently having on the question of school management. More space for the school not only means more responsibility and more tasks for the director, but, in my opinion, more democracy in the school. The school community, the school community committee, must be able to act more fully than is the case at present. And there is no matter whether it is about the arrangement of the six-day week or the five-day week, blocks that are installed in the system and which prevent any change that parents, students or my teachers want. It's clear: There's a need to go together at the schools. But what you have anchored in these areas – I could list many other examples of this – is not an attempt to actually install the school community as a responsible body. I come to a very different area, which has already been mentioned, it also concerns a trip to and from school. I can still remember that a few years ago – I think it was under Minister of Education Busek – the foreign language offensive was propagated at the Austrian schools. Where did we end up with the foreign language offensive? – In the case of higher division rates, where it is impossible to do teamwork in foreign language teaching. We landed at higher school numbers – Colleague Schaffenrath has already mentioned a magic number. Classes can not only include a maximum of 36 students, and these are the opening numbers, but also go beyond. So where are we? I remember that we did not have a popular desire in Styria for too many years ago, which required lower schooling numbers. This popular desire has also been supported by the parenthood, and it was from the parents' point of view that there was a willingness to support it because the meaning of this measure was well understood. [[Abg. Wabl: Ignored by the ÖVP!]] And now we face more or less of the situation that sometimes it will have to be more than the maximum 36 allowed students per class. This is unacceptable, and this is also an example of the fact that it cannot continue in the training of young people – that is, with the reference to the fact that this is not only the case for a few transitional years, but also the method has the system. In this context, I would like to address a problem which seems to be a major one, particularly in the field of vocational education and training, when I look at the 1997/98 establishment plan: It is the additional services provided, which I believe exceed all reasonable levels. There are, of course, good reasons in this area for the need for these additional services, but there is nothing to apologise for the continuation of this state over years. In the field of technical and industrial training institutions, we have a weekly teacher's effort of 63 000 or 64 000 hours, of which 44 000 are additional services. In the field of pedagogical academies, we have a teaching week of 6 280 hours, of which 5 000 are additional services. – Mrs Minister, I would like to make a statement about this. I think it's unthinkable, but maybe there's an explanation for that. A similar, but not quite so marked, picture exists in the field of commercial academies. I know that you have difficulty finding qualified teachers for certain technical subjects. But this state of affairs, which characterizes the image of a school, along with the overcrowded classes I have spoken about, seems to me to be an unsustainable one in these areas, which also prevents something positive from developing in the relationship between the teachers and the students. Because neither the high class numbers nor the corresponding overload of the teachers are suitable for an intensive relationship between the teachers and the teachers. One last comment, because it has also referred to Mrs Schaffenrath, on the spelling reform – of course still a permanent issue. Mrs Schaffenrath, it is not about cheap populism, it is not about us returning to a state of spelling which has not been able to answer the problems of spelling clearly and convincingly. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Yes!]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That's not true at all!]] I also know that the guy cannot be the criterion for spelling in the German language area, which he was never. But at the same time defending a reform which, on many points – and I take the reports from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights from Austria – has been considered insufficient, inadequate, contradictory, and this seems to me too cheap. We now have the problem of having to live and work on this reform in schools, and I hope that – and I would hope to do so – I also expect a statement from you, Mrs Minister – that what is set out as a transitional stage, namely that by 2005 the rules of old and new spelling can be combined, as a minimum condition, will be maintained beyond 2005. I think it would be wrong for us to return after 2005 to a spelling that will no longer be available as a uniform rule, because this single rule is neither currently possible nor possible in the last decades before this spelling reform. There's a lot of trouble on the part of the dude, but the actual fact is: In schools, the spelling is still superfluous, regardless of the spelling reform, and I would also like, Mrs Minister, that, on the question of emphasising the spelling reform on the assessment of pupils' benefits, we put a step back on spelling because it cannot be used as a qualifying selection instrument in schools. That would be a bold announcement from you, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7475	Mrs Gehrer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7497	Mr President. High house! First of all, a few comments on my previous speakers. Mr Schweitzer. They have set up numerous demands, demands that are good – we have already put them in our work programme for a long time. And I can only tell you, you haven't registered that the train has already left. They're running behind the train! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] I would like to say to Mrs Schaffenrath that Pragmatization is currently in force, and the right of service currently in force is quite simple. It has been decided by the government that if someone who is pragmatized goes into retirement, someone else can be pragmatized. There is no extension. I think that is a reasonable solution. A new right of service will be drawn up, which will also be desired by the trade union, namely a right of contract, in which the life content is redistributed, i.e. the initial salaries are slightly higher. The question of Pragmatization must of course be discussed in the course of the creation of this right of service. It is clear who needs special protection, and I believe that there must be an open and honest discussion. What hurts me, I admit, is that you claim that I am disabled - I have understood it anyway. I say quite honestly to you that I have been very committed to the integration of the mentally disabled into secondary school. [[Abg. May. Posch: That's right!]] However, I must say the following: To propose to disabled people only for integration in school, to demand only this type of integration, I think it is wrong. And if you're talking about being for an open society, I'll tell you: I am in favour of the fact that the disabled are actually being integrated into society and that integration is not just postponed to school. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Posch.]] It is our job to give the mentally disabled young people who have been in school for nine or ten years the opportunity to enter a professional activity, to give them the opportunity to integrate into society. Mr Oellinger! You mentioned the long holiday of the teachers. You probably meant it reversed, but I don't think it's good to mention it all the time. It should be pointed out again and again that teachers, just like all other workers in our country, work for 1 793 hours a year and are in class for 700 to 800 hours. The rest of the time, that is, 1 093 hours, is teaching-free time, but service time, in which all that is to be done, is always spoken of here: discussions with parents and students, preparation, follow-up, project work, team work, commitment to new teaching and learning methods, teacher education. All of this falls into this area. Teachers take this very seriously. In recent years, we have tried to move teacher education into this teaching-free ministry. 25 000 teachers attended training events in Austria during the summer months. And this is a beautiful sign of the joy of our teacherhood. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You have also spoken about partial autonomy – I do not know exactly what you mean by that. On the one hand, there is autonomy and on the other hand the partial right. The partial right is the possibility for schools to make independent offers; it will be decided in autumn. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is a clear signal that the government gives great importance to education, but also to culture. For the increasing number of students, more was planned in the budget for 500 posts but not distributed according to the casting system, but used where they are needed. The increase in the number of students, of course, also requires more effort. The AHS expenditure has been increased by 4 per cent, while the work force for vocational schools is 8 per cent. I therefore make it clear and strongly clear that: Schools aren't empty! Directors have increases in the amount of property, so it can be covered in the whole area of replacements, school events, energy costs the necessary. The budget also provides for more funding for the Federal Property Society, i.e. for the new school buildings, and for more funding for student support and also for our EU programmes. This budget also contains the cultural area, and especially the cultural area has been given attention in this budget. 82.4 million schilling are planned for the completion of the Technical Museum, by the way. ==References====External links== The museum quarter is based on the decision of the Federal Monumental Office on the rail – it is the largest cultural building in Austria since the monarchy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the 1998 budget, 105 million schillings are planned for this purpose. The start date for the museum quarter is 8th. December 1997 at 6 p.m. and the opening in January 2000. For the Albertina, the necessary funds are provided for the study building and the continuation of renovation. In the National Library a beautiful new, large event room will be built under the premises, a very attractive space, which will be used as a journalist centre within the framework of the EU Presidency and will then be available for public events. We will also continue our successful work in the exhibition area. The large Schiele exhibition, which currently has considerable success in New York, will be shown next year in Barcelona and in Paris. After the Bhutan exhibition, which opened last weekend – I invite you to go; it is the largest exhibition of Bhutanan art treasures ever shown abroad – and the exhibition "Land of the Bible" will be held next year with a Brueghel exhibition and an exhibition on the topic of "Font and Signs". The Austrian Gallery will present a large exhibition of expressionism in Brussels during the EU Presidency. This focus on culture has increased discretion expenditure by 14.1 percent – this is a government commitment to culture. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] The entire budget with education and culture is increasing by about 3.5 per cent, but – I do not want to hide it – I must, of course, also contribute to the saving course, of course, I also have to contribute to the consolidation course. And so I have the task of saving 400 posts from the non-teacher sector by the end of 1999 – that is, from the administrative sector, from the cultural sector. We're in the process of doing this. In all the structural measures we have taken, we have always seen that there are no unbearable cuts for schools. Reasonable structural measures have been put in place to enable new developments with existing resources. It is an old thought always to say that we can only implement something new if we have more money, more units of value. I have to ask myself how I can put new priorities with existing resources, what it still needs, what it no longer needs, what I can do new ones. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] In the school sector, structural measures have succeeded: with the relief of the students by a moderate reduction in the hourboard, with greater independence for schools, with its own choice, with the modernisation of the curriculum, with fair key figures for students, for material expenses, for energy costs, for cleaning costs. And the many fears and fears – you know, there are many people who fear prophylactically – that have been expressed here have simply not come true. I would also like to give an example of this. It was said here again and again that the structural measures will lead to a reduction in sport in our schools. I'm telling you, the opposite is the case: There have never been as many participants at sports weeks of schools as last school year! 280 685 pupils and 26 783 teachers participated in sports weeks, which corresponds to 29 percent of Austrian pupils. We have offered measures to increase the quality of these sports weeks, which have been very well accepted. In the case of non-binding exercises, the expected reduction of the sporting share has not occurred. 23 percent of all pupils attend non-binding exercises, half of which are located in the field of physical education. And the trend in physical education continues to rise. I would therefore like to say clearly and clearly that the framework conditions that we have created are very likely to stimulate innovation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The budget we are going to adopt today is also linked to further structural measures in the school sector. On the one hand, the flexible design of life planning – I only call the Sabbathical, the voluntary early retirement, several possibilities for part-time work. And I would like to say the following: Especially early retirement is an offer of teachers who finance themselves. The expected pension will be divided into several years, which will, of course, result in a reduction in the pension. And I am clear and clear: None of the older teachers, none of the older teachers, should be pushed out of school – we need the knowledge, we need the experience of these colleagues! However, I have often heard the wish that there should be exits, even without being ill, without being incapacity for work. And with the early retirement we created the model for an exit. On the other hand, we have taken into account demands from the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors called for the calculation and payment of additional services to be made on a new basis. It will now be necessary to specify exactly what additional service has been provided, and this additional service will actually be paid. This is the result of the fact that the more accomplished is actually paid off. I think this is a correct and new development of the quality of the school, namely the quality of how performance is rewarded. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] As a whole, I would like to point out the following points to the school sector, and I go to many schools: There is a positive climate, the teachers, the parents, the students bring themselves in: they criticize, they ask, they have proposals, they have new ideas, they discuss. I think it is important and good that a lively school partnership is working on school development, and I would like to thank all of them, the teachers, the students and the parents, for this willingness to innovate. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] As a Minister of Education, I am particularly concerned to give prospects to young people who have fulfilled their compulsory schooling, either to attend another school or, in a teaching profession, to enter a profession. That is why the government has also decided on the special programme of the Federal Government for youth employment. I believe that this special programme has led to a turnaround, namely that dual training is fully recognized in its worth. We've got 2 675 more teaching contracts this year. After all, this is an increase of 5.9 percent. I would like to thank all the companies that were willing to take part in this useful training of our youth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the school sector we had the requirement to enable 5 600 additional schools in secondary schools for our youth, and we have fulfilled this requirement. In the schools of the fourteen- to nineteen-year-olds there are more than 7 632 pupils this year. We have also made a survey of whether there are still free schools. There are still free schools, distributed in individual schools throughout Austria. But we have, and this has been confirmed by the National School Councils and the Council of Town Schools, included in our schools all students who meet the requirements for a school. Those who are still on the list of job seekers want to do a teaching and not go to school anymore. Therefore, the problem of those who are still looking for an apprenticeship cannot be solved by assigning them to a school. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So I'm allowed to say: The school took its mission very seriously in the field of the special programme. We have exceeded the target with 7 632 pupils, and I would like to thank everyone, especially those who have been so enormously committed to young people in the federal states.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7608	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Morak has now been reported to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7633	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have all just heard that Mrs Minister is responsible not only for schools but also for a highly identity-building area, namely the area of the National Library, the Federal Museums and, of course, for the protection of monuments. We see it as a task to deal with the circumstances and structures in a committee in the near future. I would like to dedicate myself to a theme that has long been the Causa fine in this city and possibly also in that country, namely the Museum Quarter. ==References== October 1997 the Museum Quarter can be built – we have heard it today – that is, eleven years after the invitation to tender and more than seven years after the jury decision for Ortner & Ortner. Finally, a version of the Museum Quarter of Wehdorn, Ortner & Ortner, is being built, and to this end it has required five ministers and the steel bath of a debate, even for Vienna's conditions, about the fore and the resistance. The standard of brutality has been redefined. It used to be called brutality is simmering against Kapfenberg. Since then, it says: Brutality is the discussion about the museum quarter. It was really everyone against everyone and everyone against all and all against each other. The former horse stables, which were really destroyed by Messe AG in the 1950s, without there being a cry for them, were highly stylized in this discussion to an insurmountable and untouchable building jewel. All approaches to contemporary design, a contemporary architectural intervention in the area of former court stables could not be realized. A new, acceptable meaning of the historical building material was not possible and thus the opening into the 7th century. District. The museum mile in the center of the city, promoted by Busek, was mercilessly torpeded, hunted and disqualified. The project seemed to be breaking between the Maximumists and the Monumentists. But at the end of the day, a solution has come out that is much more important, and this must be emphasized than the discussion that has been held before it has been expected. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But no one is satisfied with!]] That's not true, because I'm happy with it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Exceptions confirm the rule!]] Please go, look at this, and then we'll talk. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm happy too!]] In the strict separation of the building bodies, even in the reduction – I say now consciously – the Cuba can breathe old and new, are opposed to each other, without one dominating the other, superimposing, grinding. This was also made possible by this, and I am therefore at the content that was pushed away from the rigid usage concept – and there Mrs. Gehrer has shown a very sensitive approach – to the actual development and urbanization of this little piece, this small part of the city: Life instead of representation, workshop instead of permanence. It's all in the river, especially in the new conciliation debate. There's a museum in progress, and that's also the message. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The debate on architecture has therefore led to a reluctance to take place and to a ground arrest. This opens the look for what is to be there, what is to be designed there, what is to be shown there, what is to be inside the premises. There is also a life after the flooring. This life is increasingly to be preserved, just as it is growing, even in the time of the events in the Museum quarter, at the Leopold Collection in the Museum of Modern Art, in the event hall, in the Children's Museum, in the Children's Creative Centre, in the Architecture Centre and so on. Of course, the museum quarter is also a case-by-case example of infinite excitement, and the phenomenon is: From this most deflorable debate, a passive, inconvenient result is derived, that is, a little deeper Austrian. Once you have time, Mr Krüger, you should be happy and say: Guat is going, nothing is g’hne!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7715	Mrs Madl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7736	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! The way in which you qualified a ten-minute speech by my colleague Karl Schweitzer with the stand-up rate, that the train has already left without specifying to what extent you see it, is not worthy of a minister and is not particularly qualified for the office you hold. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Cold!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Where has the train for our demand for a primary school reform already gone? Where is the train in relation to the 9th. Year of schooling and its entry into vocational schooling? What have you done about teacher training and teacher pay? What have you done with regard to curriculum reform or redesign of the hourboard? Where did the train go in all these things, Mrs. Federal Minister? You can't do this with a single sentence just because the audience listens up. That's a "qualification"! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] But You have also qualified in the field of spelling reform with the decree with which you have introduced the spelling reform in Austria, rather not for the office you hold. They have arranged to have the new spelling reform in the public schools taught as early as the school year 1997/98. Although you are now aware that in Austria more than 80 percent of the population are against this reform, you have commissioned you to have school books printed in accordance with the new rules. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] This costs taxpayers, contrary to your demands in the Committee, Mrs Bundesminister, because we have also asked you for the costs, of course, a lot of money. This reminds me that you also said in committee that you would have the teachers behind you on the pre-retirement scheme for teachers. I'm asking you what teacher you have behind. What about those who have written us packages of protest letters concerning this early retirement arrangement? [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: This is voluntary, Mrs. Colleague!]] Where are these teachers? They're moving in the dark circle. Your circle of acquaintances? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A skill, no need!]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! There is something wrong with receiving protest letters on the one hand, but on the other hand, the Federal Minister – and again today – says that this early retirement scheme is an achievement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: No one has to go to the pension if he does not want to!]] Do you know what the Federal Minister has done with these statements and with this early retirement scheme? – It has deceived thousands of young teachers, because not so many of them will take advantage of this early retirement scheme. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Why did she deceive them?]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: A primitive understatement!]] Those 200 to 300 people who may take advantage of this possibility do not satisfy the needs of 8,000 young teachers who do not have a job. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: She didn't say that either! That's not true!]] It has aroused false hopes, and this is particularly critical, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I will now return to the spelling reform. They claimed in the run-up to the reorganisation of the School Book Action – which would be almost funny if it did not cost so much money – that these would be slowly changed in the course of the renewal of the School Books according to the rules of the new spelling reform. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'd like to know what you're talking about. Either you're not telling the truth what I don't accept and don't want to put you under, or you have no idea. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I don't know what you're talking about!]] I could hand you a ten-centimetre thick catalogue of schoolbooks that just don't have to be reprinted. For example, I call foreign dictionaries, which do not need to be reformed every two or three years. That's not true at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] What about the Latin books, the "Liber Latinus" or the small and large Sto water? What about the religious books? It's just an alibi action if you say they belong renewed. That's not true at all! They only want to imply the new spelling reform. This costs taxpayers 100 million schilling, but the Federal Minister is not too expensive for our money, the taxpayer's money. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Another aspect is that this spelling reform will not be binding on the federal states. How are we supposed to imagine that? The Federal State of Carinthia introduces it, but the Federal State of Upper Austria does not. Are there then quite a number of regulations? Imagine, as a merchant, I get a letter, an offer that uses a spelling I don't think is right. I don't even look at the numbers again, because I assume that if a person can't even correct my feelings, even the numbers can't vote and the order can't be fulfilled either. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Peter Handke, Günter Grass!]] That's it. Mrs. Federal Minister! A spelling reform only makes sense if it is accepted by the population, and this is obviously not the case in Austria, Germany or Switzerland. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why it is pointless to force the people to accept a spelling reform through the back door school, which they do not want to do in the end. German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel just said a few days ago something you should once internalize. He said that once again one could become wiser and have to confess that one can be mistaken. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But you too, Mrs. Colleague!]] A contemporary writer has also said – that would even have laid a track for you – that he understands the difficulties that politicians have in withdrawing from an unsustainable state, but that is not a shame but a merit. Mrs. Federal Minister! You should take these words to heart! That's why I'm making a request. The Ring Freedom youth has launched a signature campaign and has already collected many thousand signatures. I do not know why Mr Schaffenrath can conclude support for the new spelling reform by the teacher. I don't know how she's got these numbers. In the population and also in the youth it is at least very strong resistance. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Mr. Khol! Can you confirm that?]] I submit the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7980	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr Höchtl has spoken on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8008	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Madl has just made two claims that are incorrect. First of all, she found that the Federal Minister, with the announcement of the early retirement model, had aroused false hopes among young teachers. [[Abg. Madl: Did she!]] I'll put it right: The Federal Minister has proposed an early retirement model which can be used voluntarily by those wishing to retire. When it is used, young teachers can get the freed posts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: This is not an actual correction! That's a review!]] [[Abg. Madl: You wake up false hopes!]] Second claim: They said that the Federal Minister had received thousands of protest signatures. I'll put it right: No protest signature against this early retirement model has been received. [[Abg. Madl: Not with you, with us!]] That's the truth! What you said is not right.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8116	The next speech is by Mr Mag. Let's go. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8143	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to say that it is positive that the teaching budget has also experienced an increase of 2.3 billion schilling this year. This is a remarkable achievement, as measured by the other budget chapters! I'll take care of this. I would also like to say, however, that there have been considerable savings in the field of teaching, for example in the course of the teachers' package, where, for example, massive savings in the field of multiservices, totaling 900 million, i.e. almost 1 billion schillings, have been made. That's quite a lot. I do not know that there are problems with thinking about the matura or the problems that may arise in the preparation of the timetables, because some have already reached the ceiling. It is not always beneficial for teachers to be motivated if they are burdened by the matura and then the additional services are removed from them. On the other hand, I recognise this because it is a higher asset in the sense of weighting goods when jobs are created for young teachers and therefore young people are put into employment. In this respect, the measure with the additional services I consider to be in order. I think that's the same thing. Your early retirement model is fine. This is a good measure – in turn, not only to create new teaching places, but also to give teachers who feel burned out or want to work less, the opportunity to do so. I also consider the Sabbathical in its various variants to be a good measure. Mrs. Minister! You do not have my undivided consent to these measures in the course of the pension reform. The introduction of throughput periods also involves teachers with a massive deterioration in the amount of pension. I recognize that there is a covert of losses. All in all, however, I am opposed to a budget recovery which is unilaterally burdened by workers, whether it be officials, teachers or railways. I agree that, in the course of the pension reform, everything has to be limited once. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you voted in favour of you in Parliament!]] There is still a point concerning the vocationally educated middle and higher schools. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's better if you do that. To be against it, but to vote for it is a contradiction!]] You know, there is a rule that students who have more than three not enough in the first class are no longer allowed to attend school. It's actually bordering on a professional ban! There are a lot of pupils affected. I think this is a problem for constitutional reasons. At the time, I have also been in the committee and would be very much in favour of rethinking this measure. Finally, I would also like to make one last comment on the spelling reform. As you know, the IG authors have filed a model complaint against the Vienna Commercial Court on the reform of the law. Resistance to this reform is growing. I know that from your point of view this reform is difficult to siss. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Hard, but not impossible! The Minister of Foreign Affairs has taken action to make it impossible!]] Nevertheless, you should consider this when artists and writers are almost closed to it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mrs. Minister has come to make impossible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Right!]] These calls are just annoying! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Parliamentaryism is annoying! That's your attitude! Yes, yes!]] It's hard to see that. But perhaps we could take further reform steps on the basis of the substantive case law, the double S writing, the composition and separation letter, because for me this is not a reform, it goes too far. Consider that this is a legislative work that some experts have worked on for almost ten years. I see that it is difficult to find a consensus as this question is a matter of country in the Federal Republic of Germany and there are different positions, but perhaps Austria could take a pioneering role in this direction and drive this matter a little further. That would be my concern. Mrs. Minister! I would like to ask you once again to comment on whether you agree to the Council of Ministers' decision this week, according to which They have provided a further 3 500 training places, whether to wear or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8249	Mrs Motter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen, I am doing this. You must be aware that I will have to interrupt you in 6 minutes if your speech is not finished by then. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This will be a redemption for us!]] [[Call in plenary:Haha! Very nice]] [[Abg. Mother: So that was very unfair now!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Krüger, excuse me!]] I would like to ask you to waive such calls. They certainly don't promote communication. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You're talking! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8363	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to deal with cultural matters very briefly and to begin by saying that it is a remarkable success that this budget chapter has increased by almost 200 million schilling. But numbers aren't all, and here's where my criticism comes from. Mrs. Federal Minister! Your ministry lacks a cultural vision that shows where the way of the Federal Museums is to go. For example, what should be their mission in the next millennium? Should the Federal Museums be depots, educational institutions or tourist attractions? – I cannot take any account of your cultural report, which is available for the first time, and I would ask you to deal with these questions in the first place. My knowledge has also never been studied what expectations the interested visitors put into a museum visit. For me, this is a central question, which is still in the room. I would like to add another question: As a responsible minister, how do you react to the tendency that museums offer a program more and more often like theaters, that exhibitions follow each other at short intervals? Is this a forward-looking museum policy or not? I think we should discuss this too. In my opinion, there is no coordination between the individual museums. Often three exhibition openings take place on one evening, two of them in federal museums. I believe that harmonisation in this area would not only be desirable, but would also make sense. Mrs. Minister! You may also be able to achieve something positive in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! The rightful distribution of the museums is an old demand from us liberals and certainly a right step. However, it should not be the case that a small group under the direction of Head of Section Wran will develop a concept whereby the museum directors concerned are neither involved nor sufficiently informed. Mrs. Minister! There is great uncertainty among the staff of the museums. I therefore ask you why these persons who are also concerned are not informed of the direction in which you imagine the exclusion. Why is there an absolute information vacuum? Another question: Which national and international experts have been used to prepare this exclusion? I believe that this groundbreaking change, which is a century-old project, should involve as many people as possible, but in any case the people concerned. Finally, provision should also be made for the provision of appropriate training courses and courses to ensure organisational skills for economic management. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Minister! I have heard from you in the Committee and today - you have already preceded the cultural debate, I hope you will speak again - that the foundation for the museum quarter will take place in December. My joy at this is limited, because the original concept of Ortner & Ortner is unfortunately not much left. We also know why. Due to the pressure of a mass newspaper and the municipal council elections in Vienna at that time, important architectural signals, such as the Reading Tower, were simply deleted. The architect duo had to bow to the monument protection. From the architectural concept, which once points to the future, a draft hull, and my joy, Mr Morak – he is not there at the moment – is limited. I am deeply sorry for this, and it is significant to me for the attitude in this country that the social and political little spirit has won over a vision whose realization would have been quite possible. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We will certainly not write any architectural history with this new design, and we can only look with envy at the exemplary museum building in Bilbao. There was a project that has already written architectural history, and the world public has been made aware of a rather insignificant city. An art metropolis was created! A new impulse has been set for an entire region! Political will and foresight were leading. Austria or the cultural metropolis of Vienna, which she would like to be, has played a big chance. – That’s at least my summation! I will address further questions to you after the urgent request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8440	I am now briefly interrupting the deliberations, as the urgent question is scheduled for 15 o'clock and the call for another speaker would not make sense for a minute. The sitting was suspended for a short time. (The sitting was suspended at 14.59 a.m. and resumed at 15.01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8467	I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Gaugg and Mr Colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on "fair pensions for all" (3309/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8500	We now come to the debate on the written question 3309/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of this House, there is a lack of reading by Mr Schreiber. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8734	I give the floor to Mr Gaugg as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. Its speaking time may, in accordance with § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure do not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8755	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr President. I am pleased that the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria will find time to be here in Parliament this week because it is a matter of substantial future decisions in this country, including the question of pension reform, which ultimately shows the truth faster than you love. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: At the budget he didn't trust himself anyway!]] This pension reform has brought "sudden" 3%. Of the planned 20 percent of this pension reform, no longer has been achieved. It is true that indifference is more quickly avenged than is desired. The aim of this reform was not to shape the future of pensions, but the aim of this reform was solely to obtain the approval of the social partners. I'm just telling you: That was a mistake! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another serious mistake of this federal government is that it speaks differently than it does. For example, there is constant talk about increasing the retirement age, but the opposite is made of what the increasing number of early pensioners proves. A harmonisation of pension systems was also promised. But the injustices have been manifested. The real problem of this republic was over-disputed. It was just more about who was protecting. It was not about addressing the lack of active employment policy in our Republic. The debt-making policy has reached its peak. There is no money for innovation and no money for investment. The 1998 budget proves this again. Thus, the official deficit of around 67 billion Schilling contains only 13 billion schilling for investment. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You are well aware of this unfinancing of the system, but you lack the courage to have a real reform, a real change in the system. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The present situation is such that those who have negotiated have been judged and the rest remains on the track. It was played young against old. We have been right in our criticism that not only the opposition parties in this Republic have articulated: Rürup says it's not a reform. Marin says it's an approach to reform. Felder says it's not a reform. Marin says that we will soon have to talk about a reform. – That's the reality! In time – I would like to say that you already have almost Vrannitzky-quality – after decision making of the pension reform, you have argued as follows: This is a piece where something has gone on again that we can show, and more like that! – That is probably not enough by the next year, so we will soon have this problem back on the table. The bad conscience is also manifested in the fact that, after the decision-making process, you have entered the media on a whole-sided basis. It costs your movement a lot of money. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: And the Federal Chancellor!]] You must – desperate! – try to explain to the public why this pension reform is fair. I'll tell you now why she's not fair. They speak of justice for all occupational groups, equal calculation and equal pension increases. I have to ask you: Where's the calculation period with your policy board? – He's missing all the way! That's saved! You brought the whole thing over the stage in time and saved it. Where is the calculation period with the employees of the Austrian National Bank? Where is the calculation period with the employees of the social security institutions? Where is the calculation period with the officials of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation? You know what's so sad about me? [[Abg. Wabl: Go on, he's sad!]] – You always say you are the friend of the railways, the posters and the like. It's all said to be your friends, but just this professional group has led you particularly behind the light. I can prove this to you in a lot of things. Early retirement campaigns mainly run in those areas where politics – your policy! – has direct or indirect access. This concerns the Creditanstalt-Bankverein Wien, the OMV – this company you and your State Secretary Ruttenstorfer personally know –, the interconnected group, the teachers, the post office and the train. We have already discussed the post and how inhumane one is dealing with the staff there in terms of personnel reduction, several times in this Parliament. 9 500 employees need to be reduced, but not because the posters have worked so badly, but because this company has been undermined financially, which you and your predecessors have to answer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, the post office is to compete; today it is talking about equal opportunities. The fact is, this one has a high level of financial commitments that no one will take from it. This is not a level playing field, it is not an opportunity. In addition to the head money that is paid, there is now the shot-off premium as a bonus. You have also approved a discharge premium with your Council of Ministers decision at the last Council of Ministers. Depending on the length of the term of service, a voluntary premium is also received in addition to the legal discharge. This is not provided for in the Structural Adjustment Act, but a Commission, consisting of two employers and two employees' representatives, has been set up to decide on the level of this grant. It would be interesting to know the criteria for setting the level of this voluntary settlement: If someone's a good comrade, he gets more, and if someone's a "slimmer" freeman or a partyless, he won't get anything? I'd like to know. Another inhumane thing: ==References== In December 1997, all employees who are eligible for early retirement were asked to make irrevocable statements that they were disappearing from their jobs. – That’s inhuman! This is a course of action that is strictly opposed! I am particularly surprised – but I am not really surprised at the SPÖ anyway – that it is the SPÖ, which is a special sniper in these questions. It is the bowl-ditz course that fails, because in the end it produces more and more unemployed, but the SPÖ can be used enormously in this question. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a very current so-called social plan – it would be more striking if you said "Un social plan" – of the Austrian Federal Forest. Interestingly, it appears only after the negotiations on the pension issue. A few days ago, this social plan was decided in the Federal Forests to reduce 188 employees with the only objective. It is assumed that they are not able to follow the new technology, so they must be thrown out and replaced by 60 new employees. This is the policy that is being made in Austria today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the red and black workers' policy in this country. One assumes that older workers are unable or unwilling to adapt to modern technologies. That's where I ask if the responsible members of the board have ever been examined whether they are willing to do so. Theirs is as always nothing. Mr Ditz was provided at the post office, and this is also customary in other companies. With regard to the costs: If the company reverses the costs of the federal redundancies of 188 employees, it could be said: This is a decision of the company, which is, unfortunately, unsocial and inhuman, but unfortunately. The fact is, however, that all employees are sent to the unemployed one year before retirement. This measure alone costs the Austrian taxpayers around 30 million Schilling. The difference continues to be paid by the company at that time. It's also called: Anyone who has difficulty in retirement should contact the direction which the party political will already direct, and more. The service homes are allowed to keep these people thank God before they are finally approved. – This is your social policy in this Republic! Now, for the most part, and for one of the main reasons of the urgent question regarding "right pensions for all". You have lied to the staff of the Austrian Federal Railways with the Ruster Mogel package!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8862	Deputies! I give you a call for an order, even if a particular group does not like it. And I appeal to all Members to avoid a division of this kind. It is now in the Rules of Procedure that the dignity of the House must be safeguarded. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8891	Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8910	Deputies! You don't have to discuss with me. Please continue your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8931	In this Republic, I would like the Socialists to see the sensitivity they have shown to individual speakers in Parliament, even with regard to the population suffering from it, that you are making such a policy! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You will still not be able to do what we serve you today! Get out of it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Flicky behavior!]] I'd like to experience that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: I'd think about how to spell "Nazi"!]] I would like to experience that you feel and think along and not always judge it yourself. Those who throw you out, give you a little bit of a fine. That's the point! You're always very sensitive! You are the Hof- and Nobel Socialists, be sensitive, very sensitive! Whenever you are imposed, there is great indignation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Everything comes back again and again – as with the Tibetan prayer mill. I could also tell you every time what is going on with Mr Metelko in Klagenfurt, and more. [[Abg. Koppler: Why are you yelling like that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Because you're yelling like that!]] - Because it's annoying me! You, Koppler, should be particularly touched! Do you know how you're doing? – There is no longer the operation in which you were a business councillor, but you are still emperor! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: With Service Mercedes!]] You were left with the van and the driver, but the others are out of employment. That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why you, who are supposed to be dealing with workers every day or perhaps had to deal with workers in the past, should be able to understand what 9 500 posters, 10,000 railways and 3,500 others are all about. If Mr. Draxler, your party friend Draxler, publicly declares... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: She locked the service provider out! The Gaugg was locked out!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about your desk, Mrs. Colleague? There's the woodworm in there, because you never sit there!]] I can tell you something, Mrs Mertel. At present, the ÖBB has 56 000 employees. According to Mr Draxler's ideas, the railway will soon have only 40 000 employees. The 16 000 people who will be released will be sent to you, Mrs Mertel. I say the following to you: Do you know why they wanted to lock me out at the Linz Central Workshop at that time? [[Call the SPÖ.]] – Because there are unreasonable working conditions. Inadequate working conditions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you know why it's good for us? – In the meantime, the factory hall has been renovated and doors have been installed in the painting shop. This has still not been done in 1996 – because of your policy! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You've been locked out of the bank!]] They're happy about it. That's all right, that's your business. I don't care about it. I will now tell you the following: Their form of labour market policy, which also represents a Mr. Draxler, contains the reduction of personnel, but if a private businessman did what Mr. Draxler did with the ÖBB, you would be the first to get up and say: Pigry! Of the 6 million overtimes done by the railways, only 2.5 million have been paid to date. Mr Edler from the railway knows that for sure. But Mr Draxler just says: That's it! The trade unionists themselves are to blame for this, because they want this situation! – That’s what your Mr. Draxler, your party member, says! I do not know any party exclusion proceedings against Mr Draxler. Let me tell you something else: Federal Chancellor Klima, Mrs Hostasch and Mr Rudas always say that they are among the ÖBBlers or the Posters. I think this is a dangerous threat to the workers there. That is true, because the deception of voters has in your party system. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The grapes are too sour for you!]] I'll tell you something, Professor of the University: The railways were excluded at the pension debate, and it was repeatedly claimed: We're not doing anything with you, because you're our great guys! Now the election is over. But under what conditions? Protocols state that if the competitors hang something on a panel in the operation, this is taken down. That's what we have to live with. – This is your understanding of democracy! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The grapes are too sour for you!]] But now the choice is over, and now go on: They send Mr. For one thing, in the hope that, since all of his friends are there, he can do something there. Federal Chancellor! I'll measure you by what you're going to do at the railways' pensions. I'm very excited about it. You still understand the idea of running suffocation, just to gain power, according to the motto: Every choice we will somehow survive if we only deceive long enough! This will be forgotten until the next election! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I will now prove to you that this SPÖ has permanent suffrage. [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] I have a record to prove this. All those who are long enough in Parliament, who all come to enjoy the political pensions, are willing to give up a bit. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You don't and I don't!]] But you should at least think about it and support our proposal! To the VOEST-Pensionists: In the years 1989 and 1990 VOEST went down, employees have been terminated, many have been sent in early retirement, retired without any commitments. You've always said there's going to be an operating board. Then this possibility was gone. At that time, this – still quite remarkable – SPÖ feared that a pensioner party would be established in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Come on!]] [[Abg. Swimmling: What you know!]] That's what many have called on the plan. Do you know why we know that? – Because your voters, your members are very disappointed today, because shortly after the election of the railways, the pension discussion has started again. [[Abg. Sweam: You cracked the computer!]] These people send us things and say: In the Pensionistenverband one has thought about this. Mr. Edgar Schranz took part in the debate on 6 June. A handwritten note was sent to Mr Otto Rösch in May 1990. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Something newer doesn't seem like you?]] Check it out, Professor! Maybe you're a graphologist. Do you know what he's writing? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Watch out! You won't do that either!]] Listen! We'll have to think about it soon, he writes... Listen! [[Abg. Aumayr: This is a scandal!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The rosch called Otto!]] He writes: We must now soon consider whether we are doing something (disgusting candidate and withdrawal) and at least talk to the party. Dearest Edgar. - That's your party! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Fraud is not so fast, Professor!]] Mr. Party Chairman and Chancellor! This party is in front of you. This party prepares a malice candidate for the SPÖ, operates suffrage and then wants to raise the morale sometime and somewhere in that state. Where is the moral basis of this SPÖ? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Is that what the rosch was writing?]] Do you know what's interesting, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka? – That exactly you report! Do you know why it's interesting that you report? Do you know who made legal advice in this action? – Your wife! And you were the State Party Secretary in Vienna at the time. That is very interesting! It's good you're getting in touch. You'll remember best. Look, there's the handwritten note! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your wife! That's how it looks! You opened your mouth too early!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's your morale! This is your view of politics! You do not want to admit that you seem to support indifference. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You can show him the protocol!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This has his wife, you don't need to show him that!]] You do not want to admit that this system, which you firmly maintain, has become unfinanceable. [[Abg. You should spell it! Then it's all right!]] That might be easier. We have come back to this so-called reform: more effort, less pension! That's your goal! But I say to you the following: The Freedom Party will not give its consent to any deterioration in pension rights in this Republic, because it is not to be seen that individual professional groups of you are heavily disadvantaged, but other professional groups are treated like golden eggs! I expect the question of political pensions to be resolved, the question of pensions in the Austrian National Bank and the question of pensions in the chambers. [[Abg. You don't get one, and I don't get one! It's solved! What do you want?]] Black and red – that is clear – are always completely in agreement. I say the following to you: Some of you will certainly still celebrate the day in this Parliament with joy, on which we finally change to the three-pillar model in our Republic of Austria, which has already been successful in other countries. [[Abg. Son of a bitch: keep God!]] Let me tell you again: This SPÖ...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9408	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9426	This SPÖ is a single deception maneuver!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9456	In order to deliver an opinion on the subject matter or to reply to the urgent question, the Federal Chancellor has referred to the debate. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9477	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The limit on speaking time is forcing me not to deal with the various types of electoral disappointment of the Freedom Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: In 20 minutes you can say anything!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now withdraw to the speaking time!]] As far as the field of national lights is concerned, the crocodile tears you, honourable Member Gaugg, are inappropriate. I just remember that there were proposals from a top politician in your party to block Donawitz – and all these things more – where thousands of qualified jobs really exist today and employees worldwide produce excellent products. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I leave it now, because otherwise the speaking time of 20 minutes is really not enough if I want to address the individual points. However, allow me to make a fundamental comment on this debate over the last few days. Ladies and gentlemen! I sometimes have the impression that there are people or groups in our country who are not at all satisfied with the fact that we in Austria are solving major political problems in social common. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] These people seem to prefer instability, hundreds of thousands of people on the streets, blockades, demonstrations and riots. We will not offer that to them as this Federal Government! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will preserve social solidarity, social partnership, cooperation with the government and Parliament and social peace as a great asset in our country, even though some do not. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I believe that this is very important, especially since the Federal Government has undertaken to make our country fit for the new millennium. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: One million people at the minimum of existence!]] This requires a lot of measures for which social peace is an important prerequisite. Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken up the issue of pension reform, although it has little impact on the 1998 and 1999 budgets, because we have seen an obligation to do something for the future of our country – together with the constructive forces in this Parliament. The Federal Government will not be allowed to do so in the future either! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We've done something quite simple. In order to avoid uncertainty, we have undertaken a joint reform this year. I would like to stress once again: together! We have undertaken not to drive over anyone, but to come to a solution in conversation, as is our custom. In our view, this reform should ensure that there is more justice and harmonisation of pension systems in the future, that there is more protection for social weakness, and that there is a transitional period, in particular for older people, the so-called protection of trust, that there is security for pensioners that there is no reduction in their existing pensions. – We did this together, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If I say justice to all professional groups, it is right, because it is simply the fact that we are taking an essential step with this step towards harmonizing the design, in the direction of retirement provisions and also towards pension valorizations for workers, employees, tradesmen and farmers, which is perceived by people as such. This harmonisation, this justice, is perceived by people as very positive. That is why this Federal Government stands for this reform. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Justice for Social Affairs Weak offers a system – and this is why we have chosen quite consciously – where those with lower incomes have to contribute less and those with higher incomes have to contribute more. This means that there will also be a socially advanced cover for the effects of this pension reform. This federal government is committed to social justice. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Justice for women is achieved by the fact that in the future, we will take child training times much better into account than we did in the past. However, we also make justice for women by providing – and it is usually women who care for relatives – for the first time with the opportunity to reach a pension through family care, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And justice for women is also achieved by including minor employees in social security. And this federal government stands for justice for women! Justice for pensioners: I think it is important to have said clearly from the outset – and indeed to prove it – that we do not attack existing pensions, that we will not cut them off. We are, together, grateful to the pensioners' organizations for making a better balance between the pensions of compensation recipients who are socially weak, by providing higher benefits in the future, in the case of the increase in pensions, which in total has been about the rate of inflation. That too is social justice! They have contributed to the Pensionist Associations of Government Parties. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to point out, however, that from my point of view, it is a piece of social justice for older workers that we have created the protection of trust, namely the transitional arrangements, and that at the same time we have developed instruments, such as the sliding board with the right to part-time and a solidarity model for employment within the enterprises, which give older workers the opportunity to stay in the holding. This is social justice for older workers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have achieved justice for the young by creating a much more secure future that we have not been burdened by higher contributions to their active income in young years when they need it to create a house stand, a family. We have for good reason renounced higher contributions and created a reform that gives the young people in our very good payment system the chance to get a pension once too. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to take a very brief look at the three-pillar model that you have promoted, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. I believe that there would be openness and honesty: The three-pillar model does not take into account any times of unemployment! The three-pillar model does not take into account a compensation allowance for older workers in this country! The three-pillar model does not take into account child rearing time! That is why the three-pillar model proposed by you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, is an unsocial model! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has rightly assumed the payment procedure. That's where you wrong quote, ladies and gentlemen of the Freeman, Professor Rürup. He says that the charging process, this generation principle in Austria, is good, be excellent, is one of the best in the world. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It's all so great anyway!]] We will ensure its financing if we put in place these measures. As the Austrian Federal Government, we want to trust this generation in future, to stick to this charging process. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why are the checkouts empty when everything's so good?]] Ladies and gentlemen! To your excitement about the railways, which may be related to the fact that the election result for the Communists was better than that for the liberals. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the In the magazine "The railwayman" of October 1997, says literally – I quote – that on October 10, 1997. On October 9, 1997, a letter from the Federal Minister for Science and Transport Dr. A letter was received – including the staff representatives of the railways – in which the Board of Directors was invited to open negotiations. I ask you: That's secrecy? [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate keeps a magazine up to date.]] This is the case for any railway operator, any railway operator. [[Abg. Gaugg: Read more!]] I don't know where you're reading anything about secrecy? I would therefore ask you to operate less here with false claims, rather than to note that this information has already been received to any railway operator and to any railway operator in October of this year. Now a few words about your comments on therup opinion. Can I ask you something? Are you of the opinion that we should have implemented the Rules of Procedure? – Well, no answer, is also fine! Ladies and gentlemen! There's a big difference: Experts are there to draw up a variety of proposals, to identify trends and to increase all of these. But I would warn you, as a Member of this House, that you will be able to take the strength to make political decisions and simply implement expert opinions. [[Abg. Wabl: Nobody asked us!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What would the proposal of Professor Rürup mean? – Would you have been in favour of this, as Professor Rürup suggested, of raising the retirement age of women not in 2018, as we have established, but already in 2005? I hope not! We have not implemented thisrup proposal – to protect women, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It would also have meant that there would have been a dramatic reduction in their pensions for the disabled and the disabled. For this reason, the Federal Government has developed a socially acceptable solution on the basis of an expert proposal. We were not willing to accept that each pension is on average reduced by 20 per cent as proposed by Professor Rürup, including minimum pensions and short-term pensions. We as the Federal Government were not ready for this despite expert proposals because of our social attitude! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to your specific questions: Questions 1 to 6: The Protocol to the Protocol to the Convention on the Functioning of the European Union to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part. October 1997, which is nothing "Federal Minister The ÖBB's bodies will immediately be invited to enter into negotiations with the ÖBB's pension reform staff, with a view to reaching agreement on the re-regulation of pension rights (analog of the civil servants and the ASVG) before the decision is taken in the National Council's plenary session, which is due to take place in November 1997. If necessary, a simple legal basis will be decided by the Federal Government in due time. ==References== October, i.e. on the same day, is a letter – I have already quoted it – from the Federal Minister One to the trade union and to the board of directors of the ÖBB that negotiations must be started. Of course, it is necessary to know what happened in the other areas in the first place in order to start negotiations. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Of course! We cannot start negotiations if we do not know the basis of these negotiations. In this context, I would like to say very clearly, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in principle – that is the answer to question 7 – to the harmonisation of pension systems. But I'm not willing to "cross" about trade unions, about personnel representatives. We've always said: We want to negotiate and we want to achieve a result in the negotiations! That is why we will also negotiate this time, just as we have done with the public service. I personally, but also the other members of the Federal Government have always signaled dialogue and negotiation, and there has also been a common outcome. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that there will also be a common result for railways. We should also ensure that these negotiations are conducted in peace and in a social partnership atmosphere, and I am sure that there will be a common outcome. [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Question 8: Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the first discussion, it was agreed that for further negotiations all the details and the necessary data material, i.e. all necessary documents, will be collected and compiled. Negotiations will continue next week. Questions 9 and 10: I say it again clearly and clearly: We want to achieve the solutions in agreement in negotiations with the railways, with the staff representatives of the railways. I am convinced that we will succeed. We all know the legal problem, or we all know that constitutional provisions in private contracts are not to be intervened – this has always been clearly rejected by the Federal Government – because then we are faced with this issue the next time with the purchase contracts, with the lease contracts and with similar contracts. We will therefore develop a common solution which defines the equivalence of the provisions. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what we'll look at!]] They did not believe in the other pension systems that we would reach a common solution. We've reached it! Be patient! You will see that we can achieve it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What have you achieved?]] Questions 11 to 16: I could actually refer to the statements made by Mr Wittmann, the Secretary of State, last Friday, which touched on the same subject on the subject. – The entire area of political relations was re-regulated before the summer. The new rules and restrictions were not designed for themselves by the politicians, but were based on the proposal of an independent committee of experts, which was chaired by the President of the Court of Auditors and belonged to the six other highly respected personalities. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now the experts apply again! I can't do that with therup!]] Politics has even made it even more intense when these experts suggested, as you know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] They were really the only ones who did not take part in this bow of reason. Among these personalities were the Presidents of the Chambers of Economic Trustees and Lawyers, members of Supreme Courts and so on. The proposal has been implemented by four of the five political groups in this House in some form even stronger than originally proposed. As you know, for new politicians political pensions have been completely abolished, only claims already acquired have been taken into account in a transitional arrangement. The income cover you have called for, there is no way for politicians to do so in any way they have always done. In this connection, I quote Mr Haselsteiner, who is probably an unwarranted witness, who has emphasized in this House that the reform of political relations persists every "third comparison", the comparison with the corresponding rules in the private sector. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Should he be suspicious?]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no system behind this ongoing enlargement of politicians, namely that perhaps only more large-scale industrial and bearer owners can be represented in Parliament in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't get Polish!]] Questions 17 to 20: At this point, I should like to point out that your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is explicitly wrong. Professor Rürup never proposes to transfer the existing payment system to a three-stage model. Rather, the system financed is to be maintained by appropriate adjustments at its high level. If there is a need for a second and third pillar beyond the maximum contribution base, then there is the possibility of doing so in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Since when?]] There are very good possibilities with a very modern pension fund law and also the possibility of a tax-advanced individual provision, which of course has a social cover. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You abolished that!]] I am not in favour of giving the income millionary 50 per cent tax privilege for his private pension provision, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say: I believe that with the current net adjustment of about 70 per cent in the area of farmers, tradesmen and workers and employees, we have already achieved the level of payment. I believe that it is important that in future we ensure that older workers have the opportunity to work. This will be a very effective measure to secure our pension system in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On question 21: Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is unfortunate that companies seem to appreciate less experience, knowledge and company loyalty from older workers than they did in the past. However, I would prefer that companies on social plans ensure that older workers can bridge the age of 60 by the age of 60, than that they are put on the street and are unemployed. They claim, for example, that the post model causes more social security costs. That's not right! These are social and solidarity models that companies themselves finance in the form of social plans. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Anyone has to pay it!]] To sum up, I believe that with this step we have created a lot more justice, a lot more security of the future for the people of our country. We are already facing the next task of making our country fit for the new millennium. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: On pension reform!]] You can't stop that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9908	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. We are going into the debate. It is known that each political group has a speaking time of 25 minutes and each speaker has a maximum of 10 minutes. The first speaker to speak is Mr Dr. Haider. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9938	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! No human being, and not even the Group of the Party of European Socialists, wants to prevent you from making this country fit. Just tell us how this works. No one would have prevented you from ruining the VEST and not reducing 40 000 jobs there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It would not have prevented you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, from caring for the post properly and not taking advantage of the profits and leaving them with debt, so that 10,000 posters should now be dismantled. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] It would not have prevented you, ladies and gentlemen, from making the ÖBB fit in time, so that they would not have had to dismantle 10,000 railways and not have to be dismantled 3 500 railways. It would not have prevented you from making the AMAG fit and preventing the loss of 9 000 jobs there. It would not have prevented you, Mr Bundeskanzler, from coming here before Parliament and telling the full truth about the railway pension discussion. Federal Chancellor! You read this paper to the socialist trade unionists. [[The speaker keeps a magazine up to date.]] There's a little more inside than you read. For example, Mr Nowak, the head of the railway union, says: "As in the government clause of Rust, the ÖVP is now calling for equivalent measures for the future ÖBB-pensionists." - So the ÖVP is to blame. – "As a result of the recent strong demands of the Austrian People's Party, it lasted on 10 June. October 1997 a letter from the Federal Minister for Science and Transport Dr. One of us in which he invites us to open negotiations with the Board of Directors of the ÖBB. Negotiations are currently not up-to-date due to the above-mentioned clear decision of the ÖGB Board of Directors. On the occasion of the ÖBB disbursement at the time, the Federal Government has promised us that the right of employment, remuneration and pension rights of employees will not be affected." [[Call to the liberals:Ah!]] Untouched! I quote: "Whoever wants to break joint agreements within two years" – that is, Mr. Federal Chancellor – "is neither serious nor democratic nor social," your SPÖ says. "We therefore expect to become fair and not contractable." – That’s what Mr Nowak said. He then writes to the ÖBB staff before the election: "The law of the railways must not be affected. The commitment of the policy that railways' rights must remain unchanged must be respected. For this to happen, the ÖVP must also be the coalition partner of the SPÖ." – So they told you! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here!]] But now the Federal Chancellor is making himself here and saying: We're going to negotiate all of this in consensus! – He apparently had a traumatic experience when – for the first time – he washed out his own comrades on the union day, and now he is at once for a consensus, the Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you really want that, Federal Chancellor, I ask you why you did this on 10 October. In the Protocol to the Council of Ministers on October, the following decisions were adopted: "There is a need to start negotiations with a view to negotiating the ÖBB-pension reform at the same time as the pension reform. If necessary" – as stated in the decision – "if there is no contractual solution, a simple legal basis will be decided by the Federal Government in due time." [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here!]] So what about consensus now, Mr. Federal Chancellor? They're threatening: If your railways don't bend you and if you don't agree to the negotiation solutions, I, climate, will "overrun" with the law on the contractual obligations and take away your pension right! – You did not say that here, Federal Chancellor! These are your decisions to which you should finally confess. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's what it's all about. If you want to harmonise, we say: Yes!, but then, please, everywhere and not only where it is possible. It is starting in the field of politics. It is not unfair if we ask: Harmonise also in the field of politics! It can't be true that after four years a minister has 85 000 s of pension cover in his pocket, measured by the maximum cover of a section manager, but with the small ASVG insured person you want to calculate for 18 or 20 years. You will have to explain to the Austrians why politics has a special position on this question! We say: Turn around, it's a corrupt path you're going there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Next point: What about social security staff pensions? Those people who manage the pension funds have a special right? Is there no change, no calculation period planned? That can't be possible! Only 50 percent of supplementary pensions for social security staff are covered by contributions. When it comes to the tradesmen and the farmers, the socialists come out and say: There must be higher contributions, because there is a sub-funding of pensions! But the farmers are pensioners between 4 000 S and 7 000 S, while the employees of the social security institutions are pensioners of 60 000 S or 70 000 S, not even 50 percent of the costs are paid by contributions. You'll leave it all unchanged! Therefore, because red and black beans are affected in the social security institutions, nothing changes, and that's why it's your trutzburgen you need to survive politically, nothing changes! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] Or: What are the pensions of the employees of the Austrian National Bank? – There you pay two percent pension contributions so that each of the employees there on average carries more than 1 million Schilling to pension home. For not even 900 pensioners 903 million Schilling pension! Yeah, don't you get used to being slow?- Oh, my God! For a politician a pension grant of 640 000 S per year! Yes, that's not to be done if, on the other hand, I keep up with the small ASVG pensioners or the commercial pensioners new contributions by saying: It's no longer financeable!Unknown term type: "%s".? Federal Chancellor! What have you harmonised? Here you make yourself and try to explain this to us. The Federal Chamber is no longer represented today because it has last noticed that 15 billion schillings of special obligations have already been made for the special pensions in the Chamber State. This is as much as the federal government has to shoot for all the railways. Here the chamber officials go out and say: At the railway we take away, but at the Federal Chamber everything remains with the old, we cut out the forced contributions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is where the Federal Chancellor goes and says that he is happy when the older workers have jobs, and where things are no longer going, one has to see that there is a social plan. Now I ask you: Where are the early retirement actions currently so steep in progress? – This is the case with the post office – public enterprises, state-owned companies. This is the case with the railway – state-owned companies. These are the areas for which you have the responsibility! This is also the case with the Austrian Federal Forests. Yes, you do not know the agreement that the Austrian Federal Forests have concluded as your company? They say, Federal Chancellor, there are no public funds involved. You're really talking like the blind one about the color. It is expressly in that people should go to early retirement, and before you reach the retirement age, they will be sent to stamp, saying: public funds are spent, and the difference to 80 percent of the last relationship pays the company. Again, the public hand pays. That's the policy you're making! Unbelievable! You announce something different than we can actually observe your actions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Justifiable is that, he says!]] What an honest policy, Mr Bundeskanzler, if you say: Justifiably harmonised!, and then there is a circular letter at the post, in which Mr Ditz, who has long been a member of the Federal Government, reports that those executives in the post, who throw out most people, have the best career opportunities. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Crazy!]] It's literally in there! This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. That's why you're not believed, Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is the system of justice!]] Federal Chancellor! They go here and say that you have to do something for the youth, too, for the apprentices. You have also announced a great deal of action. Today, Mrs Gehrer told you in the "Mitagsjournal", the solution you represent, was wrong. Moreover, it would only have announced it to you and not the entire federal government. So: If you say so, it is not worth it if the Federal Government announces it, it obviously applies. Mr Rudas, on the other hand, has told Mrs Gehrer today. The Secretary-General of the Party owes leave to Mr Klima's colleague. No one knows what's really going on. No one knows what's going on. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are states!]] They should finally lead in this Federal Government, and lead is to harmonise the pension system. Start with the politicians! Do not take out the protected areas! Go into social security! Go into the ÖVUs! Take care of the chamber officials! Take care of the room's pensions! Take care of the ÖGB and all the self-named saviors of the evening country! Then no one will prevent you from bringing this republic forward, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then your government will have the opportunity to create the future. But not with two measures, as you do: One will be carried down, and the other one will be gilded in life. Federal Chancellor! Now to your statement, the three-pillar model doesn't fit you. I think you do. Learn how it works in Switzerland, where it was introduced twelve years ago! First pillar: social compensation, redistribution, without a maximum contribution basis. Dear ÖMV-Millionary climate! Without a maximum contribution basis, the rich pay for the poor so that there are not as disgraceful ASVG-pensions as in Austria, where two-thirds less than 10 000 S pension. According to the Swiss model, every pensioner has over 10 000 s of basic pension.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10119	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10134	According to the Swiss model, every pensioner has over 10,000 s of basic pension – that is the reality! – also protected against disability, including occupational incapacity, also protected from life's inconsistencies. Therefore, I recommend you: Study First, before you go here and tell the Austrians the untruth!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10167	Mrs Silhavy spoke in favour of an actual correction. [[Call to the liberals: Oh!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are telling us something about the justice of the Federal Chancellor!]] I would ask you first to repeat the claim to be corrected and then to compare it with the actual facts. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10209	Mr President. In his contribution to the debate, Mr Gaugg said that the number of early pensioners had increased. That's wrong! I would like to reject this claim in two points. It is true, first of all, that there is no legal term "early pensioners". [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] There are early retirement pensions, occupational incapacity pensions, invalidity pensions, pensions for reduced working capacity. I would therefore like to make this clear so that everyone is aware of what we are talking about. Secondly, It is true that the number of applicants declined from January to September of this year compared to the previous year.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10246	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have been called upon by the President-in-Office to strictly handle the actual correction. This must work in such a way that the claim to be corrected is first reflected and then compared to the actual facts. This must not be a contribution to debate. I ask you to leave the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Silhavy leaves the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That was really great!]] The next actual correction is from Mrs Gisela Wurm.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10298	High house! Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Gaugg, in his speech, said that all Members would receive a political pension here. [[Call to the liberals: No, certainly not! Wrong again!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: He didn't say "all"! So don't listen!]] Anyway, I can say, Right is...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10340	I call Mrs Wurm, who represents a claim and opposes a matter. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies Mag. Instead, it is Gisela Worm Right that most of the Members present here receive an ASVG-pension like any other Austrian and any other Austrian. [[Continue]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10380	I have a further desire for actual correction, namely by Mr Dietachmayr. Please do not bother the President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10404	Mr President. Federal Minister! Sorry! Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Gaugg: This is a degradation!]] Mr Haider said in his contribution to the debate that there was an early retirement action at the ÖBB. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I didn't say that!]] I'll put it right: There is no early retirement action at the ÖBB!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10458	Mrs Inge Jäger came to the point of correcting the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10485	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Haider claimed that there is a protocol note from the Council of Ministers that, if there is no agreement with the railway industry, the measures should be decided simply by law. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (keeping a document in height) That's in there!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] That's wrong! It is true, rather, that a simple legal basis should only be adopted in the event that this is necessary on a legal basis. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Federal Chancellor has read this!]] This does not mean that there will be no agreement with the railways.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10559	Mr Guggenberger has referred to an actual correction. I would ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10583	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg has reported that the number of early pensioners has increased. That's wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They don't exist at all!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: He said in certain areas!]] The number of applications for early retirement is this year 1st. January to September by 26 percent and the number of allocations dropped by 17 percent. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10645	The next item is Mrs Reitsamer's speech. Voluntary speaking time: 7 minutes, maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10666	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a good thing that we have not allowed Mr Haider to lock down Donawitz. That's what he wanted! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Poor applause at the SPÖ!]] Now go back to the urgent request. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Poor applause at the SPÖ!]] Your arguments will not be better if you make them louder. This is a mistake, Mr Stadler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] You said that Professor Rürup felt that the pension reform would be a compromise. Yeah, she's a compromise! [[Abg. Gaugg: A punch!]] Because compromise is a very important prerequisite for those who have political responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: That's a punch!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Weak applause at the SPÖ!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] That's it. You don't have this ability, it was only yesterday that you were informed again. [[Abg. Gaugg:... Chaired! But you know what's going on!]] They complain that the savings amount to only 3 percent, talk about a money acquisition action, and say that 20 percent would be necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I have told you last time that there must be a difference between the objectives that an expert sets out and the political responsibility. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why did the union vote against it?]] Radical solutions would mean radical hardness. However, the goal of therup opinion is fulfilled: more justice between generations! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Failed!]] They also claim that Professor Rürup had broken a lance for mixed pension financing. ==References====External links== October states: Working around the old payroll system doesn't matter. How do you explain that? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Did the Federal Chancellor put this up for you?]] An opinion from the Society for Insurance Sciences – I quote literally – is opposed to this: In view of its level of contributions and benefits, statutory pension insurance is in principle properly financed in the payment procedure. A complete conversion of the financing of the expectations and claims of statutory pension insurance from remuneration to capital cover does not appear to be useful or possible. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: "I am very much for the three-pillar model," said the Guger!]] They address justice to the boys and speak the word to the three-pillar model. What would that mean? – For the boys, you have already propagated four pillars: on the one hand, the contributions for the older generation, then the contributions to the payment process, on the other, the contribution of the employee to occupational care and, on the other hand, the contributions to self-sufficiency. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: "I am very much for the three-pillar model," said the Guger! Your expert!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where to chair!]] The young people will be grateful when they come up with what you have put in their nest for a cuckoo! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: For the protocol: even weaker applause at the SPÖ!]] Is the capitalised procedure more critical? - No! The pension funds must make the money: 40 percent in Schilling bonds, 40 percent in shares and securities – 15 percent of them domestic papers, 25 percent foreign – and 20 percent in real estates. Is that redistributive? - I'm saying no. Renting and real estate prices are thus going up. But you represent the hardy, brave, little Austrians. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should have justified that!]] How do you explain this contradiction? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] I can also point out on the stock exchange crash. I've already said how the shares in the investments are. The question of safety, as measured by the age pyramid, must also be answered negatively. Example Japan: They already have the demographic problems that are forecast for 2020. That means they have to melt down capital sticks. The result is a course spiral down. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Did the Federal Chancellor put this on you?]] - I don't need anyone to differ from you! – In any case, our charging process is inflation-proof. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would just like to address one more point, namely justice for minor employees. Time and again, the service provider's obligation to contribute: The opting-in of the staff is not possible. – It may already be that it is not possible for some who have only such an employment relationship; therefore also the opt-in. But crying for service providers really makes you appear in a very special light. I remember a donation call made by Mr. "College Buchstabier", a call to the entrepreneurs when it came to the establishment of a union. It wants to be independent, so the economic operators may donate. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Pseudogewerkschaft!]] Yes, of course! With a fictitious union contribution of 1 Schilling, I am certainly independent of the employee – but I am going into the hostagery of the service provider! That's probably meant to be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Even weaker applause at the SPÖ!]] You said you wouldn't agree to deterioration. They also did not agree to improvements, and the Austrians will not forget that.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10990	The next speaker is Mr Kukacka. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11012	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! It has not impressed us very much what the Freedom Party has so far presented in the urgent question. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is not the intention to impress you!]] That was just the second time of Friday's presentation and nothing new at all: the same half-truths, the same precepts, the same adaptations and bad-making of politicians, the same accusations, the attempts to play the same groups against each other over and over again. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Managing Director! They are easy to do with a subsidy of 160 million!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. "Volksblatt" Managing Director!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] The same repetitions, Mr President, do not make your remarks better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: With 160 million from the taxpayer!]] You only prove that you are unbelievable with your policy, because today the Freedom Party is playing as... – Let me come to the issue! [[Abg. May. Stadler: With both hands he pulls it out! 160 million for the "Volksblatt"! Mr. Managing Director!]] We are still talking about this subject. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 160 million alone for his needy paper! 160 million! I'd be better off than that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Helmut, it's your time!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr President, I should like to thank They are unable and unwilling to deal with your arguments on today's subject. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are a subsidy recipient! Take it out with both hands!]] You must always avoid other topics because you are not able to offer us and our arguments here Paroli! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: 160 million!]] You deliver today the same ludicrous play you delivered on Friday. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If today Mr. Gaugg and Mr. Haider produce themselves as defenders of the railways, I would like to tell you what Mr. Haider said on 17 November. 9. 1995 in the "Small Newspaper": [[Abg. May. Stadler: With 160 million you can get right!]] It is not to explain why the ÖBB-buschoffeur retired earlier than the bus driver of a travel agency who runs the same route. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Assign to the others what they should take over!]] [[Further calls.]] It must be said once: Friends, the church day's over! – That’s what you think of the railways! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: At the expense of taxpayers you can talk big!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] For us it was always clear that the pension reform is an overall concept covering all employment conditions and all pension systems. The key elements of the reform – the harmonisation of the pension system, the extension of the calculation periods and the increase in the actual retirement age – must, of course, apply to all in this country, in the sense of justice for all the workers – including politicians – in the sense of solidarity among all workers and in the sense of the constitutional command to treat all citizens by the state. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Also for politicians!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes, then it will! Why isn't that yet? You don't want it with the railways!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why it was clear to us from the outset that the staff of the ÖBB will and must also be covered by the equal treatment law. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Such a needy paper! 160 million aren't cracks!]] And that's why we didn't leave anyone in the dark about what we wanted. I would therefore like to present a clear chronology. Already in the government paper on the Civil Service Law, it is in the form of clear and clear reading for each Member: Equal pension reform measures are also applied in the area of the existing pension right of the Austrian Federal Railways. So it was already clear before the personnel representation elections that no one was lying and that nothing was concealed. I therefore insist: The government has not concealed anything, and the leading trade union representatives of the Federal Railways already have before the personnel representation elections – these are known to have from 4 to 6. November this year – well-known what the government intends to do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] This statement in the form of the Government template is also the consequence of the protocol note of the Council of Ministers of the 10th century. 10. which notes that negotiations with the ÖBB Union are to be conducted, which will reach agreement in November, with a simple legal basis to be adopted by the Federal Government in due time, if necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! That is what we are confessing, and we are, of course, in favour of it. I am optimistic that there will be a system which is equivalent to that which applies in the public service and which has also been found for the post already distributed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want and cannot anticipate these negotiations, nor do I want to question the legal quality of this solution: whether it will be amended by the Federal Railways Act or whether the individual service contracts of the ÖBB staff will be amended. Only the same result must be achieved: equal treatment for the staff of the Austrian Federal Railways with regard to the harmonisation, the calculation and the increase in the actual retirement age. Not the way, but the goal is important to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The railway provides significant services for the Austrian transport industry, in particular the growth rates in freight transport can be seen. This too is the merit of many thousands of employees on the railway, whose achievements we want to honour from this point of view and which undoubtedly do not deserve their money easily. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] On the occasion of today's discussion, it will also be possible to mention that the taxpayers make substantial contributions to the Austrian Federal Railways, which also benefit, in particular, the approximately 57 000 ÖBB active persons and the approximately 74 000 pensioners. After all, the federal government pays for public service benefits from its budget of 8.8 billion schilling for the railway infrastructure, 12.3 billion in salaries, it pays for the infrastructure sector, which is half financed by the federal government, 11 billion schilling and 16 billion schilling for pension payments. After all, this year, 48.12 billion Schilling is being made available from the budget for the Austrian Federal Railways. That is why I do not think it justified if the Railway Union now acts in connection with the pension reform as if the Austrian Federal Railways had nothing more to do with the State. One thing must be clear to us: without a state, without a federal government, without a tax pot, no Austrian federal railways! That is why I also think it is natural that the new pension right is also applied to the railways. Of course, I also think it is politically legitimate if the railway industry consistently defends its interests and interests of the ÖBB staff and takes out the optimum for them. But there must not only be group interests, but also the general interest and the common good must be taken into account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Endless applause at the ÖVP!]] It is the most important task of the legislator and Parliament to serve the general public interest and to bring about the necessary social solidarity on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I think we are all convinced that there must also be a solution on this issue: a solution which can only fall at government level in accordance with the agreements and which is also in the interest of the railways. Otherwise, they will have to be accused of privileges in the future, and that is neither in their nor in our interest.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11349	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. The clock is set to 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11370	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! So simple, Federal Chancellor, you must not do this, nor must your colleagues from the government groups. It's not that simple. I want to put my finger on the wound... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now the Lord Master Teacher Kier comes and tells us all exactly how it is!]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! If you continue to work with verbal jury here, that's your style! I don't like that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you want to hear verbal jury now?]] – I only hear from you verbal jury, so the question is actually tautological. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Is "superinstructor" a verbal jury?]] Federal Chancellor! You can't do it that easy. There is a real problem with the Bundesbahnen: You're wrong with the distribution. If you do not admit that, you make a mistake, because you will not proceed quite well, as you are now planning it, with simple legislation in the event that the negotiations with the railways fail. For negotiations with the railway union would require that it have a negotiating mandate at all in this case. If you knew what the matter really is – apparently you don't know – then you knew it was about individual contracts. This is the Gordian knot, which obviously has to be cut through. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For the Protocol: Random Nicking by my colleague Hums!]] You can't do it that easy. Show me the simple legal arrangement with which you intervene in individual contracts! This mistake... – Yes, you don't want to! [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: We don't want that at all!]] But if you don't want to, you can't make such a regulation either. You can negotiate a good will with the trade union, but you must then force each individual railway operator to enter into a new contract. I don't know how the union will do this. There may be a movement of escape from the union, but not a new one. That is why you have missed out on this issue. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you don't understand, make a mistake. Because then you will have the theme on the table forever and ever, so to speak, until the last of the old pensioners has died, and that will take 30, 40 years. I therefore believe that you should not make it as easy and should not act as if this were a question of negotiations to be held first. Also the ÖVP in the parent book: To call for negotiations, which we know are not able to achieve at all in the form required, this is a by-window-out-some-some-thing-thing. So you have a real problem. The next real problem you will of course get with the chambers. Because the chambers are organizational forms of self-government, and then I look at how you will eliminate what you have developed there in decades of privileges. This will also not be quite so easy, except for self-cleaning in these organizations. But there are also some individual contracts there. Therefore, you will not find out so easily from this thickness of your own jungle. Harmonization is a hard task, which is not easy to solve. They are holding our motion in hand, because the Liberal Group has tabled a self-employed motion for a resolution which is still under consideration of the Committee. It seems that the colleague Reitsamer has not put him on the agenda until today, because she has recognized that our request will remain up-to-date even if you now make a reform – you call it so. It has therefore taken care to ensure that we can deal with it at one of the next Social Committee debates. This is aimed at full harmonisation. Their own chairman in the Committee on Social Affairs has not negotiated this request, for example now, together with the budget accompanying laws or with the ADRAG. This would have been logical if it itself felt that the ASRAG was a harmonisation. It has, however, recognised that this request will continue and can only be negotiated afterwards. That is why I say to you: They themselves admit that it is not yet harmonised! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Because Professor Rürup has been mentioned several times: He has shown a volume of 20 percent in his policy mix, and you've only implemented 3 percent of this volume. That's just one sixth. No one has asked you to do everythingrup says, to make the point and to make the point. But you didn't even meet his minimum standards. Rürup has repeatedly spoken out, last but not least again in a very interesting supplement in the "standard": Life income is still out of sight as a basis of assessment, uniform increases are still not in sight, the rapid approximation of the retirement age is not in view. The real recording of all the persons in employment is your failure, the times of indebtedness are still not commuted with contributions. Although you have recognized a little something with the mothers – but where are the equivalent payments for the federal army soldiers? - Nothing else. Rürup also calls for incentives to expand the private pension insurance area. That's what he's calling for! In addition, it explicitly states that the payment system of the high standard of living cannot be maintained in the long term. So please: What does that mean? And he says: In this gap, self-sufficiency should occur. Rürup says that in Austria the best is 10 percent, but he thinks it should be at least 25 to 30 percent. Take note, therefore, of the following: Rürup is also for a dual system and not for a system based exclusively on payment funding, but for a dual system that gives more room for self-sufficiency. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] And you should take note of this! So from the policy mix you have only implemented fragments, the overall harmonisation has not succeeded you. The urgent question may be as unpleasant as it is in some detail, but in the core, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you make a serious mistake if you claim here that the world is healed, and the opposition – in particular the applicants – is evil. She may be angry at times, but that's where she hit the point, and that's why it doesn't help you at all. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Another point of view, Mr Bundeskanzler: If you really believe – and I would almost ask you for a second speech – that you can solve the railway problem in some way by negotiating with the trade union and/or by means of simple legal regulations, then at least tell us how! I would like to ask you to do so. But it's only going to happen if everyone else pulls on a knit. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Kier, he has expressly excluded a constitutional right!]] – Yes, to what you have come to know – and I welcome it – not to want to resort to a constitutional provision. I welcome that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what I'm looking at!]] That would have been the only way, however, Mr Bundeskanzler, because what you would simply have to do would have been expropriating character. If you really want to expropriate, then you will need a Constitutional Act, otherwise the Constitutional Court – you know that – will provide you with an appropriate knowledge. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: We don't want that!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: For the Protocol: The Federal Chancellor says: We don't want that!]] And in this case, we would even be in principle – in contrast to other insights, where we do not rejoice so much – at the side of the Constitutional Court, because unilateral and indemnity-free expropriation is not good. It is fair to mention that. Therefore: How, Mr. Federal Chancellor, do you want to do this? Either you're going out of this government bank for a second time today, or you're silent. If you are silent, then we will know that this is also an answer – I repeat: this is also an answer – because simply interfering in contracts will not be possible, but it may be to be considered whether one should think about the clause once, whether all of these contracts, which concerns them, have not been concluded under other circumstances. I've been thinking about it, but unfortunately – as long as the distribution has not yet been done – you have spoiled or could not have done it from A to Z. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Meisinger]] In order to achieve the present situation, that the Republic should in any case pay the pensions, you could have left the dispensation. We now have the problem of the Director-General being able to give the work organisation instructions, but the Republic is paying the terms – simplified. They are thus split up, as it were, the workers: On the one hand is now a distributed organization, a legal entity that works before itself, and on the other hand, the pensioners who are paid by the federal government. Anyone who goes to retirement on the train earlier is a gift, because he's gone earlier. - It's on all four feet! We recognize that there is a different regulation for the new railways. However, due to the relatively high levels of staffing and structural needs, the resumptions of the rare case and the longer-serving old stock are the more frequent case. In a company where there are more pensioners than active, the pension problem is just a double one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11556	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11577	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Kier has taken the job of explaining the problem of railway pensions, I ask again the question, Mr Bundeskanzler, and really ask you to answer them as well: How do you imagine that? How do you intend to intervene in individual employment contracts through negotiations with the railway industry? It's impossible to think! You can't do that! In this respect, you owe us an answer. Mr Khol! It may also be that you want to give us this answer. It would surprise me. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, the Dr. Feurstein! Dr. Feurstein will give them!]] The same problem that we have with the railways, of course, also arises in other areas. Mr Kier mentioned it already: As far as the Chambers are concerned, there are pension schemes based on individual contracts, and in these areas too, there is the need to implement and implement harmonisation, and there are also problems. Otherwise, Mr Haider, it looks like social security. There is also, of course, a problem, but first of all it is not individual contracts, it is collective agreements, and secondly, what you have not mentioned, there are probably additional contributions that are linked to income or to the maximum contribution basis. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 50 percent!]] I give you the right to talk about it, too, in the area of social security, because it cannot be said that those who pay the pensions are entitled to higher pensions than those to whom pensions are paid. That is a question of justice, and this question, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you must already accept! The same applies to other groups and should apply to groups which have so far been completely excluded from the consideration. This, of course, also applies to the chambers to a similar extent, although it will be much more difficult to achieve. No matter whether it concerns the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Labour or the small chambers in which the regulations and also the wild growth in these regulations are not apparent, because they concern only a few dozen persons. Nevertheless, the question of justice, especially for the contributors, is raised, because in this case the contributors are the mandatory members of these chambers, which enable this pension system – without being asked – to be applied for. In contrast to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, who meant that the railway union had, as it were, already announced its willingness to negotiate by the fact that a sheet of the Social Democratic Group pointed out... [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: I just said it wasn't secret! That was the accusation that it was secret, and I said it wasn't secret!]] All right, Federal Chancellor, I take note of this, but the fact remains, of course, that there have already been cards that have been played with a little bit of sunk cards. Mr Hums, you will have to confirm this to me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You will have to confirm to me that, on the one hand, railway workers may have been very familiar with the fact that there will be serious after-negotiations for a future pension system, but that, of course, before the elections that took place this weekend, we did not want to bring this fact to the public to the extent that it is said that we are ready to negotiate. That would interest me, Mr. Hums. You have the opportunity to explain how you imagine it. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's where you turned something together!]] In contrast to the colleague of the Socialist Group, I believe that it is not a lot in this House that will in fact be regarded as harmonised. There are few colleagues here in the house who will in future pay their pension contributions after the ASVG and receive an ASVG-pension. This is not the majority, it is a minority. This is also the manco of this relationship scheme, as it was decided that, with too many exceptions and transitional provisions, it will only create the conditions for a small group of Members – namely the newly introduced – to receive an ASVG-pension at all. In contrast to Mr Haider, I am one of those who receive this ASVG pension and whom they also want, because I stand for it and I do not wish to make use of this opportunity, which would be possible to opt out of the old pension system. I think it is right that this new regulation has been implemented. I think that this is progress, but with these possibilities which have also been created for the newly introduced Members, but which are still entering the old system, there are too many exceptions to the fact that this scheme would actually become credible to the fullest extent. This leads to a problem with our credibility: In the public presentation we have a problem of credibility on this issue. As far as Mr Haider is concerned, however, I do not think that we can hold a debate on a conversion period. In the case of the new Members, the calculation according to the ASVG is applied, but the old Members have to introduce a settlement period if a pension entitlement can be acquired after four or five years, is a duck. Either there is this pension claim – then you can not introduce a calculation period – or there is no such pension claim. Then you have to say: We also want to negotiate a completely new system for all the old Members, for all who are already on retirement. You, Mr Haider, as well as I and everyone else, know that this is not the case. Leave So please fall the fiction of the calculation period for the political pensions! Such a one is not possible. We should talk about where, in this system that we have negotiated, in all the other areas of the semi-governmental economy, of self-managed enterprises and organisations – i.e. the chambers, social security and the associated authorities – are possible adaptations. This should be done in a climate in which such negotiations are also possible. I therefore thought it was not that bad a proposal to move this debate that we are now holding to another place or area, and in fact to deal with an independent body with a more detailed examination of pension systems in this area, as was the case with the study of the advisory committee already in 1992. This can be a body of independent experts, just as in relation laws. I'd be very much for that. We shall also make an appropriate request at one of the next meetings, because such a question may be helpful to the jumps. What I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, but I would ask you to explain how you are about the idea of harmonisation, whether you are for it or against it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That is what we have said: start with politicians, and then we are for that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We already said that!]] If I look at your statements – even in the documents today – I cannot see that your side actually represents harmonisation if you complain on the one hand of the considerable burden created by harmonisation, but on the other hand I want to see this harmonisation as a prerequisite. You can't continue to run this tree-change-dish game ad infinitum, you have to say sometime, you have to explain how you imagine that. If I look more closely at your paper, which you have presented today, this request, in which, on the one hand, you ask for a transitional period of 10 years for older workers - I suppose, ASVG - and on the other, for officials a transitional period of 20 years, I must say: In a detail – which is not the most important thing I admit – you are obviously not prepared to achieve effective harmonisation. It's not that way! If I look at your pension system – and I now only know three pages of your three-pillar model – I must tell you, Mr Stadler: With these three pages of paper, we would not trust to hold a pension debate on a new model. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I will send you a few more pages!]] All right, but I would also like to have the opportunity to talk about a system which provides for fundamental changes. You should not make the mistake of recurring on the Swiss model here, because the Swiss model, including the second and third columns, is fundamentally different from your model and has fundamental risks in relation to it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you prefer Holland?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We can also talk about Holland!]] If we are discussing capital coverage procedures – what you are here praising as the new hope – then we should also discuss which risks to those concerned are associated with what has also played a role in Switzerland, where rents, land and land have been enormously expensive, so that the boys pay the bill for a pension model...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11722	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11743	The boys pay the bill for a pension concept which is not in a position to guarantee pensions permanently. For pensions can only be permanently secured through social cohesion and employment policy, which is the prerequisite for any kind of old age insurance.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11771	Mr Dr. Khol has made a statement on an actual correction. I would ask you to define the facts to be corrected and to compare them with the actual ones.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11795	In his speech, Member Haider has quoted from a letter supposedly signed by Director of the Board of Directors Ditz, in which it is explained that those managers of the post that release most people have a better career. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's it! That's literally true!]] I quote from the original letter, signed by Dr. Johannes Ditz, Deputy Director-General, Ing. Josef Sindelka, Director-General, Director-General for Justice and Director-General Martinek [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Is it right now or not? What's wrong with that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What's wrong?]] "It will be primarily in your responsibility as a manager to find means and ways of organizing your tasks with fewer staff." [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Where is the correction?]] "Just the rational organization of work is one of the top tasks of every manager." I also quote from a letter of the same... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Read on!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Read more!]] [[Further lively calls to the liberals.]] "The Board of Directors therefore" – if you want to, I also read on – "in the future a particularly benevolent focus on those employees and executives..."
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11897	However, I do not want you to read on, honourable Member. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why? Let him read on!]] Mr President, at the next presidential meeting, as we last agreed, we will talk about the actual corrections. I have interrupted my colleague, I must also interrupt you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11924	I'm making an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11953	What is the case to be corrected?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11969	I have clarified the facts to be corrected: The claim that there would be a letter from Ditz, according to which managers will be rewarded if you release as many people as possible. I have read a letter that is not of Ditz, but of the entire board of directors, and in which the incriminated subject matter is another one. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But signed by Ditz! Read on!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12022	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Voluntary speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12046	Mr President. I am going to read the letter that Mr Khol has forgotten to read. This letter goes on to say: "The Executive Board will therefore in future pay particular attention to those employees and managers who have demonstrated themselves in this project through concrete contributions and creativity. We acknowledge that for this commitment to the future of our company, not only must they not grow up any disadvantages, but this will even contribute to the promotion of their careers." – Signed by Mr Ditz. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] Look, Mr Ditz! Enjoy your meal and thank you for choosing Burger King. See? Ah, you got it too! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I have the letter too!]] Then put on the glasses and read it again, Mr Khol, because you did so important. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I wanted to read it, but the President did not leave me!]] Or borrow the monocle from my colleague, Haselsteiner; he may not need it. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic once again trusted himself in Parliament, and he has sworn in his speech that he will address Parliament's constructive powers. Only I ask you, Federal Chancellor: Where have you been during this entire budget debate? You were never there, you weren't even there when we discussed your own Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Right!]] A novum! The Federal Chancellor is missing when talking about the Federal Chancellor's Office's budget. And then he comes and complains about not being constructively discussed with him. We're glad you're here today. But I see you will bring your Secretary of State again, who will probably have to represent you again now, because you are afraid of the debate. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] With what the Federal Chancellor has isolated from stencil rates, you will never be able to successfully debate the debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! Instead of learning your stencils externally, you should go inside once and check whether it is really decent to keep the old people in this country constantly on the nose and abuse them. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You're not responsible for opposition!]] But you're not, Professor! Explain to me why the old people have become dizzy! This is once the German Chancellor Vranitzky – this is a party comrade of yours, if you no longer remember it – and that is exactly on 7th. December 1995, a letter of which every pensioner today knows that this was a dizzy letter. And then your comrade Swoboda once again tried the same thing, namely in September 1996 at the EU election. Once again signed by your former party president. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Talk to your party friends! You know what I mean!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Fraud on the voters is calculable with you!]] You know, Mr Novotny, now I am going to provide you with a solid proof of how you do with the dizzying, the massive abuse of old people. I shall now prove it to you, and I am grateful that Mr Kostelka is now also here. Her comrade Schranz has – this is a record on a note of the "Forward"... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The Edgar Schranz really did something for the people!]] Professor! Now be quiet in there, Professor! Now I have to warn you, Professor. Look Just put this to you once, Professor, otherwise you will have to sit down and write a sentence! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You think when you talk, I can't intervene!]] In the "Forward" publishing house, Comrade Schranz writes to Comrade Rösch [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The two really did something for the old people!]] "Genose rosch! Soon we have to consider whether we're doing something, clamp on: Pity candidate, withdrawal, clamp closed, and at least talk to the party. Dearest Edgar." 6. May 1990. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What?]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Mr. Deputies! What have you done for the old people?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the Federal Chancellor and the President-in-Office of the Party has not dissociated any syllables from it. No syllables of it! He knows it was a mishap story. It's a smear story! With old people you can make a grudge. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Except for personal attacks, you can't do anything!]] Then, too, the highly revered wife of now-timed clubman Kostelka also gives active support by corresponding with the comrade Schranz about the malice candidate and the slander party foundation, the "Grauen Österreichs", because she represented him in law. Mr Kostelka! You can clarify this in the home area, how you're dizzying the old people here. But it's gonna be much thicker. – Yes, just touch the head, Mr Kostelka, because it gets even thicker. Her wife Gemahlin was involved when the statutes which were to be announced in a medium according to the law of the party were printed in a limited edition for the Ministry of the Interior, on page 30, "Rentner and Pensioner", September 1989. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Is that not a newspaper?]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Is that not a magazine?]] And now look at the pensioner newspaper of the Sozis, which was really printed and sold! There's something completely different. Page 30, "Rentner und Pensionist", September 1989: "40 years of Pensionistenverband – these are also 40 years of social rise." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (a photocopic newspaper page keeping up) That's deception!]] The statutes were made only for the Ministry of the Interior, not for the public, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Manipulated!]] Not for the public! That's still going to be with the prosecutor's office. I guarantee you that! You have not only divulged the old people, you have also broken the law. And this with the active support of your valuable wife, Gemahlin, as a lawyer's office, colleague Kostelka. That's how it looks! That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] They abuse old people and lead them around at their noses with insult candidates. They abuse old people as voters by promising them pensions prior to the election, which they will shorten on the next occasion. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The Edgar Schranz really did something for the old people!]] This is your policy: Abuse of the old people! Abuse! The most disgraceful abuse of the old people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And now the railways are on it. Mr Hums – now he had to be put back on the speaker's list because Mrs Reitsamer was pushing himself forward – is the only railway driver who has ever trusted himself in the speaker's seat, and he knows exactly that his comrades no longer understand what this government is doing with them. They've been debilitated! That's even your "genosse" oillinger, Mr. Hums! They've been debilitated. Before the election, the railways were not told what was going to happen to them. They have been weakened, and your successor, Nowak, has calmed them accordingly in your party paper: There will be no changes. That is why the governments of the union were so surprised yesterday when you negotiated. They have said that they want to listen first to what the Federal Government wants at all. If they all knew what was going on anyway, why did your comrades of the railway union do so surprised yesterday? - Because people have been deceived. They're dizzying old people, that's not too bad for you, and you're dizzying the railways, according to lines and thread, as it turns out now, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's incredible!]] You know, Mr President and vice-president-in-chief, that is, to quote you yourself, something that you would not be able to do, I assume. Or are you doing what your party is doing here? You said earlier: It's not going to suit us liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Yes, you're not doing anything!]] This particular group, which I have referred to now, in which you are the chairman, will not be able to do so if the prosecutor proves how to abuse old people in this country most abusively and in violation of the law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12383	The next speaker is Mr Hums. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12405	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should return to the subject matter, even if it is not pleasant for the opposition. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I think it hurts you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We've been there for a long time!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you deceive the old people, we have to step in! That's where you hurt the old man!]] Mr Stadler! The statement by the former Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky that there will be no pension reductions of existing pensions was so far and will be fully respected in the future. No pension has been reduced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But go! Which world do you live in?]] The fact that pensioners have the same tax measures when there are tax measures to carry the same tax measures in the same income conditions is, of course, not a reduction in the pension. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Where do you live?]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Take a look at the payroll from a pensioner! If you want, I'll bring you one!]] If there are tax measures, no one will be able to act as a reduction in the pension, because that tax measures take active and pensioners at the same rate of income, everyone will probably be clear. The next point: The railways are said to have dimmed. Please, it is clear: ==References== On the same day as the Council of Ministers meeting with the Protocol note, the information provided by the trade union was shown to have gone out. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (Keeping a leaf from a magazine in height) Why then this paper?]] This paper notes this once again. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It says that nothing has happened.]] May I tell you from my long functional activity: A trade unionist would be stupid if he were not to present negotiations from the outset that threaten, because this was the result of the railways being in solidarity, in strength to their representatives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! I don't know yet. Are you for or against the railways now? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You never know that!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You never know that with them!]] For both you have a variant: To the railways you will tell them you were for them, the other, you have fought the privileges of the railways. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a railway representative, I have had to deal for years with the most violent attacks from your ranks, with attacks on the railways, with attacks on the railways. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why? We are protecting the railways from this government!]] We've all set them up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You should be grateful to us! We are protecting the railways from this government!]] The railways have been drawn into privilege discussions long enough, and I do not want you to see your favor disappear among voters now, because you see your favor disappear, creating a new privilege discussion about the railways. The railways didn't deserve it! Their achievements rise year after year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no second railway company across Europe with such freight services – despite rationalisations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: They confuse us with the ÖVP! That was your government partner!]] This applies in some areas to both. I also had to defend the railways very, very often, against the ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here!]] But my request: Let us not start this discussion again. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Swamm over it!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Let's say it was nothing!]] It will, of course, as it has always been, even in the area of railways, if there is a desire from the employer to negotiate the workforce representation from the employer. This is happening right now. One thing I do not want to say: that we are constantly merely the advantages of the railways and not the disadvantages they have in their right of service. The railways were the first group at all, which in 1992 at the same time as the distribution of the ÖBB accepted that, on the road to harmonisation, the ASVG would be the whole for the railways. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Why does the woman Reitsamer not say that?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why did the colleague Reitsamer not say this?]] And at the time, Mr Kukacka, we did not want this to happen at the same time in the public service. Every union negotiates for itself. The railways have secured individual contracts under private law, not only since the disbursement, Mr Kier. This is the only thing I have to realize now, which was already the case before. Not the new leadership has agreed on something in this direction. Although the railways have a better pension right, they have much more flexible working time regulations on the other hand, the Working Time Act does not apply to them. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then it belongs harmonised! There is a great need for harmonisation!]] They have longer weekly working hours; on weaker posts without time compensation, without overtime up to 45 hours and 44 minutes per week, without overtime remuneration in weaker areas. The railways don't get a finish. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Do you get any anniversary money?]] The railways have a much lower level of protection because this is necessary in the company. – You don’t talk about all of this! Or are these privileges? The railways were prepared to accept, in their individual contracts, I say to everyone, that the contribution rates, which are possible by contract, have been substantially increased as equivalent measures to other areas in the area of railways, both for active and for pensioners. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Tell the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, please!]] Actives currently pay 13.25 percent, from a certain income 14.25 percent; from 1999 onwards 14.25 percent, from a certain income level 15.25 percent. Pensioners then pay 5.25 percent from a certain income level. All of this has demonstrated its solidarity: the solidarity of the old with the young, the social solidarity of those who deserve more. These negotiations are currently under way, and the trade union will represent the interests of railwayers. I hope that, in all areas, we can see that the railways are doing a great deal. We should thank them for these achievements for Austria, for the environment, for the economy and not constantly torturing them with privileges! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12775	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12797	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that emotion is actually wrong in this debate, because it is already in front of the first. Budgetary accompanying law, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals: Equal pension reform measures are also applied in the area of the existing pension law of the Austrian Federal Railways. And that's what we're gonna do now. The essential aspects are clear: The same right for one must be the same right for the other. That is, if there is a conversion period for officials, then, because the pension is less for officials, one will have to talk about whether 83 per cent of the last reference for the ÖBB staff can be the prerequisite for his pension right, ladies and gentlemen. The second point, which is equally clear: If the ASVG insured person has to accept deductions when he retires earlier, an equivalent instrument will have to be found for the ÖBB staff. The third priority is also clear: It will be the case that a similar equal treatment is required at the age of retirement. If we now make the conditions for early retirement much more difficult in all systems, then it cannot be possible for the ÖBB to retire at the age of 53. This negotiation must be conducted as emotionally as possible and lead to a result of what the Federal Chancellor has said today from the Government Bank. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is in the interest of the workers of the Federal Railways, because we do not want them to be, after all, the officials who are exposed to a Hatz and who are shed daily. No, but the principle is simply to apply to them: What is now being reintroduced for officials and what is now being introduced for ASVG insured persons, this should also apply to the Federal Railway Service. This principle must be taken into account in the negotiations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to deal with the second point, which has once again appeared controversial, because the liberals have been so particularly involved: with the question of political privileges, as that is referred to. They have included themselves in this reorganisation of the references. [[Abg. Madl: Hold it!]] You have not achieved any enforcement with your actions, the four other political groups in this House. But what is particularly disturbing to me is the presentation of Dr. Haider, who always feels so comfortable here in the role of "Jörg the Righteous". Ladies and gentlemen! "Jörg the righteous" is actually the wrong expression. Today he is in truth standing on the pod of "Haider the Rich", and the ladder did not stand up by his performance, but he built his uncle, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Aumayr: No envy, my colleague!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Other calls of the Abg. Aumayr.]] From the Podest of "Haider the Rich" you can of course propose great measures. If you stand on the treasure island even with dry feet, you can easily let the others swim around. But I do not think that it is actually legitimate to argue in this way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's where all those involved look away!]] I would recommend to Mr Dr. Haider and also to Mr Stadler that they speak with their colleagues in their own group, for which there is a need to protect trust, so that they do not always have to come to our negotiators to be sure that this does not happen anyway, what Dr. Haider here always requires. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would recommend you at all, since you have now also discovered the Christian human image and have included a "responsible Christianity" in your own party program: Sell your Porsche, Dr. Haider! [[Abg. Wenitsch: No class struggle!]] Donate all your income, bring the Bearental into a foundation! Then you can rightly say: I put ashes on my head, I put on the penitent's garment. [[Abg. May. Stadler: So primitive! Is it even more primitive?]] Then it is also legitimate to point the finger at others, ladies and gentlemen. But I think you should, in advance, really distance yourself from these measures.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12925	The next speaker is Mr Deputies' Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12947	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is at least tolerable that Mr Spindelegger did not claim today that property in Austria is already a crime. That would have been missing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Spindelegger! I can tell you: According to your definition, we have already spread ashes on our heads, because we have respected what we have promised with the 60 000 S package. The solidarity of those of us who earn more than 60 000 S net has not only arrived but also been shown to have arrived at the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire! I have been promised several times by you that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and what else do I know who will give up and carry out charity purposes. The proof, signed by a notary, has remained at least from the Socialist Group to this day. And Mr Wabl, too, is no longer distributing privileges-fifties in Graz, as he did last year. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: Have you already delivered everything beyond 60,000?]] Of course, Mr President, and I can also prove it at any time. Of course I have delivered everything, Mr Wurmitzer, on Heller and Pfennig, which I have earned over the 60 000 S. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Ins Bärental!]] Mr Wurmitzer! If you don't believe it, I can give you proof. But one more thing, Mr Wurmitzer: It's just those who cash, they're excited here! But those who have done their act of solidarity can submit their accounts to the Austrian people in peace. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And you will also experience in Carinthia next year that you enjoyed too early. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be handing over to the population, as it did last month. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Vote and cash!]] You will learn the laughter from the Austrian People's Party! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now more to the Federal Chancellor. – Mr. Federal Chancellor said that Mr. Rürup was misquoted by us: I quote Rürup, 28.10., APA Report No. 350, third paragraph, anyone can read it: Just as the future currently looks, that is not enough to make the system future-proof, says Rürup. From his point of view, the compromise is marked by the age profile in the ÖGB and is particularly important for the income security of over fifty years. On the other hand, there were clear injustices for the young contributors and the long-term insured. The Federal Chancellor – and I hope, Secretary of State, you will give it to him – is thus spreading against better knowledge in Austria that this was a reform in the interest of young people. Even the own expert Rürup, who was brought by Federal Minister Hums at the time, said it clearly and clearly: not sustainable enough and at the expense of the youth. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic should have quoted Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner better than he meant about a year ago in the context of the reform of the contract, that every farm in Austria is well advised, first – first! – to save on the day of the Board of Directors in order to achieve fair participation by workers in the appropriate form. – Nothing else, we demand a solidarity model for the leadership days in this Republic, so that the "simple person" in Austria can also contribute the solidarity pact about the generations of all Austrians who are under 40 today. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Mr Hums, to you and to the railway. – We liberals have always been behind the "small" railways, and we have always been behind the privileges that have existed for the central stations, also in the current discussion. Mr Hums! They have been right in that the railways are now paying higher contributions and that, on average, pensioners will also have to pay a 5% pension contribution, which will be well over 5 percent in the future. But please do not say, Mr Hums, that these payments for the pension scheme have not been a reduction in railway pensions. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] They did not respect the contract with pensioners on the spot, but only "creative" in the sense of Mr Edlinger.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13054	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Guggenberger. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13078	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are willing to present ourselves today and also next week and whenever you want to discuss the content of that pension reform, as we decided most of it last week. This is a pension reform which can be used by the majority in this House. But this is, above all, ladies and gentlemen, a pension reform which – and the surveys we have carried out – will prove it by the vast majority of the population as a reform which is socially fair and necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're hiding them, I think!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Hardly audible applause at the SPÖ!]] It is a pension reform that brings justice to all professional groups, because there are equal periods of calculation for employees and workers, because pension increases will be the same for all in the future, for employees, workers and officials. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: They will still insist that they have been lied!]] It is a pension reform that brings more justice to pensioners because it excludes intervention in existing pensions. It is a pension reform that brings more justice to women because child rearing times are better than those currently charged. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: But still bad!]] It is a pension reform that brings more justice to those who are slightly employed, because this group – and unfortunately more and more – will have more social protection than before. And not least, it is a pension reform that brings more justice to the boys, because this makes their future or the probability of having a secure pension even more significantly higher than without this reform. [[Call to the liberals: You don't believe that yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One can certainly deal very critically with the theses of Professor Rürup; this has also happened very clearly from our side on this pult, but one thing he certainly has not deserved: that he must keep for you from the liberals as a witness that the three-pillar model, as you imagine it, is the best. Whoever claims this has not read the opinion of Rürup, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Exhausted applause at the SPÖ!]] The opinion of Rürup is firmly placed on the bottom of the payroll system. We do not want a capital fund procedure, as you propose. This means nothing but a socialization of the stock market risk. And I repeat it: It is precisely the last few weeks and months that have shown that this is a very worrying thing, a perspective that cannot permanently guarantee pensions. But what is particularly annoying about me, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, is that you are constantly trying to hold a political privilege debate in connection with pensions on the cooks. I'll hold on to this. The majority of colleagues in this House have arrived after 1990, and these colleagues either have the possibility of an option or they will not have political pensions at all in the future. That was quite clear once. It's really insanity that you've been misrepresenting this over and over again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also strange if you think that those in this House who have paid them over all those years – and that is after 12, 13 years, if you are a Member of Parliament as long as I am, for example, over 3.5 million schillings – should receive pensions, these pensions are simply deleted. And I can tell you one more thing – and this is the summit of unfrozenness: A whole series of colleagues on your side – Holger Bauer, Herbert Haupt, Partik-Pablé, Haigermoser, Harald Ofner and as they all are called – are the beneficiaries of this system, which you are always so strongly inciting to the outside. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Take it off at last!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We wanted to get rid of it now!]] I want to, because I'm a friendly person, I don't want anyone out, otherwise I'd have to say how many of your side went to us at the time and said: Please, for heaven's sake, don't do that to us! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now you're dreaming! You don't believe that!]] That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Screaming outside and being the beneficiaries of this system inside! This is a double morale, that is a double liberties, and that must be said, ladies and gentlemen, too. – The applause was a very poor one. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As so often, this debate was debated in the context of urgent questions: It was once again a lot of noise about nothing. We and above all the population will not bring you to your side with this argumentation.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13249	Mr Wabl has made a statement on an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13273	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wabl has claimed that there are no longer any privileges of twenty-seven people. He thus assumes that there are still privileges-twenties. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I You have somehow escaped your perception that this very privilege, which you have agreed to in 1983, has already been abolished. That's why I can't distribute any more privileges, because I can't get them. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But this is not an actual correction!]] That was a very subtle submission and a false claim from you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13310	Next word: Mr. Dr. Feurstein. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13331	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! You know that I appreciate the head of Parliament. He has turned to us to say that the ÖVP will still be laughing. [[Call the liberals: In Carinthia!]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I I remember that a few days ago, Mr Trattner, the speaker here, and he said that the Social Fund, which was formed because of the overpayments of the FPÖ politicians, met and distributed 700 000 S. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's not right! In what period?]] 700,000 S! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You'll get a "really" anyway!]] I'm only expecting one year now: If you do this almost correctly, only two people in their club will have to pay at least 700 000 S in these social funds. [[Abg. May. Trattner: What a fool!]] But then the Land councils have not yet paid for anything in these funds. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It would be better if you did not deal with us so much, but with the ÖVP!]] I wonder, I ask you: Where did this money stay from a year when you have correctly settled, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How much did you pay in?]] Mr Trattner! When you come to the speaker's desk, bring us the actual correction, how much money has been received and what happened to the money. That is the crucial question. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Gottfried, I'm inviting you, you're even allowed to see!]] Yes, I can? [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'll allow you to understand!]] If I get a call from Mr Stadler, I have to mention something else. Today, the APA has been broadcast: Stadler works, Haider cashes the supplements. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You can see it! Haider's not here, Stadler's here!]] Ladies and gentlemen: Stadler works, Haider cashes the supplements. - You see, Stadler's here. And then the honourable Member, Stadler, says: One thing is certain: The honourable Member, Mr Haider, delivers everything that is over 60 000 s. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Ins Bärental!]] That is the question of how these funds are, ladies and gentlemen. But it's about something else. It should only be made clear to this entire political debate how dishonest it is basically being led by your side, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You know that from bad, don't you?]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was no error in reaching the agreement of the social partners. We have begun a social partners... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Gottfried, now explain to me what is dishonest!]] I explained this earlier. I have put these facts on the table, and I expect them to be rebutted, ladies and gentlemen. These facts are clearly on the table. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can see! You can check evidence! You're a statistician!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was no mistake that we negotiated. Unlike in other countries, we have implemented a pension reform. Today stands in the "standard": Germany: Pension debacle falls Bonner Coalition in Chaos. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What about you? You speak differently in Parliament than you talk outside, Mr. Feurstein!]] I'm not going to let you tell me that, ladies and gentlemen. I can prove that, unlike everyone else in your club, I have found a clean solution since 1975. Call me a person from your club who found a similar clean solution to me! Since 1975! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you have a notary for that, Gottfried? You did this in front of a notary, didn't you?]] [[Call to the Freeman: Where is the Notary?]] I don't need a notary! I found a clean solution with my service provider. This is the big difference: You'll be cashed, and then you'll have to distribute with notaries. That's the big difference! I don't need a notary to distribute, because I don't cash at all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't need that?! Okay, Gottfried! Your credibility is there!]] I have a clean solution with the service provider. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I still know you from the disabled, Mr. Deputies! You are always talking very differently outside than you are talking here in Parliament!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have something to say to you: Woe to us if your proposals on pension reform become reality! ==References== Your pension concept was placed on the table on November 1. What would it mean? – It would not mean harmonisation between the individual systems, as we seek and demand them – Mr Spindelegger has said that very clearly – but, ladies and gentlemen, it would mean a public pension for the Austrians, a basic pension, and I say quite clearly to you: We reject a basic pension, a public pension! This is not in question for us! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We want the principle of insurance in our pension insurance. [[Complaints and bravails of the Agg. Meisinger.]] They want to abolish the maximum contribution base for workers, ladies and gentlemen. Everyone gets only one basic pension, but should be 22.8 percent... [[Call to the liberals: It can be less too!]] You say that may be a little less, but he has to pay the contributions from his full salary, but then only gets a basic pension. Thank you very much for this proposal! Let us reject it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] They say quite clearly: We demand that the pension base be frozen. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You haven't even read it!]] So that means no improvement of pensions for the boys. Whoever goes into retirement in the next few years would have expected to freeze the pension basis, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The last elections were lost because of you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: ÖVP has already lost one choice because of you!]] Consider what that means: Those who go in ten years would have exactly the same pension as those who went in 1997, ladies and gentlemen! No consideration of inflation, no consideration of wage developments, no consideration of the development of living standards. – No thanks for this pension reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They're giving you newspaper knowledge! That's your normal level!]] You want a reduction in the net replacement rate for pensions, ladies and gentlemen. Today we give pensioners a net replacement rate in the legal area of about 70 to 74 percent. If we lower this, this will lead to an impoverishment of the pensioners. Do you really just want to give a net replacement rate of an average of 50, of 40 percent? Give me the number you really want to give! Lowering the net replacement rate: No thanks! In principle, we reject such a pension reform. Such a thing is not in question for us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we say yes to the second pillar. We were the ones who introduced the Pension Scheme Act, which introduced the Pension Act in 1972 as an initiative here in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A law!]] But we demand that it be done on a voluntary basis. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A law on a voluntary basis! Gottfried, now it's gonna be dangerous!]] We demand that it is on a voluntary basis and not mandatory. On this point, we cannot go along with the FPÖ, as much as we recognize this second pillar. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We already have the second pillar, in 13 years you are at the third!]] I would like to mention one last point. Ladies and gentlemen! It has always been said here that we cannot intervene in the approximation of civil servants' pensions to federal train staff pensions. We have clearly in 1992 – clearly! – provided for in § 22: Until its new regulation, the Federal Law shall not affect the provisions on the service, remuneration and pension ratio of the Federal Railway Services. But it has been said at the same time: until the new regulation, and if a new regulation comes through law, of course we have the possibility that we can also solve this issue of approximation in the law. And that's what we're gonna do. We want a clear and clear legal framework for this approximation, for this harmonisation with the Federal Railways, and we do not want it to remain in a nebulous area. For us, it is very important that a clear and clear basis – also in the interest of the Federal Railway Pensioners – be created in the future, just as we have already laid down in the Federal Railway Act in 1992. That is why we want a legal basis for this new regulation, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13748	To make an actual correction, honourable Member has the power to do so. Trattner reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13781	Watch out for a little bit! – Mr Feurstein! You have said in today's speech that I would have said, on the occasion of my actual correction, that the Social Fund has so far entered 700 000 S. This claim is wrong. On the contrary, it is true that all income components are transferred to the Social Fund over 60 000, and it is true that I said in the first half of the year... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schwimmer.]] Now be quiet! [[Lively cheerfulness.]] If you have something to say, come out! Yes, Wurmitzer, you're the first one to go out! [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] I am already speaking, or, Mr President?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13832	Excuse me! I don't hear anything right now, except noise. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls.]] Deputies! If you want to continue with the actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13856	I continue with my actual correction. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Yes, Koppler, you're the right person! [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign the other day.]] I also claimed that in the first half of 1997 700 000 S were distributed to socially in need of Austrian families from this fund.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13905	I call Mr Dolinschek. Please, honourable Member. Time left: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13938	Mr President. Mr State Secretary!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13965	May I ask for attention to the speaker!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13981	High house! It is quite clear that the representatives of the two coalition parties are becoming quite nervous when we ask for a urgent question on the reform of the pension system. After the last two rather boring days, this is an enrichment here in the High House. I would like to say something briefly to Mr Guggenberger. Mr Guggenberger! You have said that you have surveys that show that this pension reform, as it has now been created, is considered fair. – I have to tell you, I have a completely different impression of the population! The population is saying, and this is also said by researchers, that the escape to early pensions will be reinforced by it, it is said that there is too little consideration of women's issues and that there is no balance between young and old. That's to be read everywhere. Where do you find justice in this reform? On the comments of Mr Feurstein. Dr. Feurstein! If, in your decision-making here in the House, you would not have converted the policy-making rules into a constitutional law, then of course we would have the opportunity to pass the money on that way. Now it is simply not possible to give up certain references. That is why we have introduced the 60 000 S net ceiling as a cover. [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] If you were to introduce that, we wouldn't have the problem. But now everything has been distributed notarially certified. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Feurstein! They confuse the freezing of the maximum basis of assessment with the removal of the maximum basis of assessment according to our system. We want to abolish the maximum basis of assessment, so that those who earn more also pay more for the others who earn less, so that the payment system is still guaranteed by a basic provision. [[Abg. Steibl: Slower! You don't understand!]] There has been an accident of reform in the field of ASVG and civil servants, and now the whole chapter has become richer, namely the ÖBB-pensions. What did the Federal Government actually think about not including this scheme in the pension negotiations? The reason for this was probably the staff representation elections at the ÖBB! There you have distributed leaflets on which you read: No changes in ÖBB-pensions. After these personnel representation elections have now been carried out, it seems that the pensions of the ÖBB staff are now being reduced. It appears that the Federal Government is seeking to obtain the financial resources necessary for urgently needed investment through a reduction in pensions and the increase in contributions from public authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no harmonisation of pension insurance systems. What was the big goal of this pension reform has not occurred, because harmonisation means to me to eliminate injustices and privileges within the various pension systems, especially if these privileges are financed by those who cannot claim these benefits. I have an article from a daily newspaper, which reads: "One million Austrians live on the poverty line, have less than 8 000 S per month." I feel this is bad, but I know that you will get out of the government parties and say again that Austria is still in the middle of the EU comparison. I also have a reader's letter from today's daily newspaper. It says: "No trace of socially balanced. With my pension of 6 747 S, I could still need something to do with it, but I can't earn anything, otherwise some of my pension will be deducted from me. I have to work for nothing. But if I were a pensioner with 50,000 or 100,000 s, I wouldn't have a problem. This is how the social balance of today's government looks. We ASVG-pensionists must not even blow into the pepper at our trade union."
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14026	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14042	I come to the conclusion, Mr President. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! The system on which the Federal Government is holding, the charging system, no longer works, because the acceptance of the population in the future is no longer given. We must come to a mixing system between a basic provision according to the charging system, an operating provision and a private provision according to the capital coverage system.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14081	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14102	We now come to hold a brief debate, which concerns the request made by Mr Wabl, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 549/A concerning the refusal of confidence to the Federal Minister for Defence of the State. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States. After the end of this debate, the vote will be taken on this request for a deadline. We are going into the debate. The time limits are as follows: For every speaker 5 minutes, for the first speaker 10 minutes. First speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14133	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In July of this year, the Green Group submitted a motion of censure in connection with the refusal of confidence towards the Federal Minister of State for Defence, which was assigned to the Constitutional Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! A mistrust is the strongest weapon in democracy and in parliamentarianism against a minister. I think that this weapon should only be used if there is really a serious reason for it. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is going to be a Sunday novel!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I look at what is the reason for this and how the Social Democratic Party, as the ÖVP's government partner, has responded to the procedure of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, I am surprised that you are not dealing with this request in the Constitutional Committee by the SPÖ. I know, and we are used to it, that you are essentially acting next to Parliament and that you are essentially not taking any more account of parliamentary practices. In connection with Mr Bundeskanzler, I thought it very strange today that Mr Bundeskanzler meant that the politicians in this House should reserve their decisions. The experts should make proposals, but the policy should ultimately make decisions. That was, you know, an uplifting of this house! Ladies and gentlemen! But what has the Minister of Defence done in recent months and last year? – He has hollowed out the Austrian constitution, cut off disks for discs from neutrality and has performed international performances without criticism from his own series, in which he has announced that Austria is already doing so, so whether it would be in NATO. Ladies and gentlemen! The original quote of the Minister of State Defense in Prague has stated: "For Austria, it would be good to prepare for NATO membership now. This means, for example, that the German army behaves as if Austria were already a member of NATO." Ladies and gentlemen! This is clearly a commitment to the breakup of neutrality. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He spoke about the preparation!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! I know you see this differently. They're pushing into NATO. You don't know the Constitution anymore, you don't care about the laws relating to neutrality. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Greens usually don't care about the laws!]] Mr President, I should like to thank But you might want to look at your government partner's press release, which is that of 23. June of this year: "Kostelka" – the clubman of the most powerful party in this house at all – "mighties about Fassleven. Should it really have happened in Prague that the Federal Minister Fassleven has claimed that the German army should act as if Austria were already a NATO member, he would act against the Constitution and against the legal situation." We have all waited for the Federal Minister Fassleven to recall this, because Kostelka has put in the room that a request for withdrawal is not excluded. I do not know how Mr Khol sees this, but in any case, Mr Fassleven has traveled to Austria and has still done so, ladies and gentlemen: "You should not wait until accession issues are decided. I am acting in an autonomous way." And in the context of Question Time of 10. In October 1997, the Federal Minister held the following: "Of course, our entire planning, in particular procurement planning and the measures, is already aimed at not taking a step ahead" – he has not yet done so; he has not said that we are already joining – "but to take into account that all measures are taking place in such a way that a situation is already calculated, perhaps only in the coming years." That means: Of course, we behave with all the changes, at all new introductions already as if we were looking at membership in a fixed way. Ladies and gentlemen! I think you can vote against this motion for a resolution in the Constitutional Committee. You can explain to the coalition partner that all of this is not meant. Although the Federal Minister does not care about the Constitution, the Federal Minister has already presented a government template, according to which the military officers no longer have to make a fidelity vow to the Republic of Austria, because this will no longer be done, Mr Wormitzer and Mr Maitz, if Austria is already acting as if it were NATO when Turkey's assistance would be effective when, for example, it is attacked by Iraq because it has stationed troops there. This does not mean that the promise to defend the homeland is obsolating. That is why there is already a government template in which the autonomous approach is already set out. Ladies and gentlemen! If the Federal Minister repeats this in this way in the Constitutional Committee, I am excited how the foreign spokesman of the SPÖ and how Mr Klubobmann Kostelka will respond to this blatant violation of the Austrian Constitution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You will be able to misinformed the people with your representations, you may continue to spread the untruth even more dramatically – I do not want to risk a call for order today – but you will have to spread the untruth until everyone discovers how you are doing in this matter. I ask you: Is in Austria the Sovereign, the Austrian people, the people who represent you and represent the Minister of State? And is everything really right from the people? – If that were the case, you would have to take this request seriously, discuss it offensively and convince your government partner. This Minister of Defence is no longer acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14204	From now on, the speaking time is 5 minutes per speaker. The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14228	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Volume replaces no arguments. We have just heard an example of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The aim of the security policy of the Minister for Defence Werner Fassleven is to create the best possible external security for Austria's population with the available scarce resources. And this best possible security can only be achieved through an open system – open to international developments, open to the development of the common foreign and security policy within the EU and open to social change in Austria. That is why Minister Fassleven makes his decisions in such a way that both possible realistic options currently being discussed for future security policy are valid for all these decisions. These two options are: NATO new or neutrality pure. Pure neutrality means simple and gripping: according to Swiss patterns, that means a massive increase in national defence expenditure. NATO as a new political security community with enforcement is essentially called... [[Abg. Young: For 40 years we were neutral! Because you've been pressing ahead of reality!]] Do you know why we've been able to deal with this so far? – Because until the fall of the "iron curtain" we had a factual assistance guarantee from NATO. We were always at home in the Western world, and, of course, in every attack on Austria, the NATO countries would have intervened out of their own interest. Therefore, the defense budget could be kept relatively low. NATO new or pure neutrality, these are the two options. In the NATO version, we would mainly be able to obtain one percent of the gross domestic product for future defence. In the case of alternative neutrality, we should double the expenditure on defence as in Switzerland! That's reality. [[Abg. Young: Now tell the next fairy tale!]] The Federal Minister of Defence has therefore acted responsibly if he has decided in the case of procurements, personnel decisions, system decisions, management structures and communication structures in such a way that these decisions are suitable for both options. [[Abg. Wabl: That's why Kostelka was outraged?! Why was Kostelka outraged?- Oh, my God!]] Fassleven is not only the longest-serving defense minister of the Second Republic, but also an expert, consistent and successful Federal Minister for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dr Werner Fassleven deserves our full trust, for he acts in accordance with the constitution and has a right to political freedom of expression which you will not agree with by the Greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, the deadline application is also unnecessary. My colleague, Mr Wabl, I recommend the current newspaper "Kurier", page 2. There is written about Wabl: "Some greens don't want to grow up. The youngest children's playground of Deputies Wabl: He decorated a painting of his club Petrovic... with a two-centimetre small red dots. In addition, Wabl sprayed a pink flower on the wall of the room." And such children's establishments as you seem to have made them in the club, you have also done today at Michaelerplatz, where you have poured up a small pile of sand and played with Küberl and Schauferl, while your colleagues have worked here and have discussed the science and education budget! The honourable colleague Kammerlander said at this event at Michaelerplatz: In times of sparbudgets, the national defence budget is the only massive increase. [[Ah-and-oh-noise with the liberals.]] This is a conscious untruth. The 500 million schilling we got more – unfortunately it has not become! – are just a charge of the inflation rate. Do you know which area has been massively increased? – The education budget! Science and teaching will receive a total of 4 500 million Schilling. This is the ninefold of the amount to which the state defense was increased. Mrs Kammerlander! I would They urgently request: Stay with the truth and don't run Hatz on a state-of-the-art facility as our army is!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14337	I call Mr Scheibner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14358	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, I would like to make it clear that we will agree to this proposal for a deadline for principle, because we agree with any request aimed at the rapid treatment of parliamentary initiatives as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Wabl: Very good!]] However, Mr Wabl, I must say that, in this case, we only agree with the opposite and only because we do not want to abandon this principle. [[Abg. Wabl: From me!]] It is quite strange, Mr Wabl, that, as you have rightly said, the strongest parliamentary means against a minister have been introduced here in the form of a self-employed request, which needs a certain period of time to deal with. [[Abg. Wabl: The one the coalition partner threatened!]] If you say that this Minister is not portable – and I too believe that there can be reasons for mistrusting this Minister – and if you think that there is a real risk of delay, then you have to do so in the form of a self-employed request to be voted immediately. But again: We will vote in favour of the deadline for principle reasons. From the content and justification of this motion for a resolution, we cannot, of course, accede to it. For, Mr Wabl, it is, as I believe, a fact that one cannot break the Constitution with statements, but only with actions. There is or has been in the history of the Second Republic a whole series of actions that have violated the Neutrality Act, against the requirements of permanent neutrality. [[Abg. Wabl: You don't know Wittgenstein! Read Wittgenstein!]] This was primarily the UN accession in 1955, which was the transit permits at the time of the Iraq war, and that was the complete disregard of the command of armed neutrality. Mr Wabl! If you are so committed to neutrality, you must also say what that means in practice for your own national defense. It must then be so strong that we can stand up against any potential aggressor. We have neglected that for over 40 years. [[Abg. Wabl: This is a very different concept of peace than our colleague Scheibner!]] Finally, the accession of Austria to the European Union, which includes the objective and commitment to the common foreign and security policy in the Maastricht Treaty, was a clear break in neutrality and neutrality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are the things that would have been to discuss. That is why we believe that the Neutrality Act has long been detogulated materially. Not statements break a law, dear colleague Wabl, but actions, and such actions have already been set several times. [[Abg. Wabl: Fassleven said we behave as if we were a member!]] Mr Wabl! The argument with the breaking of the constitution and the breaking of the laws is of course very interesting when it is brought by you. For it was from your ranks the call to the breaking of the law to hear the call for refusal of command! Finally, a leaflet, which reads as follows : [[The speaker shall hold a leaflet briefly up to]] "Save this military budget!" – "Save yourselves this military budget" at the same time means: Save the federal army! This too is a break in the constitution, because the Austrian federal army is anchored in the Austrian federal constitution. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] So don't measure with two different dimensions and act here with different arguments! We know your goals, Mr Wabl! We know your goals! All you wear is a grudge! [[Abg. Wabl: The Executive! That's a difference! We love the Red Cross!]] Every order is an abomination to you, and the Austrian army is an abomination to you. This must also be made quite clear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We see it differently. For us, one thing is clear: Neutrality, Mr Wabl, is an important historical asset. It was the condition of the Soviet Union for the freedom and independence of Austria. You're supposed to keep this stuff up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] – Mrs Colleague! Ask Mr Moser. He'll hopefully explain it to you if he can still say that. Today, however, we also want to point out that neutrality can no longer be answered to the questions of the future of Austrian security policy and that it should therefore be our objective to involve Mrs Petrovic in the existing security organizations such as NATO and Western European Union with all his rights and obligations and to cooperate with the other European states in the development of a functioning and lasting security and peace order. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Where's the Constitution?- Oh, my God!]] That would also be our responsibility for future generations. I hope that at last the Federal Government will also move in this direction and that we will not always have a embarrassing spectacle, a ping-pong game, to be recorded in the media. While the Minister of Defence is really taking a step, it is immediately being re-buffed, and ultimately only a great uncertainty in the population is left behind. There would be an extreme need for action.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14566	I call Mr Moser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14588	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, I should like to say that the Liberal Group will also agree to this proposal for a deadline, because I think it is necessary to discuss in this House the behaviour and the management of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Fassleven, that it is very necessary to discuss the management of Mr Fassleven's office, because from my point of view, Minister Fassl evening is losing our confidence in his correct and constitutional management. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, that is a fact of God. That is why we will be able to accept this deadline proposal so that we can discuss it here in the House. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I must say to the Green Group that the reason for this request is really not valid. If, for example, it argues that the reason why Minister Fassleven should express distrust is that the German army participates in NATO-PfP exercises, then I must tell you that this is done on the basis of a state agreement which this Federal Government has concluded with NATO. Therefore, this behaviour or participation in such exercises is not illegal. Mr Wabl! However, we can discuss the extent to which this State Treaty has been implemented in accordance with the Constitution. I think it is even high time to consider whether the state agreements concluded with NATO – and we are also doing other state agreements with NATO – are actually constitutional, or whether it would not have been necessary to involve Parliament accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! According to Article 50 of the Federal Constitution, this Parliament must be involved in the conclusion of political state agreements. However, all these contracts have been passed by Parliament. I think that this is politically inappropriate and constitutional. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For the second. On the other hand, it was argued that Minister Fassleven explained that NATO membership for Austria is only a matter of time. – In my view, one cannot really take a Federal Minister's political opinion. The quality of his statement would be best measured in this specific question in terms of the extent to which actions have already been put in this direction or whether this is just his opinion. [[Abg. Wabl:... motion of censure! He's not a Minister of Social Affairs!]] I can accept his opinion, although I say, Mr Wabl, that this is a serious misevaluation, because if you are an attentive observer of political discussion, you can see that Austria is not going to become a member of NATO so quickly. I also regret that Mr Maitz has polished this question of our country's future security policy on only two options: either NATO new or neutrality pure. Mr Maitz! This is a completely shortened view of things, because the way to NATO can also be a path with intermediate steps. There is certainly the possibility of taking an intermediate step towards the European security structure towards the integration of Austria into these security structures. This can be a purely political membership or a way between the current PPS and NATO membership. But drawing this way only black and white is certainly too little. [[Abg. Scheibner: The freshener has already convinced you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's discuss the options! It is not possible to claim or determine in the first place what is an absolutely shortened representation. For example, there is also the possibility that Austria will make a contribution to deepening the European identity of defence and security within the framework of the European Union. These options also belong to the table! It is therefore unreasonable, Mr Maitz, if this question is raised on the one hand: Either to NATO or not to NATO!, and on the other hand to maintain neutrality is shortened. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From our point of view, Minister Fassleven is there for two other reasons to lose confidence in him, and we are thinking of accepting the motion for censure for two further reasons. Minister Fassleven has in connection with the implementation of the military reform or in the context of...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14641	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14659	I come to the conclusion, Mr President. – Minister Fassleven has not acted in accordance with constitution in connection with the implementation of the military reform. He has exceeded his skills, ladies and gentlemen! This is a fact, and we will still have the opportunity to discuss it in detail in the context of the debate on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14689	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14710	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I particularly welcome the Socialist Group, which has now returned to the Chamber after you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, have not participated in the debate, because you obviously still do not know what you are talking about. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: You weren't there all day!]] [[Further lively calls to the SPÖ.]] You are the actual birth-bearers in this salami tactic, which we find there: One piece after another is cut off from neutrality. For the purpose of applying and setting deadlines themselves: New documents are coming into the house almost every day, and today's troop statute has come. Significantly, it is already the second. It is called "State of Force Order" – that is, it is also called SOFOR – and it contains a number of things that confirm our request. Mr Moser! I would be glad if we could agree on whether it is a state agreement or a framework document. We are also of the opinion that it is a state treaty, and this status of troops, which I have received today, is quite right in my view that it is a state treaty, because here it is black on knows that all states are to be treated in such a way – including those who belong to the "partnership for peace" – as if they were states of the NATO Party. This is not my interpretation, but that is the interpretation that can be found in the explanations. It says that this article 1 – which I have quoted – is constitutional. Do you know that you have been informed in writing today, even though it has been decided for a long time? And you, as a Member of Parliament, have nothing to do with this, although today we have heard from German Chancellor Klima again that we are supposed to be those who ultimately decide on everything. That's a joke and a joke! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And if there is no other reason, it would be urgently necessary, at least since today, to apply for this deadline, in order to finally discuss the fact that there is a minister here who is responsible for the conclusion of the state agreements and is dealing with Parliament – this is a black-and-white issue – not informed by Parliament. There is no constitutional change so that this could be carried out at the legal level. These things are simply smuggled by Parliament. Today, this came with the mail. Look Before you find yourself here, Mr Maitz, and tell anything that has no basis at all! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Just like you now!]] Mr Scheibner. They confuse the executive with the legislative. There is still a difference as to whether I am a minister of this kind to represent, or whether I am a Member of this House, I would like to have it. I think the Federal Army is superfluous, that is my view, for that I am entering, on that I am discussing, for which I am also doing political events or actions. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are also sworn to the Constitution!]] That's my attitude. I can fight for it, I can stand for it, I can put my political conviction at risk for it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I am not a minister, I am not responsible for complying with the Constitution, nor do I conclude any state agreements, which are explained in the explanation that they are constitutional. I do not, but the Minister does, and that is the crucial point. And since you are wondering why we have tabled this as a motion for a resolution: We have chosen this form because we want to discuss it and because we have no other way of discussing the position of the Minister than with such a request on which a debate can take place in the Committee. There is a need to discuss it calmly once. How does a minister who is committed to the Constitution come to break a constitution almost every day and then tell us here that it is some framework document that has no political effect, some technical agreement? – We want to discuss this, and we will vote on it in the Constitutional Committee. We don't want any more, we don't want any less. Only today – or yesterday – has this document arrived, which will soon be discussed in Parliament, and this will take the next steps. It's a long way from the question: Women to the army!, this is a lot more. This is already about the "Partnership for Peace Plus" as it wants the SPÖ. This package already contains your concession. This is about the fidelity vow that is no longer made to the Republic. Where are the constitutional changes? – Do you know that this coalition government wants to dispose of this in the defense committee in the literal sense,...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14799	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14814	... instead of bringing it into the Constitutional Committee, where it belongs, because there are constitutional changes in it!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14844	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Tychtl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14866	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Nor do I hide that there are some criticisms about individual comments made by the Federal Minister for Defence of the State also by my group. My previous speaker rightly called for a discussion, and that is what we should do. I believe that it is all better to have critical statements followed, to have critical discussions in the committees provided for, and perhaps even to be able to take a change in the opinion you yourself have. [[Abg. Wabl: We want a parliamentary treatment!]] Mr. Wabl! It's excellent what you're saying out loud, but it won't be better because of the volume. I am like your colleague for a discussion, and we want to tackle that. However, since we are in principle to the German army, we want to hold this discussion, but will not give our approval to the proposal for a deadline, but also to the request concerning the failure of confidence towards the Minister of State for Defence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14901	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We shall come to the vote, and I ask the honourable Members to take the place each time. We shall vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 549/A (E) on the refusal of confidence to the Federal Minister of State for Defence for a period of up to 9. In December, the Council adopted a decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the European Economic Community, of the other part, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the Republic of Macedonia on the other hand, on the I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14943	I will now resume the negotiations on the VI advisory group on education and cultural matters. Mrs Motter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14975	Mr President. I would like to continue my speech, but this can only be done in the presence of Mrs Minister, since I have very specific questions to ask her.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14997	I am interrupting the sitting briefly to see if the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in the house, whether she is coming at once or whether it will take some time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15021	I'll start the interrupted session again. Mrs Motter! The Federal Minister is here now, you can continue your speech. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15054	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! I continue with cultural matters and have some specific questions to you. I would just like to point out to the museum that new projects are only slowly developing. For example, at the time of massive pressure from the public and the small opposition parties, the long-overdue renovation or construction of the Albertina has finally been started. My question, Mrs Minister, which I have already put to you in the Committee on Budgets, but which has not been answered, is therefore: When can the installation be inaugurated? To the Technical Museum: They called us the planned opening date, but I did not get an answer to the question of whether there is an institution concept. Maybe this could be re-introduced today. You have also promised us in the Committee on Budgets a list of the amounts to which museums are due. We have not yet received this list. Another unexplained point is the future of the Bundesdenkmalamt. For years, work has been being carried out on redrafting a monument protection law as well as the statutes of the Federal Monument Office. Two lines of thought are known to contradict: Should more competence and costs be transferred to the federal states, or should the expert power be strengthened in relation to the political wishes of mayors and national leaders? To this end, the Court of Auditors, in its 1993 review, recommended strengthening the position of the Federal Office and making it more autonomous. Mrs. Minister! Very concrete: Until when is the rewording of this law to be expected? In conclusion: Thank you, Mrs. Minister! All these are questions that have been answered to them, because many employees in the Federal Museums, in the Federal Monumental Office and in the National Library want a clarification of these questions. I therefore call on you to begin with the long overdue clarification.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15100	Next word: Mrs Horngacher. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15121	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The differentiated school system in Austria offers for each youth the appropriate school type to suit its individual abilities and interests. A comprehensive education is not only knowledge transfer, but also character formation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The increase in the budget in this area with a total of 2.3 billion schilling takes account of the importance and importance. Much has changed in the field of education, especially in recent years. The polytechnic school was further developed into a real school as a vocational preparation. It is an essential and central task to provide our young people with the opportunity to train skilled skilled workers in the future; the dual training system of our apprentices is recognized. Also future initiatives, such as vocational orientation in the 7th and 8th years. School level is very useful. Another positive development – I am particularly pleased about it – is the introduction of the professional maturity test. This will give young people who have graduated from a skilled labourer's teaching the opportunity to take advantage of another rail for higher qualifications. I am particularly pleased that this has succeeded, and I thank Mrs Gehrer for the realization. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also of great importance to agricultural schools. The graduates of the three-year-old agricultural schools can also make this professional maturity examination. In addition, one must say, agricultural vocational education is very good in particular. It allows young farmers to have two completed vocational training courses at the age of 20 years, which they need today as auxiliary farmers. They can do the three-year vocational school, this is based on the teaching, and can expect a shorter teaching time. So at the age of 20, they have two occupations. However, there are other projects to be pursued in the near future. The autonomy of schools has been increased, and in this area there will be further work priorities in the next few years. Schools are to be given more opportunities to design their own in the area of finance, the educational focus and the internal organisation. Integration as a basis for a more human society has also been implemented. Priority will also be given to the promotion of talent. A separate unit has been set up here. The partial rights of schools are also a good option in terms of financing and sponsorship. For the introduction of ethics, I would like to say the following: The provision of values is essential for the orientation of young people in our society, and no vacuum is allowed by the detoxification of religious teaching. Therefore mandatory ethics teaching as an alternative to religious teaching makes sense. I am particularly pleased that we now also have a vocational college in Kufstein. To my previous speakers, I would like to say the following: Mr Schweitzer – he is no longer in the room, but he will hear it anyway – has claimed that his applications would not be implemented. I would like to say that – I have this experience from the teaching committee – his reasonable requests have been implemented, but all were not reasonable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To Mrs Schaffenrath: They asked our minister if the focus of school policy was on teachers or teachers' trade unions. I am convinced that the students are at the centre. But you have spoken more differentiatedly today, Mrs Deputies. They said there was no will to design. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That's right!]] However, her press releases are always aimed at sending our Minister as an announcement politician. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That is true in many areas too!]] But that's not her. It has a high willingness to design and a very high degree of implementation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say to Mrs Madl: I do not want to be an opposition politician, if it is absolutely linked to having to do everything wrong, even if it goes very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] According to IFES study, very high satisfaction with our school system and also with the woman minister is given. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: I think so!]] We should be able to enjoy it together.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15215	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is not in the hall. That's why the word message has expired. [[Abg. Kiss: Of the Greens there is no one at all!]] At the moment, only Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, and that is why this word message has expired. I'll call the next speaker. This is Mr. Dr. Grollitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15245	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you for the unusually factual and detailed reply to the 20 written requests made by the liberals. If you wanted to lend me your inclined ear – it's about praise and thanks to your officials. The questions have been answered in detail, in any case in an unusual form for us, and that is what has been said here. I would also like to draw attention to the five questions I have raised in the field of cultural matters. They have addressed us, show us that the Court of Auditors' criticism of the higher development of the number of artistic staff at the Hofmusikkapelle has its reasons. I would also like to thank you for the presentation of the numbers of visitors – at least for those museums under your administration that have rates of increase. The fact that the Monet exhibition is primarily responsible for the increase in the total number would be complementary. We can also find out about the use of the famous Museums billions as an opposition via a further answer. In this context, I would like to ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to support a freedom of movement. From the current point of view, the Sinteure Planungschaos around the Technical Museum leads the vehicle or railway museum in the extended museum to have no place. As your answer to the question shows, the former core of the Technical Museum, the railway section, will not bother you, which is why you ask the heads of state of five federal states for ideas. Mrs. Federal Minister! Forget the unfortunate idea of Siegendorf, let the dislodged variants sauce and try to house the railway museum in the converted museum. Don't miss the planned lighthouseattack and the rusty Bessemerbirne in favor of an enlarged vehicle department. The visitors would thank you! Now a few words on education policy. In the course of the discussion of Mr Schweitzer's speech, you meant that the train had left. Mrs. Federal Minister! The train in which you want to be a locust has at least no high school wagon attached. In the luggage car of your train, the shadow school of the follow-up school is carried along. In the first class, the red and black party book directors are still sitting. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the second class, I think, there is a lot of motivated and through the pension reform also humiliated, especially younger colleagues. In this train, a levelling of education policy goes down, an unfortunate professional maturity test, an unattainable learning target catalogue and an insurmountable frontal education. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Behind your train, Mrs. Federal Minister, expensive young teachers are running after the above-average talented ones and all those students who are hungry for vocational training. A car hangs on your train, and it's filled with people who have lost their lives, so I ended up with my Ceterum-censeo theme, namely, school sports. They have found a few words on school sports today and are trying to make us know that 29 percent increase in school sports weeks. Forget to mention the period during which this happened. According to my information, from 1992 to 1996, this increase was mainly due to the strengthening of summer school weeks. I would ask you, however, to submit the figures of the last year of study to us for the sake of honesty. Especially the comparison with the next school year will open your eyes. They also boast that 23 percent of students participate in nonbinding exercises, half of them exercise. This means that 11.5 percent attend nonbinding exercises including healing. If the figures made available to us by the working group on precautionary medicine recently, namely that 50 to 60 percent of all 8 to 18-year-old students in Austria have damage to their attitudes and attitudes, are related, then I believe that there is a need for recovery here. I am always apologized by you as an anachronistic solonoergler because of my critical speech to school sports. Therefore, I will bring you a section from an article of the "Tyrol daily newspaper" from the spring of this year to the "Day of School Sports" in Seefeld. There the body's educators said: It's not just moving here and there, it's going everywhere in school sports – with a bold protest against the balding of health, joy, fun and relaxation, a protest against the degradation of the motor function development and personality formation of our students. The "Day of School Sports" in Tyrol was a cry and a cry for help from 2,000 schoolchildren' throats concerning school sport. This is a quote from your home country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15311	Mrs Krammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15332	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Potzblitz!]] Mr Höchtl has said that Mr Schweitzer's speech is to have patience. I do not at all share this view of Mr Höchtl. When I see that the Swiss Karli is on the list of speakers, joy comes to my mind because it is a pleasure to talk to him. He always gives me "imposed", so I can fit so well. With him I have the impression that he takes his speech out of the moth box, dusts her a bit, and then he reads her again. That's what the speeches look like. You hear sentences like: The efficiency of our education is not getting started. – He is not at all aware that there is a global ranking in which our public schools rank first. Where is he, Karli? – Do not keep him shut when I speak, he should listen and listen to it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There is an OECD ranking, where we are 9th in terms of natural sciences. Next quote from Schweitzer Karli: The team's ability is needed. - I've written. Unfortunately, Mr Oellinger is not here, but I told him anyway. Dear colleague Oillinger! You have misunderstanded the sweater Karli, because you've provided him with something he doesn't have: Know. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Go to cuckoo! Now get to the point!]] The cuckoo is a decent bird, believe me! The lamb vulture will soon come to you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: No, the cuckoo!]] Mr Oellinger did not understand the Schweitzer Karli because he accused the teachers of lack of teamwork. [[Abg. Haigermoser: In Ornithology you are not at home! You should know the vulture!]] I conclude from the very negative remark he made about the German Trade Academy and Trade School in Oberpulendorf. He pretended to know this school. I put him under, he knows the gym at best, and nothing else. Tell him if he didn't understand. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You should go there once!]] That was a strong piece of what he allowed himself to do. I will tell the teachers at the Federal Trade Academy and Trade School in Oberpulendorf. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Body proficiency would do you good!]] I say the comments to Karli in a quiet hour when he can bear it if he can stand it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing. Schweitzer Karli wrote in the main book: Without teaching team ability and using team skills, it would be impossible to teach today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker]] There are subjects in which there is no other way than teaching team skills and demanding them from the students. There is project teaching, there are practice firms, and there are objects such as accounting and business management. He has never heard of that before, but he goes here, dusts his speech and reads it to us again – just like every year. Gifted! Send another one! Let him write a new speech! [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Schweitzer Karli has never heard the word "project education" and you have not heard it, highly esteemed for speakers! - Where is he? I've written along. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mrs Colleague! Now we have to build a protection zone, otherwise you'll still be in our ranks!]] You have told all the serious things, Mrs. Minister, that must have appalled you: "transboundary frontal education". Great God, that's the ancient age, that's the Stone Age in class! That's what the Freedom Party is talking about today. You have to give it to yourself! Pauli, this must be broken on the tongue! – He is a teacher from a very good school from Burgenland. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Pauli!]] [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Mrs. Health Minister! There's no such thing!]] [[New cheerfulness and condolences with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Another thing: I'll stay with you right now. Last time you were my previous speaker, and I enjoyed that. They give me so good passports, too. They were talking about the damage to the attitude. Don't ask the teachers! The teachers are supposed to be guilty of everything! Yeah, what else?- Oh, my God! One must also have the courage to tell the parents: Make sure, dear parents, that the children move more in leisure time, and don't fill them with fries, and don't put them on TV. [[Lively cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] - That's it! That too is health. Then I'll tell you something: A very vague and clever Burgenländerin has invented a very intelligent school bag. This can be worn in the front and back of the back. Buy her! The liberals are so rich anyway – no wonder at this obsessor! Buy it for all Austria, for every child. The Burgenländer will be happy, she will become a millionaire. Now I would like to write something to Schweitzer Karli in the main book: Does he know what quality management is? Does he know that this has long since taken place in schools? – Again: Let's write you a new speech, Karli, who's stowed old! – Now it’s enough, or I’ll devote too much time to him. I'd like to add something else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] - Yeah, that makes sense. I write it myself, I think it itself, and I speak it myself. This is inimitable. Don't bring that together! [[Lively cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ and ÖVP, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Rarely so "jelacht"! Rarely "jelach"!]] - No, you really do. I'm pretty slow about that. I would like to say something about the press release, after which many training places have been offered in the secondary school system, namely 5 600. In other words, many children have found room in school. That may have its accuracy, and we are pleased. But my topic and our topic are always the children who didn't want to go to school, but who were looking for a teaching place. But although the Federal Chancellor has offered a lot of support to the economy, I must say that the economy has unfortunately not found itself sufficiently willing and ready to provide these apprenticeships. So, when children look for apprenticeships and don't get them, you have to offer them something. I would offer, in agreement with the teachers, that the children should be brought to schools in the afternoon – there is no need for an additional school room – and that they should be taught the skills they will then be able to find a apprenticeship as well-qualified young people. Every teacher will take his fingers off after these apprentices, because they will actually be excellent. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The offer is, that's all about the teachers. You're actually ready to do that. It is very pleasant to talk about a budget chapter that has received more resources in relation to the previous year. For it is expressed in a visible and tangible way – even in savings times – that the Federal Government is well aware of the importance and importance of training, aware of the fact that the foundation for this training is laid in schools, and is also aware of the need for motivated employees to do so. With the increase in budget resources, the Federal Government has made a commitment to these employees – with all its savings, with all the pressure to do so – to those people in whose hands the training of our young people lies. This motivation by increasing the budget is essential. Because I only need to refer to my esteemed predecessor. Everyone believes that because he has had to deal with the teachers at some point in his life, he can trample around on this professional group. That's what I'm trying to keep from doing. I'm part of that, too. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Teachers are treated as such as general goods, everyone can express themselves in a deficient way, that is, in a negative way – with the thought of being behind, from some point of view, the applause will come. The school has the function of a social repair workshop, much to my displeasure and to my displeasure, and on the other hand, I have to remember all the seriousness. There is hardly any problem with young people, sounds the call to school, to teachers to accept this problem. Why has this and that not been done long ago? - This evil teacher, that evil school! Of course, teachers are aware that, in a school, one should not be limited to the provision of knowledge. Of course, the school must also teach others. That's what happens. It is necessary to take a little care of what is being done in the Austrian schools. Only one thing is important – I return to my starting point: You can't overload the school that teachers do. Then they will resign. Because then they have to capitulate before the task that society, the general public, and – I also say it quite openly – which some politicians apply to or demand from teachers. For the opposition, it is natural – under quotations – to talk to a budget, when you start, say everything and demand everything and let Easter, Christmas and Pentecost fall on one day. You don't have to answer it! I would ask you to cooperate in a constructive manner once and also to acknowledge that the high performance of our school system has been preserved. We are constantly trying to increase this performance, and no one, but nobody needs to be afraid of the quality – not today and not tomorrow. The tasks to be solved in the future do not always depend on budget resources. These are also often dependent on the self-understanding of teachers. Recognition, respect, respect and spiritual support for the work of teachers in Austrian schools do not require a budget overrun. I would like to invite you all: We work together on the Austrian school system! A request to all who otherwise like to do so: Let the teachers out of your criticism, these work hard enough. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15566	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15587	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I'm not going to get to the entertainment value of my previous speaker by far. [[Abg. Kiss: It's hard!]] It certainly can't do the general image of the Burgenland if you train people as a representative of the Burgenland. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] – You have to make an image campaign for the Burgenländer. I can imagine the sympathys flying everywhere. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The issue is, however, the budget. Congratulations, Mrs. Minister! They succeeded in raising the budget. But you will also urgently need this increase, because you will have to – although tomorrow's "curer" is otherwise titled: "Teachers: Gehrer let Chancellor Klima flash off" – because of the German government's apprentice policy, the in vain job-seekers "park in between" your schools for at least one year. You will also need this money urgently, because this means that you will have to cover the somewhat increased youth unemployment. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! On the other hand, they are trying, on the other hand, to eliminate a reason for youth unemployment, as we read from the Council of Ministers' Protocols: They are planning a vocational preparation in the stages. This will also be very urgent, but I assume that this job preparation will be held again in the regular hours. But this makes a mistake: In fact, as far as teachers tell me, because of the overload of the curriculum of important training time, there is no longer any substantial basic skills. It is often important to read something in the small regional supplements of the newspapers. Thus, in the "Little Newspaper" of the 26th year, complaints are made. On October 2, two entrepreneurs from our region. They are probably known by colleagues Seidinger, and Mrs Huber, too, is familiar with them. The two entrepreneurs complain that it is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain suitable apprentices. It's getting worse from year to year. There are two examples. This is what a company owner says: It is constantly drawn over the entrepreneurs, but it is almost impossible to get suitable apprentices. This includes: Analysts? The same problem has been faced by another entrepreneur who says that he has given a test example: How much square meter does a 2 meter wide and 6 meter long soil produce? – The candidates for this apprenticeship could not carry out this field calculation. Mrs. Minister! I think that is an essential reason. Basic skills that are necessary, as the colleague mentioned earlier, so that the apprentices can be accommodated, are lost. This is certainly an essential reason why children can no longer be accommodated in this way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – Thank you for the long-earned applause! I am somewhat surprised, Mrs Minister, about your comment in the Committee on the unemployed teachers. You have been accused of having 7 000 unemployed teachers, and you have noted that only 1 800 have been reported in the labour market service. So where are these unemployed teachers? Mrs. Minister! As you know, it makes no sense for a teacher who has never worked to report unemployed because he cannot get a job, since he has never worked. From this point of view, the unemployed teachers should be asked to report so that the actual number can be raised once. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! At the end of my old proposal: One should look at the schools – I also pointed out in the committee – which could still be put together. I know from my home community, there are two primary schools and two elementary schools each housed in a building. I assume that there are synergies, but I know that if we put together the two schools, it would be possible to increase the number of students and, of course, the number of partitions would be higher and also a reduction in the number of teachers. Therefore, there is considerable resistance to the representatives of the teachers' interests. However, I believe that it would pay off to investigate this matter. Where is there still synergies? Where are there savings? – The savings cannot, of course, go at the expense of the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15647	Mr Amon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15668	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am a little surprised at the statements made by Mr Schöggl, who is trying to present the situation as if the Federal Government were responsible for the problem we have with the unemployed young teachers. On the contrary: The Federal Government has, through a special offer of older teachers and young teachers, explicitly tried to take measures to counter this problem. But you also have to stick to the truth: It is true that for more than ten years, it has been known that it is extremely difficult to complete a course of teaching, then to find a job immediately. So let's stay serious! Mr Grollitsch spoke today about a moving train on which different wagons hang. I had the impression that he came to the station too late and only saw the train from behind. In fact, it is a pleasure to speak to the field of education, because both the measures taken in the recent past and the measures on the table are quite positive. It is not often enough to recall what has happened with Minister of Education Gehrer lately. I am thinking of the integration of the disabled, I am thinking of the recognition of foreign school visits, I am thinking of easing the ban on advertising, and I am thinking of massive progress in connection with school autonomy. In this context, it should be noted that the package on partial jurisdiction, which has now been passed by the Council of Ministers, is a very successful measure. In fact, schools are offered autonomy, scope for action. There, too, the liberals are in truth looking for the train again. Mr Höchtl has already said today: They demand that, and we have implemented it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This measure also ensures that pupils' participation in the School Community Committee is extended. I would particularly like to stress the professional maturity test, which is a milestone in education policy. With the school organisation law Novelle, now adopted by the Council of Ministers, there is also the possibility for vocational schools to offer a corresponding preparation for this professional maturity test via the way of free goods. However, I would like to say something if I refer to reforms in connection with the apprentices. It is true that when a storm rises, some – that is, an old Chinese proverb – tend to build a wall but build sailboats with large sails. Our sailboat, with which we are on the road, is a three-master, a three-master, consisting of the permeability, differentiation and possibilities we offer. I can contact the coalition partner in this respect because tomorrow's "curer" brings this issue. I'd ask you: Consider once again whether you do not at last give your consent to the teaching. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For I am quite honest with you that those measures that we have taken in the last few weeks and months together in the apprenticeship sector have certainly borne fruit. Given the figures – in October 1996 we had 44,987 teaching contracts in the first year of teaching, and in October 1997 we had 47,662 teaching contracts in the first year of teaching – one can say that these measures have taken place. There are 3 000 young people who are still looking for a job, and we can also include them in the work process through the way in which part-time teaching is done. I do not think it is a solution, as Mr Schweitzer said today, that the primary schools are being converted into secondary schools. I don't know what to do. This is obviously to be the total commercial school of between 10 and 17 years old. I believe that this cannot be the solution. The solution can only be if, on the one hand, we have put up on the top of the professional maturity test and have managed to achieve permeability, so to speak, so to speak, so that even those who complete a teaching can find the way to higher education, that it is precisely those who at first obviously do not have the ability to complete a fuller course, that they can also be able to obtain vocational training and a degree through the way of participation. I think this is important, I think it is necessary, and I would ask the representatives of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the SPÖ not to oppose it any further, not to build a wall, but to heat the sails and continue to sail successfully into the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say: I am pleased that in the 1998 budget estimate 3 billion schillings are more planned. This is a success of our Mrs. Federal Minister! It also has reformers on its side. It is a good sign if a minister of education always has the student representation behind him. I know about friends from the student office. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have the student representation and the reformers on your side, and you remain for us what you are, the mother Courage of Austrian education policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15749	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15771	Mr Amon! If you knew the contents of the book "Mother Courage", you would probably not have referred this term to the woman minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon said that we were once again looking at the train. That may be already, but I have to tell you: If the train is going in a wrong direction, it is good that you look at this train, and in this move we don't necessarily have to sit down in the wrong direction when it is driving in the wrong direction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Amon! They're talking about us looking at the train. That's the difference: We sometimes like to look at the train, but you look after the voters you lose constantly. However, it is remarkable that the ÖVP has succeeded in a piece of art that has never occurred in the Second Republic, namely the work of art, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, that during a current legislative period without new elections a large coalition will become a small coalition. That should actually give you some thought! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A short time ago, on the question of the museum quarter, which Mr Morak has addressed. We know that there is now the Federal Monumental Office's notice and that the groundwork will soon be expected. However, the euphoria, which Mr Morak wants to spread here, is not divided into broadest sections of the population, but also into circles of experts, but must be presented as a single one. For example, once the executive architects are not satisfied; this is not a question at all, because their design is not very much left. Furthermore, dissatisfaction are those who have acted to a large extent to preserve the substance of the fisherman-by-peel ensemble. But the people concerned are also dissatisfied. Think of Dieter Schrage, who is close to anything other than the Freeman, who is a member of the curatorium of the Museum of Modern Art, who is very dissatisfied with the fact that the Museum of Modern Art, which is also housed in a commission, is ultimately to be transferred to the Museum Quarter and a smaller exhibition space is available in the Museum Quarter than now in the Provision. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, the taxpayers are dissatisfied. Before a brick of the reconstruction of the museum quarter is moved, 600 million schillings have already been "breathed" and have already been written. That is to say, the bill paid by the taxpayers, and of course it does not remain with this 600 million schilling, because now only the construction is started. On the other hand, there is the museum of the "Albertina". The "Albertina" houses the largest graphic collection in the world. Here are unique exhibits, but they cannot be made accessible to a general public. You know that the "Albertina" is essentially closed. It does not appear to be understandable that on the one hand, 600 million schilling of pure project costs and preliminary costs at the museum quarter will be "brown" and on the other hand, the "Albertina" remains inaccessible for the population and it rains further because of tree failure. Ladies and gentlemen! The Bundesdenkmalmamt, whose President Dr. Sailer is known to retire, has already been mentioned. I refer briefly to a chapter which is normally dealt with politically rather harshly, namely the chapter of the Federal Monument. By the retirement of Dr. Sailer – I think at the end of the year or at 30. 11th@item: inlistbox In 1997, he enters the retirement, as I hope, well-deserved; after giving a farewell gift in the form of a positive commemorative note for the museum quarter, he retires – the post is re-opened. I have this job invitation before me, and I think you, Mrs Bundesminister, that this job invitation is illegal and not comprehensible. In fact, in addition to the existence of a public service relationship or the existence of the conditions for the acquisition in such and other conditions, the application requirement is also the conclusion of the study of the law. However, it is now in another paragraph that, if there are no suitable candidates, this requirement may be removed. Then an applicant who has completed a study of art history, architecture or restoration and conservation can be involved. That means, first, exclude him: Prerequisite of the application is a study of the legal sciences!, and afterwards you suddenly include it again. So one who is not allowed to apply could theoretically come to the train, but he cannot get to the train legally because he is not allowed to apply. This is a contradiction in itself. We went to the bottom of the matter. Of course, there is a background, and this background seems to be that this position is already large-scale and this call for tender is a mere call for proposals. Mrs. Federal Minister! I call on you to take a position, because these terms of call are illegal and inconclusive.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15847	Mr Ddr. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Decliner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15868	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Schöggl meant – it is worth taking a closer look at it –: If we also offer young people who are currently looking for a training opportunity, they will be "parked" somewhere. "Interparked" he meant. That's what I'm asking myself: What kind of picture do you have of our middle and higher education schools, in which excellent educational work is actually done? [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: None at all!]] They may not even know that we even have a school, namely the HTL in the Spengergasse, which has not only managed to offer excellent training, but has even achieved in a new contract with an English university that the graduates of an Austrian HTL can enter there in the second part of a full academic study. – An international exchange on the one hand, a very high recognition for our school system as a whole. – You can’t say that if we want to offer such training places, we’ll ‘park’ someone there! A sentence on youth unemployment: There is no doubt that for us too it is not satisfactory that young people are still looking for an apprenticeship or another training place. But we already have to leave the church in the village. If you look at the success or failure of this "spent" of unemployment in Europe, it is noted that Austria is second in terms of total unemployment to Luxembourg, in other words in second best position. As regards youth unemployment, Austria has for a long time had the lowest figures, namely about 4.5 percent. This is a value that no other state in Europe can reach nearer. In this respect, we must continue our efforts, but this must also be recognized. I would like to mention two of the topics that are about to come up or have to be completed. One is the integration of the disabled, for which, I think, Parliament has created the conditions for it to be implemented in schools. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, also have excellent experts in your home. I think, however, that it is sometimes necessary to increase the pressure on you to make it clear from your point of view that this joint teaching of disabled and unimpeded children is a major concern for us. The professional maturity test has also been mentioned. This is an offer that we will soon be expanding by providing preparation for vocational schools. It was also not quite easy to provide for these free-stocks, which were promised by the EIA's colleague. In the end, there was a clarification from your side as well. The trade union has been discussed several times today in this room, and I am already concluding with that. It was put down as a braker by the trade union, Mr Oellinger meant this, Mr Schaffenrath also mentioned about that, and also spokesperson of the liberals. I admit that I too sometimes find it difficult to reach a conclusion with the colleagues of the trade union or the teachers' unions. Sometimes it was really very hard when it came to school reforms – Director of Respective School LeadersIn time, I think; it wasn't easy at all – but in the end one must be clear to us: The trade unions are not always there to make it easy for us in politics, they are there to represent the interests of their members. They do that with all vehemence, and that is true. We should not want to live in a state in which the trade unions have nothing more or little to say, because then we are all worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15906	Next word: Mrs Mag. Moser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15927	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have heard some of the songs of the holocaust to the school autonomy, the holocaust to the partial jurisdiction of the school. I would like to accompany this song with some basic sounds from practice. Thesis one: School autonomy does not mean debureaucratisation. Personal example one: Because of the country election, I was released. Instead of being a young colleague – German and history are my subjects – it was commissioned with the representation, but in a first class AHS taught five teachers in one week because there were five German hours. I returned to school after the country election and taught five weeks. I was practically the sixth German teacher. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: That's bad!]] Now it goes on: After my resumption of parliamentary work, the seventh German teacher or the seventh German teacher now comes into class. This is red tape. In this way one does not live up to the educational assignment of the school. – That was thesis one, example one. Thesis two: the Song of the School Autonomy. You manage yourself, you get yourself, you can handle a lot yourself. Financially responsible is the Directorate. I bring the example number two from another school: It is important to set up a school library. Furniture were delivered. Computers must be ordered earlier, but have not been ordered. There is a powerful computer, but it is not put into the library, but it remains as a status symbol in the management office, although the head of the school itself cannot deal with it. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: This is a man?- Oh, my God!]] The library remains closed. – That was the example number two, for which school autonomy can lead in practice. I know it's often due to a lack of direction. Example number three: Part-righteousness, the current example, has already been pointed out. This means that the school can organise financial resources on the basis of advertising revenue. So far, so good. Concrete: The school milk action ended at our school. There is a machine whose first floor is filled with milk, the second with any dairy products et cetera. There are at the same time at our school saying and writing – I counted it – four "Cola" machines that also offer other drinks of, say, slightly dubious health value. All these machines need power. School autonomy on the one hand, partial jurisdiction on the other. Now you can take rental fees for the machines. That's 5 600 S per machine. On the other hand, these machines hang on the school's power grid. Electricity costs – we have the commercial tariff of 3 S –: 7 700 S. The perfide of this is not that the negative bill carries the school, but the electricity costs is paid by the National School Council, in the final effect is the teaching establishment. The profits of 5 000 s remain the school, but in total the public hand in favour of the "Cola" group or this international multi has done a wonderful sponsoring campaign of over 2 000 S. – This is an example of the so-called partial jurisdiction. That's how it looks when you calculate the whole thing. That's all very small with bills. Part-righteousness, of course, also means other advertising revenue from the school. Today the "Fanta" advertising in the gym environment has already been brought as an example. In this respect, I can also lead at least three schools. And what educational effect this "Fanta" advertising has, you can calculate on two fingers. Milk consumption has declined dramatically, the "Fanta" and "Cola" consumption has increased dramatically. When the students are finished with the gymnastics, they storm the machines. This is certainly not in the sense and purpose of a school that, as a top educational goal since the 1960s, still has "the true, the good and the beautiful" in the classics of German humanism. Only this humanism has long since given way to international corporations such as "Unilever", "Fanta", "Cola" et cetera. This schizophrenia is now constantly being shown to us by teachers during teaching. Put yourself in the position of such a gymnast who constantly has the "Fanta" or "Cola" advertising! You just need to imagine that here under the Bundesadler would permanently hang the "Brau AG" sign. Would you feel comfortable in such an environment? Would you consider that appropriate for this House? - I don't think so.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15978	Next word: Mrs Rauch-Kallat. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16000	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In my speech today, I wanted to limit myself to the integration of disabled children in the general school system, but after reading the "Kurier", I would also like to make a brief comment on the problem of teaching places. In view of a large number of unemployed people and a large number of job-seekers, the Federal Government has set itself a very ambitious goal, which we can fully stress, namely that no youth should be on the street. This goal was achieved by creating additional teaching facilities on the economy and by creating additional schools in higher education schools and in general higher schools. The Federal Chancellor has set himself an even more ambitious and particularly courageous goal, namely to feel personally responsible for each individual apprentice. He also offered in the summer that everyone could contact him personally if he was standing on the street. I take a comment from my colleague, the Secretary-General or the managing director of the Social Democratic Party, who very much surprised me today, namely that Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer had not fulfilled her task. I should like to quote quite clearly from the Council of Ministers' presentation: It was decided in Rust that 5,600 schools should be created in addition and that 5 632 pupils in 291 classes should be more taught in higher education alone since the start of the school, and that more should be taught at higher education schools in general. – That means that the Minister of Education has not only fulfilled her job in Rust, but has been overcrowded, because instead of 5,600, there are now 7 632 schools. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will certainly not allow the Chancellor, because he has not achieved the courageous and ambitious goal he has set, to the extent that he is now trying to get rid of our Minister of Education. We will certainly not be able to give this agreement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: I thought that was a joint action by the government!]] But let me now say a few sentences about the integration of disabled children in the general school system in the little time – we have agreed on a very short speaking time. You know that the integration of disabled children has always been of particular concern to me, because it was not so easy for me to get a place for my own daughter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Mrs Mertel! In my short speaking time, I would like to dedicate myself to disabled children. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mrs. Secretary-General! Was that not a joint action?]] If it was a joint action, I also expect Mr Rudas to act accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And now please let me kindly talk about the disabled children in the short time I have left of the 5 minutes, because this is a very special concern to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] It is very sad that you are not interested in disabled children, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Gaál: (on Abg. Grabner clearly) You're talking, and there's practice!]] I can say something about this: I have a blind daughter who is 27 years old. [[Abg. Gaál: I will tell you once what the truth is! Just what you're touching!]] May I tell you something about the practice of rearing a disabled child? I have a 27-year-old blind daughter. [[Abg. Gaál: We know that!]] I have experienced all the heights and depths of a parent with a disabled child, the debate in school, the question of integration. I think I can certainly talk about credibility in this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Right!]] Unfortunately, it is almost impossible for me to say a lot about it now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] It is, I believe, a very important approach with the 17th century. School Organisation Act Novelle succeeded, namely the legal anchorage to continue the integration into the upper level of the folk school, in the primary school and in the lower level of the AHS. I am also very glad that the continuation of polytechnic schools has become possible. A very important aspect for parents of disabled children in general special schools is also the possibility to attend these twelve years in order to bridge the time to vocational training, until the maturity is also reached in the special school child, and also to teach the child a school degree. I also believe that it has succeeded in achieving quite positive results in the school tests carried out. In the integration classes, success has been achieved not only among disabled children, but also, above all, among non-inhibited children, with the fact that their social competence has increased considerably through natural, permanent contact and contact with disabled children. I believe that, even though there are sometimes difficulties in some cases, one must try to find individual solutions that can call integration a successful model.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16153	Mrs Fuchs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16174	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to address a very up-to-date problem, namely the flexible design of the school entrance area, which has been successfully carried out for a number of years in the framework of school tests, but has been able to be started last time due to the current legal requirements in this school year. Unfortunately, a transfer to regular schooling is not yet planned. Each individual child enters this new phase of life at the beginning of compulsory schooling with different preliminary experiences, wishes and needs. Most children are very motivated and powerful. But each child brings with it other facilities, a different level of knowledge and development, in short: other learning requirements. The aim must, therefore, be to shape schooling in such a way that, as far as possible, all children can start successfully and all can be offered sufficient opportunities to develop and develop their physical, mental and mental facilities in peace and without negative pressure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The starting conditions at the start of the school are marked by the further school career to a significant extent. With the introduction of a flexible model of school entry into the regular education system, there is a unique opportunity to offer equal opportunities for those children who have not been able to make use of all the offers due to different access to the education system. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot understand that children with special educational needs, children with disabilities of various kinds or children with non-German mother tongues can be taught successfully. And I emphasize: successful!This is what my previous speaker, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, said, and I can only confirm it. It is true that these school tests have really been successful, so it is possible that children with delays in development will be taught together with other children. It is only a shame that they cannot yet benefit from this special possibility of integration. The fact that for a large number of early school students the first contact with the school can be associated with disappointments, frustrations or a failure to start shows how important the flexible form of the school entrance phase is also in terms of a positive attitude to a later desirable life-long learning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know that 1,700 children are rejected each year in the absence of so-called school maturity. We know that 17 percent of pupils are transferred to the existing preschool classes. And we know that in comparison to this, only 4.5 percent of students remain for three years in an integrative form of school entry. We also know, however, that 60 per cent of public schools – especially in rural areas – have no possibility of pre-school classes, so that there is usually a provision in the domestic area and thus the chance of special funding has been called into question. On the basis of the facts just mentioned, it follows for me that the school must be mature for the children and not vice versa. The school is no longer solely responsible for the provision of knowledge and not only for the development of learning and performance, but also for the development of personality and development of all abilities and talents. In particular, the primary school should be designed as a place of life and learning and convey confidence in success and self-confidence. In order to ensure all this, a legally binding regulation is essential. I therefore call for the introduction of the flexible form of school entry into regular schooling for my group. It is our political responsibility to give all children the right to an optimal educational opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16237	I call Mr Stampler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16259	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If one speaks over and over again of the fact that the budget is a government programme cast in figures, it follows that one can rightly be proud of this government. With far-reaching vision, this government has recognized that the future of our country lies in youth. Thus, the Federal Minister Gehrer was able to achieve that in times of general saving, the budget chapter 12 was one of only a few higher. For us, therefore, education policy is a future policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the field of education, this means: Sustained to accept the challenge, be open to new things. Sustained: We have a high quality at our school, as international comparison studies always confirm us. We need to secure and expand this level. With openness for new things, I mean autonomy and decentralization, self-employment and self-responsibility of teachers and students and modernisation of curriculum. We must face these trends. The 1988 estimate is intended to cover 69.4 billion schilling of expenditure. Nearly 26 billion schillings are related to personnel expenditure and 43.5 billion schillings on property expenditure. This means an increase compared to the previous year by 636 million schilling in the personnel and by 1.6 billion schilling in the case. By 1999, more is spent on the school resort, 4.5 billion schilling, and 2.5 billion schilling for the science sector. Despite a reduction in the number of public service posts from 250,000 to 220 000, 500 new teachers will be recruited in the future, as the number of pupils increases. Together with the early retirement model, this will effectively combat teacher unemployment. The ÖVP with Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer has declared education policy a priority goal for the future. It is necessary to give young people new prospects through new and improved training opportunities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the ÖVP, for the Federal Minister and for me it is clear: The Federal Ministry of Education must be one of the most important ministries in our country. Austria's schools are to be the best in terms of both supply and equipment in international comparison. We need the best teachers and the most motivated educators. That is why we should be careful not to join the general teacher’s hatred. We need performance standards. We must ask the students, and we must also promote them. Every 14-year-old should be able to deal with computer and perhaps play an instrument as a rounding out of his musical talent. The autonomy may not yet be properly implemented. As I believe, therefore, accompanying measures are sensible and necessary. District school inspectors and directors are already being trained. The aim of the AHS is to provide a wide range of training in the field of university further education. If you speak with student representatives, they shall notify the following wishes: Special courses as a preparation for the study, even more projects at the AHS than before, and possibly also the involvement of students in the field of partial jurisdiction. In the field of general-education higher schools with national teachers, an increase in the budget approach from 1993 to 1998 was achieved from 40.51 percent to 45.42 percent, which is very welcome. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] If much has been said about integration today, I must say that I am pleased that the approaches could also be increased in the chapters "School Supervision" and "Scholipsychological Education". I believe that these two institutions have important advisory activities to do. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to stress the importance of investment in the education of our children. With the best students, the best schools, the best teachers and – I would like to insert this – with the best minister, we will be able to survive in European competition and struggle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense: Those who invest in the future invest in security and thus also in the stability of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16344	I call Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16365	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been discussed several times in this debate about the professional maturity test for apprentices. It became reality thanks to a decision here in the House. It has also been said by Mr Amon, among other things, that it has been a milestone in education policy. I agree. I think that the implementation phase has now begun and that it must also be an objective to offer free free courses during vocational schooling to those interested apprentices who choose this path. If, for example, I think of the central vocational school building in Vienna, I must say that it would probably not be so difficult to organize cross-school offers there in German, mathematics or English. There are time resources in the evening or on Saturday. I think that we could start and complete the implementation phase relatively quickly. But it would also be imaginable for me, if necessary – and I emphasize: if necessary! – to allow the co-use of national and federal teachers in these courses. One could certainly easily organize this through a clearing post in the area of school administration. Of course, it is necessary to ensure the necessary financial resources for these offers. Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Mr Amon spoke briefly about the professional maturity test. He meant: We opened the education system up. I fully agree with you, Mr President. In your next sentence, however, you mentioned the part lesson. And I thought of it: Now he'll just say we have to open down. You didn't say that, but I thought of it. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Amon and Dr. Brinek.]] In fact, if we follow the proposals of the Austrian People's Party, the partial teaching is a better auxiliary work. You have not been able to convince us with your previous concepts that this is a useful thing for young people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] And if you say that there are still 3 000 young people who are looking for a teaching centre and who we want to involve in the work process, I ask the youth spokesperson or the head of the ÖVP youth, but together with all the constructive forces in this House to ensure that we get regular apprenticeships for these 3 000 young people and do not have to invent something new. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also believe that these 3,000 young people who are still looking for an apprenticeship will also have the skills to complete a teaching. Therefore, we must do everything we can to find apprenticeships. We just need to screw up the sleeves! If Mrs. Col. Rauch-Kallat said that the Federal Chancellor was brave in his statement that he was trying to find a place for everyone, whether school or apprenticeship, I must say: I do not think that this is necessarily a sign of courage. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Personally responsible!]] Okay. They said: a courageous initiative. [[Abg. Smoking callat: Mustig is the personal responsibility!]] I think this is not necessarily courage, but something that should be of course for all of us: If we realize that there is no perspective in this Republic for 15 years, we must together ensure that it has a perspective and a chance for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16434	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16456	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! A brief comment to my previous speaker: Consider the partial teaching model as a modular way of completing a degree. Free yourself a little from the ideological narrowness and from the idea that we just want to make a downgrading. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can look forward to further developments and discussions with great hope, and I would like to get involved in the final basic consideration of the school and teacher systems and try to find out why there has sometimes been movement or irritation in the school or teacher world. I think it has never been so strenuous and exciting and challenging to be teachers – because at the same time so much is expected. The teacher – it is always meant by the teacher – is meant to be at the same time traditional mediators, lifelong craftsmen, leisure and group educators, holistic therapists and what else do I know to be. A colleague once described this: "From Pauker over the pump to the animator." In addition, the teacher should also be the administrative and executive body of a particular state policy expectation and, at the same time, the independent education manager. This requires a lot, and for some teachers this has been a great change over the last 10, 15 years. And not always was the fact that he was only motivated. I believe, however, that most of the teachers – that has already been addressed by my previous speakers – have taken a good look at this change, have taken a good look at this dynamic challenge, and thus sometimes overcome a generally prevailing social disadvantage. What is in this misrepresentation, which is often addressed to teachers – and now actually to small "i"? – It is because they have "only" dealings with small ones, with semi-growths, often for only half a day. This underestimation in society, in which mainly technical and commercial professions, hard science, count, naturally stresses the psyche and leads to everyday life being experienced as particularly difficult. everyday life is difficult – why? And responsible – why? – Because, at the same time, one can see that in recent times the family – and especially the father – has quite withdrawn from the educational situation and thus the teacher has the exciting task of participating in the education of men’s imagery. Working in school on the men's images of fatherless children is not entirely without it, because at present this image training works via "Terminator", "Commissioner Rex" or "Batman". This is a difficult task, and it is easy to help the teachers with sensitivity. Another important question – that is a problem of definition – is: What's good class? – In recent decades, we have been able to answer this question much better and clearer than today, because old self-evidents have disappeared. I therefore very much welcome the fact that, in an offensive, the Federal Minister has devoted himself to the issue of quality assurance and quality development, and will continue to devote himself to it. I look forward to this issue with great attention in 1998. I think that the focus of these considerations is on the role of the school inspector and school supervisor. The current Federal School Supervisory Act regulates the tasks of the school inspector very dynamic, very modern. One hardly believes it to be read about these things, which already has to be taken into account in terms of school climate, cooperation with parents and students, modern teaching methods and so on. The focus is therefore on the school inspector and the possibility of working well with a permanent performance profile and feedback on the further development of the school. I think that if I may mention this as an example, the path that the Vienna school administration has taken with the so-called feedback arches is a bad one. 250 000 feedback notes have been sent. No human is asking who makes the evaluation and what consequences it has. The President of the Council of Town Schools said: Of course, teachers' dismissals are also considered in this context. I wonder, What judgmental competence do parents have that does not attend? What is the assessment competence of students who are educational subjects and objects in one? In one example, I would like to show you the questionability of this method. I think it is a problematic pedagogical step if, for example, it is said in a question of whether the student has learned everything he needs for examination. – Now we have spent years and decades trying to get away from learning for school, for examination and for reporting in school, and then apparently the pedagogical funnel is reintroduced and the teacher is responsible for whether he has "filled" well. I don't think we should take this Vienna path. We are willing to go a modern, dynamic way in the quality offensive. Let me conclude by saying: The reference to American feedback culture does not count either. There are school performance tests in series. There is even another evaluation culture there. The reference to the university is no more valid. In view of this example and many others already quoted today, I think we can confidently go to the year 1998 with the new dynamic budget – with the Minister at the top and with partners ready for cooperation here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16529	I call Mr Rada. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16550	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I had decided not to address any of the previous speakers today, because this is hardly possible in time, but in view of the lamentos of honourable Members Mag. Moser, that during her election season, the children of five different teachers were taught, I cannot comply with this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is not a matter of legislation, it is the case of an unskilled headmaster or administrator. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It has also complained that autonomy is more and more failing, just because there are cola machines and such drinks in schools. She is known to me as a colleague who has not fallen on her mouth, so I am surprised that she allows this to happen in her school. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has been mentioned today that a lot has been moved in the school sector, and I would like to admit that there has actually been a great deal of movement in primary education. I am also very pleased personally that we are facing the completion of the foreign language offensive and that we are finally getting away from the school attempts which have been more than clearly and comprehensively confirmed by these future-oriented projects. However, I would like to take one step further here. We had similar problems in integrating them into secondary education. But this has already happened and done more or less legalally. I hope that the same will happen to the foreign language offensive, and that not if our children leave the national school with a second foreign language, they will have a big nod, but that this offensive will continue in the AHS sub-level and the primary school. In this context, I see a special problem: We have some AHS locations where Latin is a mandatory foreign language. However, those students who come from primary school with English and French must also be given the option of continuing to learn these living foreign languages at these school levels. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Minister today stressed that we are living in a networked global world and that foreign languages are very important for the future of our students. I am convinced that we will also be able to solve this problem if all those who are interested in school matters address this problem of the mandatory foreign language Latin to the AHS, advocated and committed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16608	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16629	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! "I remember that at the beginning of the previous year we had to work out a comprehensive and profound consolidation programme for the federal budget, as several developments had come together in the years before, which dramatically deteriorated the budgetary situation. These were mainly recession-related losses and increases in expenditure in 1992/93, the increase in public employment, additional family and social benefits, etc., as well as significant loss of revenue from the 1994 tax reform. The budget deficit doubled between 1992 and 1995 to 118 billion schilling. If there had been no change in deficit development, the budgetary policy margin would have been completely lost. The debt would have increased even more, and more and more tax revenue would have to be spent on interest payments. Even today, almost every seventh budget schilling has to be spent solely on the interest rates of public debt; Budgetary resources which could be used without any doubt for investment, employment, promotion, training or social assistance." Ladies and gentlemen! What I have read to you now does not come from me, but – you will have recognized it – is an extract from the budget speech of Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance, which he recently held here. And how right he was with his prognosis, with his representation! It is the historical merit – and this must also be said at the end of a budget debate – of the party chairman Dr Wolfgang Schüssel, who pulled the emergency brake in 1995 and pulled the line and dared to re-election in a historic act to reverse the trend in budget development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He succeeded, ladies and gentlemen, and no less than the Social Democratic Minister of Finance confirms this in his budget speech. Dr. Schüssel would probably have received the Maria Theresa Order 200 years ago or would otherwise have entered the story. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You're coming later, let me talk now! [[on the liberals]] Today, this trend enables us to make reforms – necessary reforms – in the education sector as well. Today, the Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer presented a proud track record of her reforms, and she was also shown here by some speakers. I would remind you of the 500 new teaching posts, of the reform of the polytechnic school, of easier access to schools abroad and, above all, of the recognition of the foreign school visit, of the educational and financial partial autonomy, of the foreign language force, of the professional maturity test, of the planned partial right, but also of the efficient and easy gift promotion. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why do you read social-democratic education programs?]] Mr Parnigoni! I am pleased when you have adopted our education strategy, as you have finally come to the view in many other things that the direction the EIA states is better. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It's the other way around!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are not only concerned with promoting the weak – although this is very commendable, Mrs. Federal Minister – but also with promoting the elite. There are a number of models, of educational institutions that take this into account. For the country also needs elites: well-trained, excellent, talented students, who are promoted and are not to come into a single stop. And that is exactly what the Federal Minister wants to achieve with her reforms. We have excellent models in Upper Austria, where this already works. Mrs. Federal Minister! I recommend – but you will, of course, know this better than I do – that you also involve regional school council president Riedl from Upper Austria, who has achieved excellent results in model examples in terms of language promotion, talent promotion and so on. This could also be carried out throughout Austria after an appropriate examination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We can be satisfied with the education policy, with the cultural policy of our Minister for Education, we can be proud of it, and I am convinced that this budget approach, which we will now decide, will continue to provide room for positive development.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16720	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Kiss spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16741	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to dedicate a "footnote" to the esteemed colleague Christa Krammer. In a truly amusing, shot, inimitable way, she has caricaded the sweater Karli, for in the end he has offered a caricature of what the teacher's profession produces in this way. I can only attest to the colleague Christa Krammer: She should not just speak here in Parliament and be a director at her school. - Dear Christa Krammer! Go back to the class, back to the students, there you are lifted up shiny! Let me tell you that as a compliment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call unto the liberals, O my God! Oh, my God!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Aumayr: Schleimi!]] No, but please go! You will be able to tell someone something that is just a matter, Mr President of the FPÖ. In the special case, it was a highlight of the day during this debate on education and culture, and I told her that from Burgenländer to Burgenländerin. Take it off me like that, I meant it as I said! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In my speech yesterday on the Internal Security chapter, I said that there are only two areas in which the Federal Government has set targets, which have also been considered with regard to budget increases, namely the area of internal security, which is good and right so, and the second essential area in which we are investing in the future, the teaching chapter and the science field. Mrs. Federal Minister! You are responsible for these increases, and the praise is of course yours. Finally, I would also like to talk about those considerations – as I believe, rightly – that the trade union negotiators have expressed about you on the Teacher Structure Package. – When I had the result of this teacher structure package in my hand, I also spoke to those who have been the negotiators on the union side and who have been eaten in front of you. They told me how you, as head of this chapter, acted as a political officer. You gave me a 3-k formula, and this 3-K formula did me good. You said there was a minister of education who was competent. – It is usually expected by a minister that he is decorated in his field. They said she's consistent, too. – This is a very personal attribute of Elisabeth Gehrer. But they have also said something that is fair to the teacher's level: You were collegial in the negotiations. So the formula is: competent, consistent, collegial. This 3-C formula of trade unionists meets the Elisabeth Gehrerzu, and I would like to congratulate you on that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also true that this structural package is adopted by the teachers – this is clear when talking to them – for example, the model of early retirement, which can be chosen voluntarily. This regulation is mainly adopted by female teachers – in many conversations I was able to convince myself. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's what we're looking at!]] – Of course, we'll look at that. Where is the FPÖ's alternative? Where has there been a model for you that would offer a corresponding alternative to this voluntary model of early retirement? I didn't see anything. I didn't hear anything. Meckern, that's the foreign exchange. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] The extended opportunity for part-time work and finally the offer of the "Sabbaticals" were also negotiated within the framework of this structural package. Dear ladies and gentlemen! My dear Minister of Education! You've made a lot of moves in your work as a minister. Our request: Move much further in the interest of the education of this country, in the interest of the training of the youth of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16842	No one has made any mention of this. I'll close the debate. The rapporteur did not make a final statement. I would ask you to take the seats, we have two votes. First, we shall vote on the Advisory Group VI of the Federal Proposal for 1998. This includes the chapter 12 of the Federal estimates, together with the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate, in 841 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to this advisory group to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This Advisory Group has been adopted by a majority. A motion for a resolution was tabled during the negotiation of this advisory group. In the sense of § 55 para. I would suggest to you 5 of the Rules of Procedure that we carry out this vote on the motion for a resolution immediately. Does anyone object? - That's not the case. I shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schweitzer and comrades on suspension of the spelling reform. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Advisory Group XII Chapter 40: Military matters (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16915	We shall now proceed to the debate on the Advisory Group XII: Military affairs. There is no need for oral reporting. We can therefore start the debate immediately, and I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer calls something loud towards Abg. Amon.]] – Mr Schweitzer! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The ÖVP is unbelievable!]] Do this in the couloir with colleague Amon! That is what your colleague, Mr Scheibner, is talking about. Mr Scheibner, please start. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16950	Mr. Minister of Defence! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! MEP Kiss seems to have forgotten his speech concept at the Pult, this newspaper. I'll take them after you. [[Abg. Kiss: That's not mine!]] Mr. Minister of Defence! You said, as a comment on this budget in committee, that it could be more, but it is sufficient for your place of business, for the tasks to be given to your place of business. Mr Minister, this is now, I believe, your eighth budget and also my eighth budget, which I am a Member of this House, and your answer to our criticism that the budget will not be sufficient to carry out the necessary tasks of Austrian defence, has always been the same. They say again and again: It could be more, but on and on, it's enough. This is precisely the insolence of the true situation, the concealment of the catastrophic budgetary situation in which our national defence is located, not only do we criticise you, Mr. Federal Minister, but this is also increasingly responsible for the democratization in the area of the Austrian federal army. The soldiers would ask you to admit, if you are unable to enforce yourself within the Federal Government, that the national defence budget is being properly taught, that, under these conditions, the orders and claims we all place on the Austrian defence system cannot be fulfilled. We would expect you not to pray healthfully and impoverishedly here, but also to show us, as responsible Members, the reality clearly in mind. For, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that we are increasingly addressing the supergau security policy. Over the years, important new orders from lack of money have been made. Now that the absolute end of the main weapons systems comes to us, you have no money to make up for the corresponding things. Mr Federal Minister, you are always boasting that you are the longest minister of defence in Europe. However, they are also the minister who for so many years is fully responsible for the situation in which the Austrian defence is currently in place. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, we do not need to quote our own analyses, we only need to quote the analyses of your resort, for example from the Mech concept, Minister of Defence. It speaks of a minimum chance of survival of our tank grenades, and the following assessment is made in this concept of the main vehicle of the tank grenades, about the shooters: "Technical status: At the beginning of the 1960s, tanking will even be struck by gun ammunition, no defence against modern enemy shooters, no protection against combatants." Ladies and gentlemen! That's your own analysis of the state of the mechanized brigades and the question of whether our soldiers, our groundmen, have the chance to survive such a battle at all. I don't want to talk about winning. This responsibility, which you yourself set out in the papers, should also be borne in mind in the debates and in the relevant analyses. The hunting force – you know it as well as we do – is poorly equipped, with outdated helmets, with outdated equipment items. It does not have any armored bikes and would also have, if you were to be sent into operation, which of course we all do not want to hope, hardly any chance of survival. And you could continue this list for a while. The same applies to the tank force, the air defense et cetera et cetera. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! This is no more and no less than the question: Can you be responsible for sending Austrian ground defense officers into service as cannon feed in the serious case? . We would have the task of ensuring that the life and health of the soldiers is best protected by means of proper equipment, by means of proper infrastructure and by means of proper infrastructure, and you would have to make the necessary arrangements in the budget. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But they do the opposite: You will save exactly where we already have these deficits, namely in the area of the force. They save on clothing and equipment – minus 36 million schilling. That's a minus of 15 percent. They save on the ammunition – minus 95 million. That's a 20 percent minus. They save on the maintenance of plants – minus 112 million schilling. And you save on the motor vehicle – minus 107 million schilling. You are saving the vehicle, Mr Federal Minister, even though you yourself have kept in the situation report that soon – you have said: soon! – 1 000 trucks are to be re-created. Federal Minister! When will you be "in the near future" if you have planned a reduction of more than 100 million schilling in the 1998 budget? They have reduced the funds by 25 million schilling in the field of voluntary arms exercises, thus taking military soldiers an important training opportunity. In this context, I would like to concede, Minister of Defence: I have just been informed that, as a result of our question, in which we have referred to this problem of voluntary arms exercises, an adaptation of this decree will take place because we have seen that our criticism was quite right that military sub-official training would be particularly severe. That is why it would be quite reasonable, Mr Maitz, to reject all the criticism that we are expressing here, and to reject it as a polemic, just as you did in the debate on the question, but to consider whether we are not doing so in the best intention for the defence of the country and for our soldiers. Federal Minister! I hope that, as with these voluntary arms exercises, you will also pick up other criticisms from us and come to a better solution in the sense of our national defence. Although they save on the team, there are increases in the personnel sector, an increase of 350 million schilling, despite a recording stop that is devastating to the team. You increase the resources for mission travel, and you increase the funds for your central office, the Ministry of Defence, by 40 million schilling. This does not leave you any room for new procurements, although they are considered necessary and intended in your concepts. For example, the Dragon replacement: Her concept says that 1996 is the guarantee for the Drakes, it would be urgent to make the type decision by next year at the latest. Or: Helicopter post-purchase and new transport systems. All these are things that would also be necessary in the civil field, but there is no funds available for this. Or: the purchase of wheel tanks and combat tanks. Federal Minister! These are things we have already decided. There is a Council of Ministers decision, there is a recommendation from the Council of State Defense to that effect. In addition to Leopard II, the Mech package includes the purchase of wheel tanks and shooters. We now hear that there are not even contractual negotiations in this respect, that there is no quantity frame that there is no description of performance. They have promised that the Treaty will be concluded by the end of this year, but it will not be possible, due to the short period of time, to comply with this timetable. And why is that so? – This is also heard from your department: Because in this budget, there is no even a schilling for the necessary redeployments already decided. Federal Minister! You can't go here and say you'd hope for more, but it's enough. – A budget that does not even allow the necessary re-purchases already decided to be implemented into reality cannot be enough! Federal Minister! You are now making a new adjustment of the army integration without addressing Parliament without addressing the Council of State Defense without addressing your own federal government, and thus once again show that the criteria necessary for the implementation of this military integration have not been met, for example, by means of appropriate budgetary safeguards. Minister! I think it is irresponsible that working troops should be dissolved, that they are planning to enter the blue, once again without asking: In what direction should the Austrian state defense go? Where does the principle of security policy remain, and what budgetary safeguards will these new reforms bring? – This is not responsible, even as regards the prestige and motivation of our soldiers! We would expect you to take the principle decision on the future of Austrian defence as soon as possible, as we believe, and apparently in your opinion, towards accession to NATO and to the Western European Union, and then, as a result of the new order situation, we will also make an appropriate military re-enforcement and also put in place the corresponding budgetary measures. If you involve us all, you will also have us as a partner and receive our support. But if you continue to believe that you can implement such reforms on the back of the soldiers and in the silent chamber, then you will be deceived! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Minister of Defence! I know that this is a medium-term perspective, but in the short term it would be enough and would also save us your new military integration if we did at least the additional tasks that the German army has undertaken in recent years for other departments in the national defence budget, such as the assistance missions in the Burgenland, such as the increased foreign operations and the assistance to the EU Presidency of Austria. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be enough to organise, at least in the short term, the survival of a semi-secured state defense.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e17032	The motion for a resolution just read has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiation. The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e17056	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on some of the current issues of national defence from the position of the Democrat of the People's Party. I would like to say that the chapter on military affairs would rather be called "Capital External Security", because it is a matter of far more than the military. It is about protection and assistance at home and abroad, and it is about peace work in the best sense of the word. The Austrian population appreciates our army. I only remember the passing of the ring in 1995. More than 200 000 Austrians were there at the time, and over a million followed this parade in front of the TV screen. I remember the performance show of the 26th century. October of this year, which has been shown in all the federal states, where some 500 000 Austrians have recently come into contact with the German army. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians rightly have confidence in this Federal Minister Dr. Werner Fassleven. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He deals with his tasks with a great deal of responsibility, you can read it out of any of his decisions. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] On the budget figures in the chapter External security: There are 21.4 billion schilling available in 1998, 0.83 percent of gross domestic product or 2.9% of the total budget. [[Abg. May. Peter: Would you like to sell this to us as a success?- Oh, my God!]] In this field of tension – wait for a biterl, then you have the answer immediately! – between contributing to the consolidation of the state budget and carrying out tasks of the Austrian federal army, we can find the means, and despite this difficulty, we can provide 400 million Schilling more for investment in 1998. [[Abg. Wabl: Where is the enemy?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Now you have become almost lyrical!]] The new military division and its adaptation in 1997, which Mr Scheibner has already referred to here today, have resulted for two reasons from the security situation on the one hand and from the outcome of the 1997 situation report on the other, and has enabled the mobilising framework to be reduced from 150 000 to 110 000 men. The personnel reduction at the overheads – well noticed, colleague Scheibner, at the overheads! – in the ministry, in the offices, through the merger and through the reduction in the schools of the army and in the commanders is a clear requirement, which, of course, cannot be achieved from today to tomorrow, but it adapts to the overall situation. The aim of this adaptation is more quality and less quantity with the help of the available resources – that is money, these are basic defenses and cadres –, more quality both in equipment, accommodation and training as well as in staff. The framework provides a clear indication of this direction and is the start, the start of a technical and political discussion. It is also important for all human reductions to be achieved exclusively through natural processes and for all comrades serving in a unit that may no longer be needed in this form to be used in a qualitatively equivalent manner. In all structural measures – and there is, of course, a lot of discussion going on in the countries and districts – three aspects have to be considered: first, the military necessity, and that is probably the most important, second, the security feeling of fellow citizens and third, the regional political consequences. But I am sure that these aspects are well taken up by a calm, consistent and responsible Minister, Fassleven. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the Women Voluntary to the Federal Army, recently sent women's training relationship law. We have thus pursued two objectives: to open the field of sub-officials and officers to women, and – I say so boldly and unconnectedly – to make a positive contribution to the greater acceptance of the military profession in the population. What do I mean? – I am convinced that women who serve as soldiers in the service of peace and freedom and serve this service have the reputation for this work in society. That's what I'm grateful for today. However, women should also be able to take on a military career. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I believe that we will have a lot of arguments to make in this regard in the parliamentary negotiations. I believe that we should, of course, offer and make possible the voluntary military career. [[Abg. Scheibner: Let's do it! That's where you have our consent!]] Now on the most important question, the security policy of the future. What is the greatest possible security for the Austrian population in the future? – We have already talked about it today. My firm conviction is that there are only two real alternatives: Pure neutrality according to Swiss patterns or NATO-Neu in the form that it now represents as a political security community with enforcement, as a Euroatlantic partnership with rights and obligations. The neutrality of pure Swiss patterns without a genuine guarantee of assistance, as we had from 1955 to 1989, would require necessary increases in the military budget, as at least we would have to approach the scale of Switzerland. If we remain neutral and no longer have any support to expect, then we have to double the defence budget; on the other hand, if we guarantee security for Austria with the NATO-Neu security community and make our contribution to peace in the world, we will find the result with the 1 percent of the gross domestic product at the time. We want to make this fundamental decision expressly and not just for legal and factual reasons, together with the larger coalition party, so that there is no mistake. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Thanks for the invitation to cooperation!]] Of course, everyone who pursues this goal is welcome, that is no question at all, Mr Brigadier Moser! If, as is said again, three countries will be pushed to NATO in the next few days, which are our neighbours, then we will anyway be largely surrounded by NATO countries. To this end, I would like to say: We from the People's Party do not want Austria to become a "island of the Blessed", because each of us today knows that any – for example, state-terrorist – organization can be extortioned by means of aircraft from the air. [[Abg. Wabl: Horror! A new threat picture!]] [[Abg. Young: Let's do it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The People's Party is therefore in favour of negotiations with NATO with the aim of joining as a full member. In the age of networking, a splendid isolation for Austria is a gross nonsense, because opportunities and risks are networked worldwide, and security is also a question to be solved worldwide. In the event of such a negotiation with NATO, we as at the time with the European Union: Together is better than lonely! [[Abg. Wabl: This can be reasonable for partners, for spouses!]] And we have a lot to offer. We also have a lot to negotiate. What we want to achieve is as much peacekeeping as possible and as much military enforcement as necessary. That's Werner Fassleven, and that's what the People's Party stands for!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e17219	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e17254	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I address the real issue, namely the 1998 budget for the Austrian Federal Army, some comments on my previous speaker and also on the current political discussion on the topic of national defence and on the topic of future Austrian security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maitz, it is really embarrassing if you have so much praise from this speaker's desk to the Minister for Defence. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The pure truth, Major!]] This afternoon, with the praise of the Minister, you were a little more modest than you said that the Federal Minister was a guarantee of effective national defence, a guarantee of a meaningful future Austrian security policy. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] I believe that you did not really mean that, because I mean, if Mr. Federal Minister Fassl evening continues as it is at present, then he is the guarantee of the collapse of the military state defense, then Minister Fassleven is the best ally of the Greens for the abolition of the federal army, for one, ladies and gentlemen, is obvious: [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Then he needs the Moser as an advisor!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Then we make him an honorary member of the Civil Service Association!]] We already have a dramatic decline in the Federal Government's willingness to work. This is a fact, and this must be clearly stated here. Ladies and gentlemen! On the question of NATO accession and on the question of our future security policy. Mr Maitz – now he has taken the flight – I think it really is a very shortened one... [[Abg. Böhacker: He's not on the run, here he is!]] Ah, there you are. Are you looking for a new ally? Mr Maitz. It's really something too short... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Moser is too unreliable!]] It is a rather simple presentation if, in the discussion about the future Austrian security policy, you really only limit the options that are present for our country to the two options either NATO-neutral or neutral. Mr Maitz, that is too little, that is too simple. It's just black and white painting. There is therefore no sensible and good security policy for our country. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing must also be clear to us: The way to NATO is certainly an essential option. This will also be the future for Austrian security policy. Only the way to NATO can take place in different intermediate stages, different intermediate steps, according to the political possibilities. And there are a number of political possibilities which we must also assess in the course of the discussion of the option report, which is politically feasible, which is politically feasible. I therefore believe that we must take into account further options. An option that is very important to me is the question of the development of a European security and defence identity – wait a moment, Mr Scheibner – within the framework of the European Union. [[Abg. Scheibner: You've always said that's a fool!]] This is where we are called on to take accents and steps in the context of our talks and discussions in Brussels, within the framework of the Joint Committee. Foreign and security policy so that Europe can speak with one voice within the framework of a transatlantic partnership. [[Abg. Young: He's already talking like the freshman!]] This is a favourable solution in the sense of a European defence identity. [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you speaking for a NATO entry or against it?]] This option must not be ignored, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Greens today protested against the already very modest defence budget as part of an action in Vienna, and Mrs. Kammerlander and Mr. Wabl disqualified themselves in a press release. I would like to turn very firmly to two essential statements contained in them. On the one hand, it was presented as if Austria wanted to jump on a armament-like and chromblitating NATO train as quickly as possible. – Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! If you want to be taken seriously in the context of the security policy debate on future Austrian security policy, if you want to discuss seriously here, I may ask you to inform yourself about the security developments in Europe in recent years, about the disarmament steps that have been taken in recent years by NATO and also by the Warsaw Pact, which is now no longer in place. Then Wouldn't I? You do not make such statements, Mr Wabl! On your information, Mr Wabl, a few figures so that they can also be read in the minutes. Total NATO defence expenditure in Europe amounted to 186 billion US dollars in 1990. In 1995 it was 158 billion US dollars. In other words, in the last five years, defense expenditure has actually fallen by $30 billion. This, ladies and gentlemen, was the peace dividend that could be brought into the Eastern European countries due to political development. In the European NATO countries, the share of defence expenditure on gross domestic product has fallen from 3.3 percent to 2.3 percent since 1990. 1 percent of the gross domestic product was made available as a peace dividend for other tasks. And that's where you're talking about a gun-throat and chromblitating train! Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, please inform yourself! To the following statement I also answer the Greens as an officer. Here's what it says: Give the generals sand castles and toy tanks. – Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! We don't need sand castles and toy tanks. What we demand officers from politics – in our co-responsible for effective national defence, in our responsibility for the youth entrusted to us – are optimal conditions, optimal framework conditions for order performance. This includes modern equipment and modern equipment. I would like to expressly say that here. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Now to the defense budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner has already put it to the point: This defense budget is a very modest one. Although we really have an increase, in reality the share of gross domestic product is falling. This shows to me once again that the Minister of State has not really been able to enforce the interests of the federal army in the Federal Government. That is why, Minister of State, this budget cannot be successful for you. The praise expressed by Mr Maitz is really not justified. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] For me, it is remarkable that you, as the responsible minister in the committee, find that what you have negotiated here is sufficient. I can really ask you to ask the generals present here once. As far as I am aware, they do not agree with the teaching of the national defence. It is not possible, within the framework of the funds provided, to make the necessary procurements accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The Art of the Possible!]] I'll come back to that. Ladies and gentlemen! With this budget, the Federal Minister has issued a declaration of bankruptcy. This is once again a sign of the final failure of the 1992 military division. Federal Minister! They have not really achieved the armaments policy objectives set in 1992. I would remind you in this connection of the Mech package. A Mech package has been decided, and you have created foreign weapons systems, but you have not yet obtained the domestic weapon system. There are no contractual negotiations to date. I would like to thank you so that you can read in the Minutes and read to everyone how seriously you are taking decisions from your Federal Government, how seriously you are taking the recommendations of the Council of State Defense, reading a letter and giving it to the minutes, as the implementation of the Mech package actually says. I have a letter here from the Director-General of Steyr: I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have still not received any invitation to tender from the Federal Ministry of Defence. Accordingly, we are not in a position to begin extensive work on supply preparation; Contract negotiations can of course only be initiated after the offer has been made. At the same time, I hear that - and you have always told us this in the Committee's deliberations - "that the Federal Minister continues to say that it is still necessary to reach at least one conclusion for the ASCOD/ULAN this year. Since the specific date for this idea is more and more contradicting, today I asked him again for the invitation to make an offer after my letter to that effect dated 22. ==References====External links== According to the information provided by Section IV, the Federal Ministry of State Defense (Federal Ministry of Defence) – the responsible general is here – "the financing of the Austrian tank projects is still open, contrary to the two foreign tank procurements. This is clearly important to the fact that the implementation of the Austrian part of the ‘Mech package’ was still not possible." [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: An excellent salesman!]] Federal Minister! [[Abg. Apple beck: Lauter!]] I'm talking loud enough! – Now the microphone is louder, so you might hear me better. [[Abg. Leikam: Now the time is over!]] But perhaps it was intention that I should not be heard. Federal Minister! With the fact that you have promised us in the Council of State Defence that the implementation of this package will take place this year, with the fact that you have given us your word that the treaty negotiations will be concluded by the end of this year, you have committed a breach of confidence to me, to Parliament and to the members of the Council of Defence. I would like to have said this with all the clarity. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Minister! Then you must not be surprised that our confidence in your office begins to disappear. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wabl.]] Federal Minister! Look at the structure of the budget. We already have 63 percent of the personnel costs, only 37 percent are spent on the investment sector and the operation of the federal army. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Our trust in the officer Moser has long fallen!]] Because of the fact that a maximum of 15 percent is available for investment at present, it is not possible to achieve the targets set for modernising the German army accordingly. And the political responsibility for that is yours! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation of the German army having suffered a massive loss of commitment also, of course, leads to frustration and uncertainty within the army, and to where the Minister of State has initiated a so-called adaptation of the reform of the army. This adaptation, Mr Federal Minister, is, as you have begun and as you are trying to implement it and realize it, politically a prelude – a prelude to it because, contrary to your claims, there has been no prior vote with the speakers, and also because you have exceeded your competences politically. I would like to make this clear. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Wabl.]] Why have you exceeded your skills? Federal Minister! The organisation of a re-integration, the organisation of the implementation of a new army division requires a prior decision by the Federal Government, with a recommendation from the Council of State Defense. [[Calls:Final rate]] And you have also informed us about this in the Committee – and this is clear from the release of the army. It is here, and this is also to be stated in the Minutes: "The Federal Minister, after examining variants for the adaptation of the Lordly Division-New, announced the decision for two corps commanders, three hunter brigades, two mechanized brigades, territorial troops in the Commander's meeting on 17.10.1997 and ordered the launch of the implementation. This is the start of the concrete military planning process." It also says: "... consider the implementation of the decision of the Federal Minister." Federal Minister! They have clearly disregarded the legal procedures and regulations. This is another breach of confidence in Parliament and policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is as typical as the Minister of Defence holds with Parliament. Second I have enough time! [[Abg. Cap: Time!]] We still have 28 minutes, Mr Cap, enough time to discuss in detail the defence policy of Mr Fassleven. Federal Minister! The adaptation of the army reform that you have launched is also highly questionable. I very politely formulate it. I do not want to comment on these ideas here and today, because I assume that you will invite us at some point to the political talks you have at least announced, or that we may at some point continue to discuss in the committee or in the defence council, although I hear that you do not have time for the Council of Defence to meet in the foreseeable future. In terms of content, adaptation is at least questionable. For you, Mr. Federal Minister, go back from the size of the armed forces to a federal army that is weaker than the Federal Army of 1956, but you leave the entire leadership structure as it had the German army at the time of the defence of space. That means, once again you only reduce at the troop, the structures leave you. They're building a Potemkin's village. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You're pleading for the release of officers!]] Mr President, this is also the evaluation of an officer. The Federal Minister has selected from many proposals by the officers, the responsible planning officers. That was the decision of the Federal Minister. And I know that there have been many, many variants, better variants than those chosen by the Federal Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of the destruction of the mechanized troops, the question that there is no political framework, the question that there is no financial plan – all these questions condemn the military reform which the Federal Minister wants to start, already to fail before this reform has even begun. And I do not want to go any further than the critical internal remarks in the crisis meetings that took place in the various capitals of the country – starting from the Landle to St. Pölten – here. This shows, Mr Minister, that you have really put in place a wrong measure without prior concrete political vote and that it is high time that you considered how you will deal with it in the future and how you see your personal future, how you want a solution useful for military defence in necessary talks. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to make one point because I believe that it is very important also in the context of Parliament's self-understanding, namely the question of the German army's assistance. For eight years, the German army has been working as an assistant on the Burgenland-Hungarian border. Of course, if the civil authorities are unable to do so, the German army must be able to provide assistance. Ladies and gentlemen! However, assistance means short-term assistance to the civil authority until it is able to fulfil its constitutional tasks. And it is constitutionally the task of the Ministry of the Interior to monitor our border. It is not a task of the Federal Government to carry out security police activities! And if the German army carries out security police duties for eight years and is to be another ten years in this security mission, this means a sluggish change of the defence-law tasks, the defence-law-based foundations of the German army. On the other hand, I would like to make a very firm statement. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Something else in this context. They know that the Federal Government is thereby taking on certain tasks for the Ministry of the Interior. The annual additional costs, according to your information in the Committee, amount to 400 million schillings. This means that in the past the German army has spent on the 3.2 billion schilling. And if If you keep the federal army in service for another ten years, then there will be another 4 billion schilling. That is why it is legitimate, Mr Leikam, that the Federal Government – let me speak out! – is it considering granting a financial guarantee for those tasks which the Federal Army has to carry out and fulfil beyond the normal task of peace? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the Freemans.]] Federal Minister! My final sentence: Because of one, as I believe, missing and inadequate defence policy on your part and also the fact that you refer to a budget as sufficient, of which you yourself know that you will not be able to fulfil the specified tasks of the army, we will not give this budget our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e17569	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. Mr deputies, would you like a voluntary limit on speaking time? - 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e17590	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out by my previous speaker that the 1998 budget is a reasonable budget, i.e. a budget which is a priority for the idea of saving. This will enable both necessary modernisation measures and improvements in equipment to be made in the right way. That is why I do not think that it is a goal at all if, in this situation, budget increases or special financings et cetera are called for, but at the same time no one offers solutions where the financial resources are to come from. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Without a concrete proposal, Mr Herbert Scheibner, I think there is really no need for any discussion. [[Abg. Scheibner: We have submitted an application that is quite concrete!]] In order to give the truth the honor, I would like to say that I have to give right to you, to colleagues Moser and also to the coalition partner, which I am not very pleased with, but if you want to stick to the truth, that must be said: It is also thanks to the expertise of the Federal Minister for Negotiations that the budget proposal we are deciding on today has a slight increase. An amount of at least half a billion is a very positive signal for the importance of national defence in times of saving, as I believe. For me, in this context, the central question is whether this budget estimate is in line with the announced re-dimensional measures or with the so-called re-adaptation of military integration. Federal Minister! If that is the case, this would be a presumption of the decision which the Federal Government would have to take in the form of a Council of Ministers decision following a previous positive recommendation by the Council of State Defense. If that is not the case, then I believe, Minister of State, that your order for the implementation of this change of organization is based on the 17th century. October was a speedy step from you who will not find our consent! [[We welcome the SPÖ, the Greens and the Liberals.]] On the basis of the information The measures announced to you – since they were a confidential secret decision, he was only accessible to the newspaper editors – we still have to consult very much and very detailed and have discussions in detail. I mean, I'm right, where you say in the meantime that this is a planning process that has been initiated internally. Federal Minister! I have the reasonable suspicion that with this faulty and conflicting concept you simply want to distract from the real and true structural problems of the federal army! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: My God, Toni, that must not be true!]] Dear friend Dr. Maitz! That is why our criticism is mainly directed against the lack of structural reform, which you have not said a single word here today. Federal Minister! I have to tell you – I can't save you this, but there is no personal sensitivity in the foreground – that your procedure is simply not acceptable and acceptable. You see for yourself what you have done with this single entry, especially if you are looking at the internal discussion and situation in the Federal Army. This is also confirmed by all speakers who receive a variety of letters every day, with which they are asked in the form of calls for help, yet try to stop the implementation of this re-adaptation that you have ordered. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Minister laughs!]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: He's the Sunnyboy!]] I believe that if you really want to talk about a credible and efficient national defence, you have to laugh because the situation is very serious. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think you've been wrong. The Federal Minister has certainly not smiled in this regard! I think it is more likely that he will secretly give us justice afterwards. Federal Minister! I couldn't deal with the facts and facts, I couldn't take an insight into your conceptual documents because they were not available to me. I only know what some of your gentlemen have informed us about in retrospect with your knowledge. And I do not want to say that in this concept steps can be seen in the right direction. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] I very much appreciate this military planning work, but these organisational changes for my terms do not eliminate the structural problems of the German army. Federal Minister! In addition, you are constantly talking about the fact that these changes in organisation are based on the modern NATO structures, because NATO is the model for an efficient military organization worldwide. On this point I also give you the right. However, I am aware that your concept has not at all taken account of this international standard. I would like to give you an example: As you know, according to NATO standard, ten brigades are still manageable by a military command. We in Austria are cheaper: We need two corps commanders for five brigades. – But that's not enough: Now, the already small Austrian Mech-Trupe two different commanders! This will literally preprogramme additional costs in leadership and logistics. The conversion of the Mech troupe from three to two brigades and the creation of a command for international operations should be very positive. This has always been called upon by us, and you are now modestly taking this into account. However, Mr Federal Minister – and I have repeated this over and over again – is about a comprehensive reform approach that goes far beyond the purely organisational change you intend to make. However, the so-called adaptation, ordered by you here, is far from this necessary overall structural reform of the German army! Federal Minister! I think we have everything to do with the fact that there is a re-transposition of the planning stations to the force. The central issue of the financial saving potential remains completely open. They know that we need more savings in human resources than ever before in order to expand the scope for investment and to make the necessary procurement. In the end, this is one of the main objectives of the structural reform, but it is not currently in any way as ever. A structural reform cannot be recognized in this area, not to mention the lack of structural measures in the territorial area, and not to mention the dual liquefactions that exist in relation to military commanders and corps. Federal Minister! I would like to repeat what I said at the last budget: We are ready for co-responsibility, cooperation and co-decision. I therefore believe that the measures in question must be implemented at the widest possible level, involving a very cooperative and constructive opposition. Let us work together to ensure that we finally get a credible and efficient defence of the country so that we can make the contribution to the security of Austria that the population expects from us. Federal Minister! We're ready to take an active part! It's up to you to take this outstretched hand!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e17700	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr deputies, you still have a term of 18 minutes at your disposal and do not want a voluntary time limit. [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: Shame!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e17729	Very attentive, Mr President. – Mr Federal Minister and Mr Nog-Bundesminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurmitzer, if you had followed the speech carefully and not in the interesting programme of the ÖVP – in the EDP's Still Programme! - if you had looked at it, you might have noticed that the majority in this House believe that the Federal Minister's action is extremely worrying. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Yes, the majority of this house! You have not been able to observe that, but these were the Social Democratic Party, the Liberals, the Greens and also the FPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's also wrong!]] Mr Maitz! You can then read that in the minutes! Federal Minister! We have today on the deadline request for a request for distrust for... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Mr Kukacka! Mr Wurmitzer! I know you're a little nervous about this. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: No, really not!]] If the Freedom Party says that Mr Fassleven is the best man of the Greens, that does not mean that he is the best man of the Greens in the government, but that I think he does everything he can to discredit the German army in Austria. For the Austrian population has always trusted that the Constitution... [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You want to abolish the Federal Army and play in the Sandhauferl!]] Oh, my God! Mr Maitz has become a little nervous when he saw a pile of sand! This remark has not affected you, but the generals! But you can get there, that's certainly not a problem! The heap was big enough! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: It's so childish that it's really bad!]] You have little left for symbolism! You'd rather wear the symbols at the chest! This is much more pleasant to you than any metaphor! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Fassleven! You have the problem that in Austria there is obviously no consensus either in this Parliament. It's no secret how critical the Greens are to the federal army. It is also no secret that the liberals, the liberals and also the ÖVP are pushing into NATO. Federal Minister! However, their approach does not remain within the scope of freedom of expression in Austria. It was said today, as I believe, by Mr Maitz, that we cannot abolish freedom of expression here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Mr Maitz! There is a slight difference: Minister Fassleven sits on the government bank and is a representative of the executive. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: And that's why he's supposed to get a muzzle?]] I know you're not scared! It is only a problem when it comes to promoting publicity when it comes to your political opponents. Then you say: They cave out of the Constitution and don't comply with the laws! Then you are strict, then there is no money and all kinds of squatting against these groups of persons. But when it comes to your own minister, you say: What, the Minister does not take the Constitution into account? After such a tragic thing! – He is already talking about an autonomous advance. But you don't have to do that anymore! Because the neutrality, as I recently heard from the former Federal Minister for Defence Lichal, was self-confidence. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Political freedom of expression: Thank God we have them!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Lichal goes to meetings and proclaims Frankly and freely that the neutrality was self-deception and that the Austrian population was a mere failure to do so together with the government. Obviously, the government had been preoccupied with the population. That was self-confidence. – This says a former Federal Minister in the events in which he openly advertises for accession to NATO! But that's his right now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Mr Maitz! They overlook something: It is not a debate contribution by the Minister of State, if he is acting in his official capacity as Minister of State Defense in the Czech Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: I understand that a minister is good for you only if he is out of service!]] A performance of the Federal Minister of State Defense at a NATO event does not involve a personal opinion at a private event! The difference is: On the one hand, the representatives of the people who have to articulate their political opinion here and represent the people sit on the government bank, but there is the executive who has to carry out what is decided here in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Of course, she also has political freedom of expression! Where else are we going?]] Mr Maitz! It is not a question of freedom of expression when the Federal Minister for Defence says in reply to the question: We do everything in the autonomous pre-conception as if we were at NATO. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Very responsible!]] You have to look at this: The Federal Minister, which was particularly significant, said that this was done "not to have to make short-term changes in the event of accession with even greater costs". It is impressive that he is talking about "yet greater costs". The original quote mentions "more costs". [[Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven: I will give you the original quote!]] Thank you, I got it here! But I'm glad you have it too! You are very well prepared for today's session! "Yet bigger" says that you have already announced that there will be very high costs in the case of NATO accession. And there would be even greater costs, you would not now act in a wise way and using freedom of expression. – I haven’t experienced such a thing at all! Mr Maitz. This kind of interpretation on this question I really think is incredible! It can only come to your mind! But you obviously have a strange legal understanding. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Yes, Mr. Jurist Wabl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaál mentioned that a structural reform is missing, that this procedure cannot be accepted – and he is the voice of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: We will discuss this!]] Of course we will discuss this! We'll discuss with the Minister whether he's doing the right thing! We are discussing with the Minister whether neutrality is already obsolete! We discuss with the Minister whether neutrality was a self-deception! We are discussing with the Minister whether the Constitution is at all our constitution or whether it is already obsolete! We are discussing with the Minister whether neutrality can be disposed of for a long time! Mr Maitz! All of this is correct! You can do this at any event. It is your duty, of course, to make known what you mean politically! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is democracy! Thank God it is not the fundamentalist greens who determine this!]] I believe that what the Minister is doing is a smooth break in the Constitution! But that has already been done by his colleague Lichal. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Lichal had a similar legal understanding. When he was sitting on the government bank, he once said that he was allowed everything that was not prohibited. [[Abg. Guggenberger: That's what Haider said recently!]] I know there are several who claim that! Fortunately, Mr. Haider is not on the government bench. I hope that will never be the case! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Guggenberger: Hopefully!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That was the most important sentence you said today!]] Good! I can now come to the more unimportant points, namely Mr Cap's comments on NATO. Ladies and gentlemen! That was really very interesting! Thankfully, I received a paper from Mr Maitz today. Although I have prepared well for the statements of Minister Fassleven, I have not yet prepared for Mr Cap's statements. Cap is a glowing defender of NATO accession. It is therefore a bit slipped into the third row among the agendas in connection with the German army and NATO. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Yes, here in Parliament, the ranks look different! Mr Cap dreams of a NATO where no foreign troops are stationed in Austria! [[Abg. Gaál: He is a very reality-related man!]] This is a very remarkable proposal: We are at NATO, but foreign troops must not be stationed here! . However, he does not take note of the fact that Minister Fassleven, in exercising his right to freedom of opinion, is already holding troop exercises with radioactive material in Allentsteig, because it may come to the stationing of nuclear weapons, which Mr Cap does not wish. [[Abg. Gaál: This is certainly not the case!]] He doesn't want that! [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Wabl! You didn't understand! That's a sense training!]] And he doesn't want to bets outside Europe either: If the United States has a case of assistance, the Austrians may not be there! Because we're at NATO, but when it comes to you, the US isn't a NATO member. And if, for example, Turkey is at war with Iraq because of the military station in Iraq, then we will not march there either, because we are NATO member in the Capsian sense and in the Fassl evening sense. We're not going to interfere there! Although we want to be at NATO, we want to climb the chromblithing train from behind, we want to jump on the moving train, Mr Maitz wants to sit on the train and eat sausages and rejoice that he is safe and safe to travel around the earth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] However, you do not want to be there in case of intervention! That's something completely different. You don't want to tell people that either, because they'd be scared if a NATO member were, as it were, in a real war against their own people and against a neighboring country. Ladies and gentlemen! It is always said that NATO is the great peace organization. In fact, it is true that individual NATO members are obviously waging war at this moment and another NATO country is already baffling with the saber and saying that a military blow is already being prepared to secure peace. Luckily there is in the Security Council... [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: This has nothing to do with NATO! That's a sovereign decision!]] Mr Moser! I'm excited to see if all of this is in line with the future commander-in-chief of the Federal Army. Because if all of this is in agreement with your boss, I can't go to Mrs Heide Schmidt's personal committee! I'll tell you now! Ladies and gentlemen! In the exercise of the free expression of opinion, our second commander of the federal army sends our soldiers to the United States to exercise peacekeeping measures. Ladies and gentlemen! These civil war-like exercises and maneuvers become – what does the exact wording mean so I don't make a mistake here? – referred to as pure educational trips. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Education travels!]] This is how he describes training of street struggle and civil war use in the exercise of freedom of expression. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] In the exercise of freedom of expression, he has already brought a government document to this House, which states that if we want to cancel a contract, we must report in the United States. This is to be read in the recent free expression of our Federal Minister Fassleven. To this expression of opinion, he feels he/she needs to be in a Republic that is free and in which every citizen is the same. He sits on the government bank by chance and happens to adhere to a constitution. But this is not so important to him, Mr Maitz, because freedom of expression is far more important! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is that not antiquiet anti-Americanism?]] No, Mr Cap! You can't blame me for anti-Americanism! I love America. It is one of the few countries I very much like to visit. A brother of mine has even become an American citizen – I congratulated him on it – and now, fortunately, he has a double citizenship. – Anti-Americanism is something else! This has been very strong in the SPÖ and in the peace movement for a certain reason. It is something else, however, if we say that we have something against the fact that America is exclusively determined by our security and peace policy. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No one wants that!]] That's not what anyone wants? – I know you spoke a serious word to Bill Clinton, and Fassleven, when he was together with Madeleine Albright the other day, was very violent and said: Dear woman, it is not possible that you alone decide where war and peace are being played! We would like to be able to say whether we are dealing with his/her, and then we will intervene with our troops. But that's not how we let it go! – And I have the Maitz guarantee statement that this is only free expression! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Mr Cap! We have enough of the free expression of Mr Fassleven. This may be possible in Carinthia, in the Haider country or in the Wurmitzer country, but in this house... [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: No failures against Carinthia!]] Mr Maitz! The Haider-Land and the Wurmitzer-Land is a beautiful tourist country, but the political conditions there are very worrying, there could also be Fassleven giant!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e18142	Mr Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e18164	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 1998 Federal estimates for military matters are undoubtedly to be seen within the framework of the entire savings and consolidation budget. I believe that the Austrian Government is taking a successful course with this budget, because it is intended to reduce the level of debt the Republic has incurred, on the one hand, and on the other hand to a degree that it has not made a hard cut in the country's economic situation. All economic data show that the step has been taken in such a way as to further increase economic growth, thus ensuring further prosperity for our Republic. The approach to military matters is, of course, to be seen within the framework of this comprehensive consolidation budget. [[Abg. Scheibner: You say that every time!]] With the increases that make up 536 million schilling for the next year, we will achieve a total order of 22 billion schilling by calculating the construction budget. I assume that there is no doubt that this will only make significant further steps towards modernisation, but in a very consistent way. In the last four budgets, the chapter "Military Affairs" recorded a small share increase in the Federal Budget. With these increases we can essentially keep the level and have the prerequisite for continuing the course in small steps. On this basis, the year 1998 will be another year of innovation with the aim of significantly increasing the interoperability and capacity of the federal army. It will be a year of innovation because it is the year of the implementation of the so-called Mech package, with which there will be a substantial strengthening of the fighting power of the Austrian federal army. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What is to be implemented if it does not exist?]] Mr Scheibner! I understand your unrest! However, I would like to point out to you that next year we will be introducing the world's strongest fighter tank, LEOPARD, and a new JAGUAR rocket tank in the Austrian army, and that we will also take further steps regarding the wheel tank, of which we already have 68 pieces. [[Abg. Wabl: For civil war operations or for the street fight?]] Of course, the budget has also provided for the procurement of the ULAN, as you yourself have already asked in the Committee, accordingly. Of course, there are also a number of other projects that are coming for the future. I would therefore also like to mention some very important priorities: The focus of the new investment is on the purchase of equipment, in particular for improving the rocket sector, not only the purchase of Hot 2 and Hot 3, but also the purchase of further terrestrial missiles. [[Abg. May. Main: But very hesitant!]] Of course, further improvement of artillery is also to be achieved, which will significantly strengthen the struggle power of the Austrian federal army. The second major fraction already contains an indication that management and communication systems in particular will be in the foreground. This is a priority that will be a priority not only in Europe as a whole, but worldwide. These are observations and measures, telecommunications and radar devices. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Because you mentioned it: It is only a modest amount, but it is also planned for next year to re-purchase motor vehicles worth 387 million schilling. [[Abg. Young: Where are the 1,000 trucks you have called for yourself?]] That is, admittedly, not a sufficient amount to cover everything we need, but an amount you should not simply wipe from the table! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, 1998 is also a year of innovation in many other areas. It has already been pointed out that it will be the first year in which women's military service can also be run, by being able to perform a training service on a voluntary basis and thus having the possibility of a career in the Austrian federal army. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, there will also be further comprehensive rationalisation measures and improvement measures in the area of the federal army this year. The administration is being reduced, and even more capacity will be transferred into the parts of the troops, in the sense that I think the minimum differences which have been shown to the SPÖ can be overcome in a relatively short period of time, if one considers it quite sober. The spokesperson of our government partner himself has announced that, according to the SPÖ concept, the essential features of the reorganisation of the army should be the reduction in the corps and a restructuring in the hunting force that there should be two mechanized brigades and a foreign command. And if I compare this, I can only see a small deviation in the corp area and in the area of the hunting forces, so that I believe that if you really have constructive discussions, you can also come very quickly and very targetingly to constructive solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In 1998, however, it will also be the first year in which, within the framework of the military academy, listeners – i.e. officers’ candidates – will be trained in a way that recognises their studies as a high-school course and thus fulfils a further educational requirement, which will undoubtedly further increase the value, quality and level of education. [[Abg. Wabl: Within the framework of freedom of expression?]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: For women, too?]] This is done on a basis on which the sub-official training has already been greatly improved and on which we have made the conversion from a military sub-official school to an army sub-official academy, which enabled us to significantly improve the entire leadership area from the overall quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 1998 will also be a year of security policy change, because the Federal Government has undertaken to issue an option report of further security options by the end of the first quarter at the latest. [[Abg. Wabl: Volksammung!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Volksammung!]] I am absolutely convinced that this report will be drawn up in a very constructive way and will therefore also make a decisive contribution to the future of Europe's security policy and thus also Central Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Make a referendum!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How important this step is, you may be able to see that Hungary will already have a referendum on NATO accession in three days and will thus make it very clear that the government and Parliament have already clearly expressed their support for a very clear NATO accession. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander:... proves a referendum!]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Look! There's democracy at home!]] [[Further call to the Greens:Genau! A referendum!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (looking towards greens) There they are just too excited!]] I hope that this Federal Government and this Parliament will, in a short time, also express themselves in a fairly clear and clear way. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander:... also makes a referendum!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: A referendum!]] [[Call to the Greens: Submit a request for referendum!]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a question of whether in the future European security policy will work together, whether it will succeed in combating crises preventively – in the form that they will not even get started – and that, if a crisis arises, decisions will be taken and implemented on a common basis, and not after the recognition of individual opinion, so that such crises can be fought quickly and decisively. That must be our goal. I think that the lessons of recent years are a very clear example of the need for such a measure. I also ask for your support. [[Abg. Wabl: Too late!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The 1998 budget will contribute to the further modernisation of the German army, in a situation where this modernisation is also necessary, because only another shift in technology can ensure the security of our country accordingly. [[Abg. Scheibner: But it will not be possible to pay what you are buying!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No more than a deposit, Minister!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore like to thank you for the very different support that you have shown, but I would like to make clear to you, that is, the principle that you want military defence to continue in the future, and recommend the adoption of this proposal to them. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: But no one can convince!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e18547	Mr Sauer is now speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e18596	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Even if the Green Group wants to make our federal army down and make bad again and again, I would like to explain to you that the Austrian Federal Army enjoys high reputation not only domestically but also abroad. [[Abg. Wabl: No, we're not going down the federal army! That's wrong!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: That's a premise!]] – But, Mr Wabl, you do not believe that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The proof that this is true, as I have said, is that our federal army is always at the forefront not only in the military, but also in aid operations and is helping our people. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] This is precisely what the flood disaster showed in this year, when the Austrian army was involved in a lot of auxiliary operations, especially in the area of Lilienfeld, where our soldiers, officers and officers have done a lot. [[Abg. Kröll: ( towards Greens) But if you need help, then you are glad about it!]] Thank you for that too! [[General condolences.]] But not only domestically, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian Federal Army has appeared positively in aid operations. I would like to remind you of the use of aid in Poland, but I would also like to mention the legal conditions for this. [[Calls and calls between Abg. Wabl and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Austria is the only country in which it is legally established that military and civilian assistants can and may even work together. After Poland’s call for assistance to the Austrian Federal Army on the occasion of the catastrophic floods, it is particularly important to point out the organization of the aid provided by Austrian soldiers to the population in order to prevent the danger of disease. 40 men under captain Otto Strele as an operational leader has prepared drinking water on site with special equipment and supplied some 25,000 people with drinking water. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – Look, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you too can offer here and there a condolences for the Austrian Federal Army. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and SPÖ as well as on the greens.]] The Austrian Federal Army and the soldiers in service there were ambassadors of humanity because... – Mr. Wabl! [[Abg. Wabl: The military attaché in China, that's one too!]] I am glad that you do not have to act as ambassador to humanity abroad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In this connection, I would like to say that the Austrian German army also enjoys a very high priority abroad. It turns out that the experience of the Austrian federal army is very often asked for in international operations. [[Abg. Wabl: skiing!]] In mid-October, an extensive training course took place in Carinthia, where military from Belgium, Germany, Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania, Russia, Estonia, Hungary and Ukraine took part. The aim was to share Austrian experience in the international use of disasters. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Wabl in the Kisterl!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank again the soldiers and the officers of the Austrian Federal Army for their efforts in the emergency service. I am grateful on behalf of the Austrian People's Party and the Austrian people for being also ambassadors of humanity abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e18753	The next speaker is Mr Jung. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e18779	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Sauer has just rightly said that the Austrian federal army has done a lot last year. That is a good thing to be agreed with. It has done a lot – despite insufficient conditions. But the Minister, the head of the department of this army, has also done a lot, and this deserves to be revealed too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We got an example of this today when we looked into our post folder and found the documents on the SOFA agreement in it. I asked about six weeks ago about this SOFA package – it deals with sending foreign troops to Austria – to the Federal Minister. This has obviously appalled him, and now the government's documents have been presented. For he has for a long time also silently and secretly silenced the coalition partner SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] You have probably not yet fully heard what it says, because otherwise we would have heard a few more votes in this context. But we will still talk about this matter, Minister of State. But that is quite the way in which you inform Parliament – or better said: not information. After all, they rule right past this house with enthusiasm. As Mr Gaál spoke of "constructive opposition" earlier: We're ready to do that. But that also means: timely and sufficient information – and not alone. Unfortunately, these have been more than usual in recent times. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have experienced this during the Albania mission when you promised us that a possible withdrawal of the Austrian associations from Albania would be covered by NATO. General Joulwan taught you a better person, or better said: He's shown that you're here – what's so beautiful? – consciously said the untruth. This often affects your very obscene response to the question, which occurs in the way of a Prussian junker. I would like to remind you of your reply regarding ammunition, the reply about the tanks you have given recently, and so on. [[Abg. Kröll: Ututung!]] Not least, it reminds us of your last army report, which you wanted to give us a surprising look, Minister of State. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Even the forerunner of this military reform, the so-called new army division, had to become a plea, because you have not fulfilled the requirement for it. They have not provided the army – as well as your planners – with 1 per cent of GDP, nor the necessary forces in force of 36 000 men. Nothing but a pleite could come out. The result for you: Instead of the implementation and use phase of the Heeresreform, you are now re-established as the Heeresreform-New. I would like to read to you a little more about your chief soldier, Mr. General Force Inspector, in this House, on 23 March. In May of this year, he said: For the armed forces, a clarity of political will is essential for the organization. It is something else whether they are involved in an alliance or whether they need to formulate their tasks into the blue. - Quote. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Call the ÖVP:No na!]] For the new reform of the army, you are rewording into the blue. They don't tell the army again – and you can't do this because you don't agree in the coalition – whether it has to plan with or without alliance. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They do not give him the necessary conditions. We have a military budget that has remained the same for years, which hardly covers the inflation rate. [[Abg. Auer: We're already in control!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Unfortunately, I can't deal with all that you're saying. There is now no time; but we can talk about it afterwards. This military budget is still higher than 0.8 percent of GDP. 1.5 percent have been lost to him from the planning alone in recent times compared to what you have actually assumed. And what is the case now? – Not that you would be content and circumcised in the tasks, no – rather collect In addition to everything that is still possible in tasks: to the 15 UN missions, "Partnership for Peace", which in itself are very important border security, and in the near future – as we have heard – we will also play EU drivers. Perhaps the army will also serve as a watch and close company for the introduction of the euro, as one could see on television recently. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They assist the Minister of the Interior at the border. This costs you 600 million schilling according to your own data. Actually, it's a lot more. But who gets the money, Mr. Federal Minister? – The powerful Minister of the Interior and not you who are doing the job. The Federal Government lacks this money, Minister! In this way, at least 1.5 billion schillings are missing in the budget each year for new tasks that did not exist before. It must not be surprising that the army is nighting on the cloth of hunger, and with its possibilities it is almost in the end. It was already listed today: The shooters are in the end; the trucks are missing; the new combat tanks from the eighties are without ammunition; Soldiers are praised with the storm rifle 58, which is twice as old as the Wehrmen who wear it; and they are missing – now seriously – the necessary protective equipment, Minister. This has been seen in the use of our UN soldiers in Cyprus – which you also promised the shooters – who stood there in the stone hail. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] No, no, no, This Minister said what the soldiers should do if they are thrown with stones: They're supposed to bend. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Either he's a bad officer...!]] [[Call ÖVP: Good Minister!]] This is the responsibility of this Minister for the soldiers: They're supposed to bend so he can sunk in the headlight. That's how reality looks in the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: If someone like you can become an officer, I think...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Of course, all these problems fall on his mind, for leading an army is something different from knocking beautiful sayings, as happened before. This is quite different, because of course he has problems. And what is the Minister doing? - He's fleeing abroad. 18 trips abroad and according to many counter-visit visits alone last year! From 1995 to 1996, an increase of 50 percent, costing 200 percent! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is almost a foreign minister!]] Counted were you busy with travel and counter-visit in 1996 over 70 days. This corresponds to 14 working weeks. If you base 220 days on a year of work, you were on the road a third of the year and fled from home problems, Minister! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (in the direction of Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven) Mr. Defence Minister! Do you have more such officers?]] One example: The China journey of this Minister has cost as much as three-quarters of the whole 1995 travel budget. This is, of course, more fun than looking at the problems at home and seeing how your federal army, Mr Minister, must slowly, but surely the Bundesadler must turn away from the vulture. The grenadier battalion no longer dares to drive out because the Spz are leaking in front of the barracks – and you go abroad, Minister! Moreover, the concerns of the cadre staff do not know where it will be located in the future. With your army division, you have created enough unrest. No, that's really not a leadership style, Mr. Federal Minister! With these management methods, one can no longer even sell detergents, Mr Minister, let alone lead a ministry. You may be overly demanding and should focus on the others among your two tasks that you are currently performing. Become ÖAAB-Obmann – and leave the federal army alone! They also need sufficient action there, and the federal army has been helped.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19008	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. [[Abg. Wabl has been standing next to the seats for a few minutes.]] I would like to say to Mr Wabl that a seat is also reserved for him in the meeting room. I call Mr Leikam.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19056	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19089	Mr Leikam, I put the clock at zero once more, because you have not yet had the chance to start. But now it's going on!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19110	Federal Minister! If you would also lend me your ear, I would be very grateful to you. I think your party colleague will be able to provide you with the appropriate information next time in the club. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: No advantage!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Set Clock Again?]] [[Further calls.]] Third attempt to address the floor to the Federal Minister. Federal Minister! You have said in your reply to our speaker, Mr Gaál, that your objective is a common European security policy. Of course! Our goal is also this common European security policy, and we are quite committed to the fundamental common ground for a common European security policy. On the way there, however, there are even greater differences in the views on how we can achieve this objective. If you have said that we are not so far apart, then it must be noted once again that we do not believe that a purely organisational change is enough. What we want, what we have been demanding for years and what has not yet been implemented, is a comprehensive reform of the German army. We are happy to offer our cooperation. But, unfortunately, you haven't gotten too far. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Sauer, in his contribution to the debate, has been very intensive about the efforts of the Federal Government in elementary events. I would also like to do so because I see in it a very important legal approach by the Federal Government. For one of the federal forces' legal tasks is to provide assistance in the event of elementary events and accidents, and the acceptance of the federal army... – Deputy, Mr Brigadier! [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser goes to Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven.]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! The acceptance of the federal army in the population is, to a great extent, not least based on the services provided by the Federal Army in the case of aid operations. It is a very proud report presented here for the year 1996: Over 17 000 men of the Federal Army have provided assistance for over 200 000 hours in these elementary events and accidents of the population. I think that is really a reason to thank our soldiers once again for this work. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] Mr Sauer has already pointed out that this has happened in both national and international operations. The German army has just reached the bottom of its ability to assist in the event of disaster in the individual areas of my opinion – this criticism is also clearly expressed in your area – at the bottom of its capacity, Mr. Federal Minister. There is currently no longer any ready-to-use bridge equipment to be heard. Perhaps you can answer that in your opinion. Pioneer boats may only be used under certain conditions for training, but not for use. There should also be no high-speed bridge equipment and no more corresponding ferry material for the team. Mr Federal Minister, if that is the case, I believe that this is a very sad state, and this state should give us a great deal of thought to all of us. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Young.]] Federal Minister! If it is, then in the 1998 budget, I miss appropriate approaches so that appropriate adjustments can be made, particularly in this important area. The population is very dependent on this assistance in the event of disasters. They have, of course, placed the focus on procurement in other areas, mainly in the field of armaments and in part, as we have heard – but that is also far too little – in the post-buying of motor vehicles. However, I would like to ask you to provide the appropriate technical equipment for the very important area of assistance in the event of disasters. I experienced this in my district in the summer of this year, in the municipality of Metnitz in Carinthia, which was very much affected by a storm disaster. The population was very dependent on the speed and speed of the aid provided by the German army there. I think that is certainly the result of a good image of the Federal Government, as I said at the outset, and also the not entirely uninvolved Minister of State can benefit a little if his army has a good image in the public. Thanks again for this service! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! In order to reorganise the army organization, which Mr Gaál has spoken about in great detail and on which we are still relatively far apart, I would like to draw only one point. As a Carinthian Member of Parliament, I would like to ask you, and tell you that in the coming negotiations – which will probably have to be done, as there can be no single entry into this important reorganisation of the army – your intention to close the Aichelburg-Kaserne in Wolfsberg cannot be carried by us Carinthia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] You yourself have pointed out that you see the military field of action as the most important objective of the task of the Federal Army. I think it is not justified, particularly in a country near the border, for a barracks to be closed there. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: "Catastrophe" border proximity!]] I would like to ask you to consider this again. In future discussions, we will focus on the fact that this barracks will not be closed in a border country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19246	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. The clock is set to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19267	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It may be unusual for an economic speaker to speak in a debate. I do it for two reasons – in all short. [[Abg. Wabl: White roßl instead of tank!]] First of all, I would like to express my express commitment to the German army. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think that there are many men and in the future women who have also done and are going to do very important security work for Austria. I can't quite understand the Green Club. I understand that it is easier to make fun of the state defense and of sand castles. All this is crazy funny. Nevertheless, it is quite good to have a functioning security policy. [[Abg. Wabl: If we have a security policy and not a NATO maneuver by Mr Fassleven!]] Nor can I understand how to attach to a principle of freedom of violence, which is not even a vision, but, unfortunately, only a skim. I think that a commitment to peacekeeping, and this also by military means, will probably be necessary in our world. The masters of the Federal Lord – some of them sitting here – do great work for this. [[We welcome the Liberal Forum, as well as representatives of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] The dishonesty of Austrian politics is that we all confess to the German army, but it is ultimately threatened financially. I talked to battalion commanders myself in some barracks and looked at their barracks. I have to tell you, it's really exciting: It is indeed part of the Austrian schizophrenia that, although we confess ourselves on the one hand to the federal army, on the other hand, we are not prepared to spend those financial resources necessary to enable a genuinely functioning national defence. Today, we have some military equipment, including Leikam, which serves more to endanger the army than to protect our own troops. I can't imagine how to live on this schizophrenia in Austria. If you confess to the federal army, I think you will also have to provide him with appropriate financial resources. The "peace pension", which has been spoken of today, we have been making good progress since 1956, since the founding of the federal army. With very few exceptions, we have regularly spent less than 1 percent of the gross domestic product on our national defence. After the collapse of Communism, other states have now been able to achieve a "peace dividend" and lower their budget from 3.3 to 2.3 percent. We stand at 0.83 percent today. Minister of State Defense! How you can do this as a great performance is left to you. As a second issue, I would like to make an economic cut. In June 1996, a year and a half ago, the Austrian People's Party proudly informed us that the modernisation of the army was at the doorstep. In December 1996, i.e. a year ago, the Council of State Defense decided to approve and implement the Mech package. The foreign part of it is realized, the domestic part not. There is – thank God! – in Austria another military industry that creates value creation and, as far as it is compatible with the laws, exports that also have joint ventures in other countries, where Austrian know-how is sold, and the two weapons systems – ASCOD and PANDUR – have developed real quality products that are also used in other armies. Nevertheless, the Austrian arms industry still has no commitment today; what do I say "supply": It does not even have an invitation to tender, not even an invitation to tender for the promised contracts! Federal Minister! How do you imagine this in the economic field? How are companies that can only develop this technology because it is needed domestically, how should they provide jobs, how should they ensure employment, how should they use Austrian know-how and value added if, after more than a year, you have not even sent them the necessary tender documents so that they can make an order! [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Peter! You shouldn't let the mouth write!]] Federal Minister! I think of a beautiful set of Max Frisch, which he wrote in "Homo Faber". He says there: "It's a delirium of freezing indecisiveness," and you obviously liked it. – I regret this in the sense of the Austrian Federal Army, and I regret it in the sense of the Austrian military industry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19358	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19380	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin with two comments which concern the Federal Minister personally. First comment: As one of the few Federal Ministers of the Federal Government, he took it seriously that youth employment should also take place in the German army. The apprenticeships were increased by 30 percent this year, and the German army, ladies and gentlemen, employs one third of all apprentices, for whom the Federal Government has a job offer at all. That's a performance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second comment, Minister of State: I get a lot of positive feedback on the Federal Government's information policy. [[Abg. Leikam: No wonder at an ÖAAB Secretary General!]] The information policy around the National Day, with which we communicate to our people, for which the German army is there, which tasks and what possibilities it has, has been excellently accepted by the population. I congratulate you on that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Every year, the budget for the defence of the state is the same again: Member of the European Parliament – and I do not take up the floor of Mr Gaál – and explain that nothing should actually change when the federal army is divided, but the SPÖ is still ready to discuss everything from scratch. And he, like his colleagues, goes out and says that he believes that he is going to have a lot more budget available for the German army, from the FPÖ and the Liberal Forum, Mr Moser. - Dear colleagues! Then you have to do some information work in your group and make sure that you are also willing to make more money available to the German army. Then you must not only declare fully what you are actually for without being able to enforce it yourself at home! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaál: A proper set of priorities is important!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with the Greens' point of view. The Greens are the group that does not join in these giants, but rather spend their time with sandballs. [[Abg. Wabl: You prefer to play with commissions from arms stores!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! It's really interesting for me to think about your attitude, which you keep keeping us in mind here. Firstly, "Partnership for Peace", i.e. a joint exercise for the purpose of disaster aid, humanitarian aid and the use of peace abroad, is rejected. This year, we have just passed a new law on postings. For example, the German army was used in the flood disaster in Poland. At the end of July, at the beginning of August, 850,000 gallons [85,000 liters] of drinking water were prepared when people were in distress. This is rejected by the Greens! As we see today, the federal army will be denied military defence. That's right. Your principle of nonviolence! You have supposedly discussed this for a long time on your party day and you cannot agree on your program on this point. That's an interesting matter! Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I can accept personally if you adhere to the principle of non-violence, but this is not an instrument of security policy in that country. Security policy must be based on the fact that there is also a military defence, and we stand by it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On this point, we are quite different in principle. If you already have this attitude, then at least in connection with your principle of non-violence, you do not use the proud word that you are for neutrality, because we do not all put up with it. Neutrality has nothing to do with nonviolence. Neutrality also means – you can read it in our neutrality law – that we defend our borders with all available means. That's not what you're going to do. Then don't mention that you are for neutrality! They are for non-violence – and this is a completely different subject! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am confident that if the many hands you have given today are really taken, and if you start a process of conviction also in your group, the national defence will be saved from such a budget debate next year. I wish I did!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19474	Mr Wabl has made a statement on an actual correction. I ask him to explain first the facts to be corrected and then, in short, to the actual facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19498	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger here claimed that the Greens had rejected the use of the Austrian federal army in an aid measure for Poland in connection with the flood. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He has claimed that the Greens are violent with words!]] Can I correct? I personally have been called by Mr Kostelka to see whether the Greens agree with this commitment, in which unarmed with equipment is provided in the treatment of drinking water and other measures. – I said: Of course! Your claim is therefore wrong! You just fit into the old picture of the assumptions you're giving here all the time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19528	The addition was outside the provisions of the Rules of Procedure! Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: You are inferior!]] [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the Greens.]] Now the clock is set to zero again, and MP Schöggl can start!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19570	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger praised the Minister for increasing the number of teaching institutions. – However, he has also greatly supported the number of empty spaces with double "e" because there are now empty halls, empty hangars, empty workshops, because there is nothing more to put in. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! The process of re-semination or the creation of the new division of the army was very inconceivable. I know that in the very sensitive area of national defence, where rumors run very quickly, much is spoken, and especially the officers and the teams are constantly waiting for themselves to do something and go a little further in the defence of the country, not only obeys within itself, but also listens to what is said. And then there are new divisions, and the people are all incredibly sensitive and react to rumors. It was very clumsy that this unbridled and unthinked military division was so precipitated. Minister! They will know that there are some things that can no longer be recovered, such as the spoken word and the bullet shot off the run. If they're outside, then they're outside, you can wind like that afterwards, you can't get them back! Mr. Minister! I believe that the staff pyramid is actually wrong. In this context, there is a nice comparison: In my opinion, there are too many heads and too few Indians in our federal army. There are far too many heads, and so that the heads in Vienna are not too boring, they have still secured the right to access 400 people from the force, who can then order them to the central offices in Vienna to do their service there. However, these people leave the force outside. I think that your consultants and your planning staff should drive out more often and look at the workshops, garages and hangars. They're really empty. I was amazed when in some barracks quite martialally in Reih and Lied, as it belonged to the German army, 20, 30 or 40 trucks were removed. I was of the opinion that they stood there for the ride to an exercise, but then had to find that these trucks have no license plates and are intended for scrapping. And there's no substitute for that. In my last exercise, I myself was more or less forced to drive on vehicles that were in a very worrying state. At this point, I would really like to thank the troops officers who serve outside the units, because it is amazing, with which minor resources are nevertheless performed very well in the individual garrisons. This is very, very important, because these people have a motivation deficit that would be urgent to resolve! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I would like to save a little time so that other colleagues can say something. I believe that the German army is missing – and that has already been said by Mr Jung – except for the money of the clear political mandate in which direction it should continue. On this clear political mission, the coalition is trying to disappear, and this leads to de-motivation and loss of willingness. But if you can get through to give this political mandate clearly, then the German army will go up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19630	The next speaker is Mr Tychtl. I'll give him the word. The clock is set to 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19651	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard several times today from some speakers that this budget proposal is not a jubilee budget, but it has been drawn up in the light of the Federal Government's savings programme. In addition, military strategic conditions have changed in principle, thus losing or losing the importance of classical military defence. Regional border security and border defence have replaced the overall defence. The Austrian Federal Army and Austria have agreed to participate in the international field of solidarity in the area of peacekeeping, the use of disasters and humanitarian aid. – I think that has already been correctly noted several times today. – This declaration of will was articulated both towards the United Nations and in the agreement with NATO on the participation of the "Partnership for Peace". I believe that, especially in the context of the UN peacekeeping forces, UN observation missions, NATO mission SFOR, and with troop quotas and individuals, but also with the last quota of the OSCE mission in Albania, the Austrian federal army has once again demonstrated that it is not only well-trained but also willing to take on such tasks. Federal Minister! Now I come to speak in an area where, in my opinion, something really has to happen: I was able to convince myself that, in many respects, the equipment provided by NATO and UN to our troops today does not meet the standards of the equipment we provide to our domestic soldiers, but also other armies to their people. An example is: There are vehicles in the area of UN troops, which are provided for use on the Golan, which do not have a two-circuit braking system. The brakes are subdimensional, and therefore these vehicles are not suitable for use in hilly and mountainous terrain like the Golan. Nevertheless, we have no opportunity to supply our troops there with our equipment, but they must carry out their tasks with these devices that are ultimately life-threatening. I believe that we should make greater efforts to achieve something in this area. Secondly, One of my previous speakers has already raised the question of the use of our UN forces in Cyprus. – It is true that the activity of our soldiers, particularly in the buffer zone, often entails extremely difficult and extremely dangerous situations and, ultimately, the question of whether our teams are really sufficiently protected or equipped. – I claim that this is not the case! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That should really be a little bit for us to go to the kidneys! I assume that we should make our soldiers grow up to that standard that other armies have – and I am prepared to demand NATO standard in this context –: proper helmets, scatter protection vests, ordinary military vehicles and a proper weaponry. Federal Minister! I hope all our members have seen how our soldiers did in the incidents in Cyprus last year. In my opinion, they were not sufficiently prepared for the situation. I therefore believe that, as such provocations occur again and again with which they must be expected, we must train them accordingly. This also includes equipment with full-screen helmets. Someone has made the claim that one should bend at stone blows. – I think a helmet is always better than bending, because a stone can catch you when you bend! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Federal Minister! Now another word – because the lamp here already shines – to the domestic bets: There too, it is necessary to better equip the pioneer force. As far as the budget negotiations are concerned, I have raised the question to you as to how we shall proceed. I have heard that there is no usable bridge material, the bridges we have have been installed since the last flood. We don't have rams to be able to ram the ground efficiently. All these things must be purchased. I hope and appeal to you that the resources provided for in the budget will be used as soon as possible for the pioneer forces, so that the force will have the opportunity to protect against possible disasters – against which God may protect, but which unfortunately always occur! – to be really used. I hope in this sense that you will have a commitment and that we will be able to give our assent to this budget approach.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19727	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19748	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One of the three chairmen of the Board of Appeal, Mr Tychtl, has just spoken. I can only say that in many areas I agree with his remarks. The number of complaints is high, and it does not decrease. However, it is only relatively few soldiers who complain about personal injustices that they have really suffered or have suffered. More and more soldiers are expressing in their complaints the deep insecurity or even bitterness they feel about the state of the army as a whole. There is, for example, the complaint that Unit has no more to do with a vehicle than is needed, but then under a pretext, for example, that one has to borrow a vehicle in the short term, that one is taken away and one no longer gets it back, because any administration in the capital of the country needed it more urgently. A complaint by the embittered company commander is the result. Furthermore, there are complaints from ground - defense servants who have to pioneer and find that they are not in a pioneer service and are unable to learn anything in this sector. For if they germinate why they are not trained and used for water buildings, bridge buildings or similar things, they will mean: First, we have no material and no equipment for it, second, we don't have enough people. Basic defense servants are transferred to dozens from the pioneer field and assigned elsewhere because not enough teams, equipment and also the necessary tools are needed to be able to actually communicate what pioneers need to learn. It is also heard that there is not enough ammunition in the "new" – under quotation marks, for they are already quite overwhelmed – tanks associations. There is not even the initial equipment for ammunition for the LEOPARDS and JAGUARE. You can imagine what happens in the head of a responsible commander when he looks at such a situation with his people! There is also the situation - one of my previous speakers, Mr Schöggl, has already said - that there are more and more heads and fewer and fewer Indians. This leads, for example, to the fact that in Vorarlberg a divisional military commander as there knows only a little more than a company in the borders of the federal state under his care. There are beautiful, newly created and large barracks in Vorarlberg, but only one and a half companies that have a divisional subgenus. All these evils bring to doubt and despair the soldiers, the officers, the officers, and also the teams and groundmen. It is always politically argued how investment should be made and what really needs to be achieved if one does not know where the path is going politically, if one does not know whether the path is going into NATO or not, whether we are neutral and left alone or whether we are going to find ourselves in an alliance. – In truth, however, this is a cheap excuse, ladies and gentlemen! Because whether we are finally landing in NATO – and I am convinced that it will continue to be the way many of us want it or not – or whether we are left alone, more or less neutral or not neutral: The army will not be able to keep itself in the state that we now find it, so and so. The said excuse is therefore a lazy excuse! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As much as the state of the army itself, as it represents a chairman of the Federal Force Complaint Commission from his experience in dealing with what is being brought to him from the army. Now allow me to get something into the meeting of the daily concerns of the Board of Appeal: For the next revision of the army law, which is ahead, we wish ourselves – and this cannot be a political question, one should actually be able to enforce it – two things: On the one hand, we would like to have a border on the treatment of complaints. Because the army's not a girl's pension, we all know that. Genuine injustice and real injustice are to be punished. In such cases, the complainant should be given the right. However, in cases where it is really only a question of smearing, the Board of Appeal wants to have the opportunity to reject the treatment. So we want to introduce a bagatoll border. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, A limitation period of approximately one year is to be introduced. If someone really believes to mention something and have to complain, then he should do it. But then he should not wait for one or two years until, for any reason whatsoever, it comes to his mind to turn to the Commission only then. I would like to make it known to the Commission, which will be shared by the members of all five political groups, and ask you to make this promise to the next novel, which will come.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19826	The next speaker is Mr Platter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19848	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to get closer to the German army's assistance today at the border, because the German army has undoubtedly done great things in this area over the past seven years and has taken up 73 percent of illegal border workers. Because of today's debate and since I have only a short speaking time available, I would just like to give a few comments. The worst thing today was undoubtedly the behaviour of the Greens. I've been watching exactly how you're making fun of the federal army. Ladies and gentlemen! They forget what the Federal Army is doing for the security of our country! Consider, for example, the Yugoslavia crisis in which the German army has done great things. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: What?]] There has been protection and security for the Austrian population and taken the Austrian population seriously! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You can laugh about it! I'm sure we're not laughing here! Especially in cases of use such as that in the Yugoslavia crisis, there is always a constant consent to the German army. However, if we have peace in the country – fortunately – some, especially the Greens, think that we live in a slarfen country, and immediately the populists are at work. The green populists tell us that every Schilling invested in the Federal Army is too much. Member of Parliament, young man! It's amazing what you've done here today! You said to the Minister that it would have failed for him to sell detergents. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's wrong!]] Mr. Brigadier Jung! This is a scandal of first rank! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] With all due understanding for different opinions, Mr Brigadier: In this case, you covered the bow! You have disqualified yourself, so it is not worth taking a closer look at your remarks! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, I also have to say a word about the statements made by the SPÖ speaker, Mr Gaál. – If you complain that our Minister of Defense is taking swift steps and is advised by faulty and contradictory concepts, which would then be printed in the media, I would like to say the following: The Minister of the Interior did not ask us before he spread his thoughts on the revision of the arms law in the media. But I had nothing to do with it! I do not criticise this procedure of the Minister of the Interior, although I have a different opinion on a further strengthening of the arms law. But if the Minister of Defense does something similar, the matter looks quite different! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Mr Gaál! I do not understand your sensitivity in this matter at all. I would like a Minister of Defence to take new steps and implement reforms. I am therefore pleased that we have an active, offensive defence minister with Werner Fassleven. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that the Austrian Federal Army is an extremely valuable central unit for peacekeeping in our country, for the preservation of stability and for the protection of the people of Austria. Like my colleague, Mr Spindelegger, I therefore believe that the Federal Government has not deserved this debate today.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19929	Mr Jung referred to an actual correction. I would ask you to observe the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as they have been outlined several times today.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19960	If you have said something wrong, you have to apologize! I'm correcting the following: Mr Platter claimed that I had said that the Federal Minister should sell detergents. – This is false! I said: With such management methods, one can no longer even sell detergents, let alone lead a ministry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e19993	The next speaker is Mrs Apfelbeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20014	Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20036	I call Mrs Apfelbeck.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20057	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! With the budget for our national defence, this time the tradition was preserved: It's been a savings budget for over 40 years. The following projects should be implemented: firstly, the maintenance of the Federal Government's operations, second, the maintenance of the training of the military officers and the further training of the cadre, thirdly, the continuation of the modernisation of the federal army's equipment, fourthly, the consideration of the requirements for the maintenance of the infrastructure. However, with regard to these projects, it remained beautiful but empty words. That is why I ask you, Minister of State: Which parameters are actually measured by the federal army? What is the goal, as measured by the international standard, of the German army? And above all, Minister of State: Which consultant do you have? It seems that latepubertary sandboxes-land defense games are being run in your Federal Ministry! Battalions, even whole barracks, are pushed back and forth, extinguished and dissolved. – The federal army is too sorry for such games! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Were you playing on Michaelerplatz today?]] They are not tin soldiers, they are human beings, and there is a family behind each person. That is why, Minister of State, I believe that your plan to disband the Gratkorn barracks as an artillery site is a scandal! It is a casserole of hearts, as we have seen in the media again and again; I only remember the adoption of the IFOR troops! Federal Minister! First you pump in millions of taxpayers – over 100 million schillings have been in recent years! – and then you solve it! That's what I'm asking myself: What kind of economic policy is that? I don't want to ask about military policy at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the Kaserne Gratkorn there is a unique artillery infrastructure in the German army. With several million schillings, an artillery shooting system has just been installed. I would like to stress the extremely high quality of the cadre staff, which therefore touches that the battalion has been exclusively an artillery band since its establishment. I think it is irresponsible to resolve this military body in its present constellation, because with this, Mr Federal Minister, you would destroy the result of years of training and also investment with a blow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] I am just wondering how this is represented by the ODP's spokesperson in Styria. Will you say: Yes, I am in favour of closing grain!? – I look at that, Mr Maitz. We liberals are against the destruction of existing and functioning structures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Send your - as you can see - bad advisors into the desert and let us have our proven barracks! Land defense can be built not only on happiness but also on skill. Austria has been lucky: 1956 – Hungary, 1968 –!SSR and 1991 – Yugoslavia. One last comment, ladies and gentlemen here in the House: If all the resorts had had such savings budgets over the last 40 years as the state defense, then the three previous and the certainly still subsequent load packages would have been saved from us.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20126	The next speaker is Mr Arnold Grabner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20150	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Time has already been very advanced, so I would just like to deal with military division. Federal Minister! So far, we have tried to keep national defence out of day-to-day policy. This was not the case with the so-called military division. As a coalition partner, we have repeatedly demanded the appropriate paper, but we do not get it. The speakers have not received any information! The members of the National Defence Committee have had to learn the results from the press. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Young.]] It's just impossible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Free and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister did not provide the correct information in the National Defence Committee. [[Renewal detonatative accompaniment of the abg. Young.]] He said: There is no change in the force yet, but only one communication. Federal Minister! I'm bringing evidence: Provisions have already been made to close individual barracks. [[Abg. Scheibner: scandalous!]] It's not a social democrat, it's a functionaries of the ÖAAB who brought me these papers. [[Call to the liberals:Listen, hear!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can then add something: This officer of the ÖAAB told me: It's supposed to close barracks. We regret for years that there is not enough money for the German army and the national defence, but at the same time many millions have been invested in barracks, which are being closed today. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I call you a few examples of this ÖAAB-functionalist: implemented modernisation, new kitchen building with large, modern dining room, modern large kitchen, new UO-messe, modern magazines, two team rooms, main building and and and – he said. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Where? Is this barracks in Switzerland?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude by saying this: [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Fasslevend]] This will still come to your mind, Mr President, because these are your officials and your voters. Finally, this official told me: Whoever fights, can lose, who does not fight, has already lost!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20255	The next speaker is Mr Deputies' Head. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20276	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now near the end of a debate on the military budget, which is characterized by one aspect: All political groups agree that it is a savings budget. And once again, Federal Minister, for the x-th time, it is you who hold the army budget among those budgetary preliminaries that would be required after the new army integration, which is less than 1% of the gross domestic product. I would like to add that the colleague from the Liberal Forum has spoken here: Their actions must be measured by the army politicians. The last time the army budget was over 1 percent, i.e. 1.1 percent of GDP, when almost 15 years ago the liberals were in the government. Since that time, this budget has been constantly moving down and has never again shown the required number of 1 percent of gross domestic product. [[Abg. Wabl: That was the freshman!]] Federal Minister! I think that the time of the savings packages that go at the expense of the army must be ended. Mr Spindelegger has to say clearly and clearly: He should not confuse the criticism of his Federal Minister with the criticism of the army! The army, the army members and officers working there have not criticized anyone here, but very probably your minister and his advisor with the Heeresreform-Neu-Neu. And there's reason enough for that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can continue where Mr Applebeck started with the example of Gratkorn and Mr Grabner from Wiener Neustadt continued. Federal Minister! What is on the table here as an artillery concept is simple and easy to reject. Not only the tradition of Gratkorn and the artillery training in Styria is simply negated, but also the work of the AR III in Wiener Neustadt and the four units there to be made available for the Mob case, as well as the excellent artillery work there is negated. The same must be said for the AR II area in Klagenfurt. Furthermore, the integration of the Klagenfurt into the West Corps Command Line is simple and simply wrong and rethinking. Minister! I beg you As a former member of this army, you should completely rethink the artillionment concept! What is in the new military division can only be rejected. Federal Minister! What Court of Auditors reports are currently happening in the units of the Federal Army – I remind you of the Court of Auditors' report on PzA 9, but also on all other mechanized troops – is simply and simply Potemkinian policy that is being established there. Thus, there are units that need 1,500 men and have a maximum of 900 ground defense servants in the last three years. When I refer to Pz 9 as an example: not even more than 1,000 ground defenses last year, not even 1,000 ground defenses in the previous year, 860 at one time, 230 at the other time of indentation, 760 at one time, 190 at the next date of entry – and this, although after the never implemented military integration new, the minimum requirement between 1,500 and 1 600 ground military servants is to occupy all units sufficiently with personnel. The Court's criticism is re legible. It comes neither from the opposition nor from the social-democratic majority group, nor from the Greens, nor from the Liberal Forum. Federal Minister! This criticism of the Court of Auditors alone should have enabled you to achieve more than this savings package for the German army in the budget negotiations. This burden, Minister of State, will have to bear you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Of the 4 500 free-planning stations, 200 to 300 will also be legible for women now coming to the army. I therefore think that people will be made false hope again, because they will not find the plans. I hope you will make this right in public soon to end this confusion. Another thing about the pioneer units: We note that in the 1949 pioneer units Caterpillar was in use that the current aluminium bridge equipment was approved for a maximum of 2.5 tonnes, that the rams were no longer available, that the corresponding ID card had to fight for three years, according to about the pioneers in Villach, in order to obtain a cheap field forging so that they could sharpen their tools. Mr. Federal Minister! They must be grateful for the fact that under such conditions of use, our pioneer forces receive not only recognition from the population but also this recognition, because they do overhuman – and this around the clock – in the use of disasters! Minister! You and your ministry have not equipped the pioneer forces with the basic means that would help them in the event of disaster. In part, they have to borrow equipment from private companies in order to comply with their work. I consider that simple and simply a shame, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! The concept of army anonymity is simple and easy to reject. In my opinion, it is a sad game if a letter from Innsbruck to all the members of the IGM and the former Supreme Lieutenant physician Häfele is written from Innsbruck, in which the following facts can be read literally: The fact that the health service of the Austrian federal army has for years been rich in large declarations of intent and poor in target-oriented, realizable concepts has contributed to the establishment of the community of interests. – With warm Christmas greetings for 1997, this letter, Mr. Federal Minister, concludes – it is not old, but recent dates! You should also take to heart the discussion about the army agency in Klagenfurt. 60 million schillings were not available, nor was a leasing variant offered cost-effectively by doctor chamber president Leitner. They are unable to sell a property in Klagenfurt on the Wörthersee of the municipality of Klagenfurt, although for offers with real estate prices of 6 000 S and 10 000 S these costs could be brought in at least one fifth. You can't do that! Getting our soldiers in and not having a military agency is a fact. Federal Minister! They need urgent action.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20333	The next speaker is Mr Antoni. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20362	Mr President. Federal Minister! Finally, a few comments on the training situation in the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Military Danube Waves!]] I should like to say positively that the restructuring of the military academy in the direction of the University of Applied Sciences – more precisely: towards a high-school course – has already been relatively far-reaching. I think this step of training is quite correct and I think that the path taken by it should continue. The most important features of this high-school course are: It will begin in spring 1998, the duration will be three years, i.e. six semesters, 90 study places are planned, and the final assessment will be carried out with a magisterium (FH) military leadership. That is why we Socialists believe that the path taken is correct because the areas of training, training duration and training qualification are European-specifically harmonised. In the end, it must be sought. Nevertheless, Mr Federal Minister, I should like to draw attention to the fact that the training programme – better said: the study programme – needs a very special cut, because from the very beginning one should pay attention to - I would add this as a warning - not to focus all training content exclusively on a military career. In my opinion, the army will certainly not be able to offer annual 90 graduates of the high school course careers for officers. Rather, we believe that it is necessary to develop the understanding of managers much wider and more differentiated in order to be able to offer graduates of this vocational training course a career at a civil level. The flexible use also outside the military, i.e. also in the civil field, is particularly important because you, Mr Federal Minister, have already started a shrinking process with the German army in connection with the adaptation of military division in 1992. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20400	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20421	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to talk about the chapter on military affairs with regard to the difference between Mr Maitz, who spoke about the "Chapter of External Security", and I refer mainly to the implementation of the Wehrgesetz, which also has important approaches in the budget. I would also like to refer briefly to the debate contribution made by Mr Platter, who has complained about a sensitivity here. Of course, a sensitivity exists if you are informed in such a way. In particular, the ÖVP has recently seen strange things in this regard. I would remind you that the representatives of the ÖVP have invented a novel to the association law, then put this novelle in place and now said the Minister of the Interior Schlögl: [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: I got an invitation to an event!]] Before there is a draft, contact with the coalition partner will be established. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Yes, but we all got an invitation to an event!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We are so "sensitive" that we would also like the Minister of Defence to see him connect with the coalition partner before such papers go out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not just a note that was distributed here, but a decree issued by the General Force Inspector on 17 November 1989. It was approved in October. For every soldier, this decree is an order, and this command is to be implemented. However, I am glad that today I was able to hear from the Minister's mouth that a brainstorming is being started and that the adaptation is only examined and variants are developed. In my opinion, such variants are necessary. This discussion, however, certainly had something positive. The presentation of Mr Divisional Hessel in the National Defence Committee on 28 October. I liked it on October. He clearly identified the likelihood of conflicts and presented the scenarios of future dangers. It was interesting to me that I had not seen the case of defence in the classical sense in these scenarios. He also presented the operational requirements, but only mentioned the defence in a limited operating room in fifth place. It should be concluded and taken into account when adapting. That's definitely worth a discussion. Like many of my colleagues, we are committed to strengthening the force. I do not see this goal in the draft either – I now deliberately refer to it as a draft. With this adaptation, we have 117 issuing posts and 27 subordinate commanders who have to execute and implement them. Even in the higher commanders, we see no saving effect. Now there are 15 higher commanders. Should the conversion come as planned, there will be 16 commanders as well as a logistics command, a brigade command for international operations and a special deployment staff, so a total of 19, i.e. an increase of four places. I think military commanders are also over-occupied. The 30 percent reduction is not enough for the new tasks in my view. We believe that ideological obstacles must also be overcome. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A brief comment on procurement: We have a common horse, Mr. Federal Minister, and that is the artillery. Now we have 162 guns, in the future there will be 144; 18 will enter the orbital reserve. Nevertheless, you intend to buy more artillery guns next year. In this respect, I would like to ask you again what a reasonable order for use for artillery has to look like the threat picture that Divisional heather has shown. Mr Moser once helped me and talked about battle field lighting – certainly an interesting aspect, but with additional guns: Do we want flood light for all of Austria, Minister? – I think our priorities are somewhere else: Our priorities are in the packed Mech package as well as in the acquisition of the Austrian wheel and shooter tanks. They themselves have spoken of 75 percent domestic value added. Federal Minister! I ask you: Convert this domestic value added! Finally, I thank all our soldiers for their service to the Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20497	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. The remaining speaking time of your group is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20518	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I need to talk a little faster. Mr. Federal Minister, in Upper Austria fire is at the roof. [["Oh!"- Call at SPÖ.]] You know: The excitement over the headlines of the new army division is great, because there are some barracks to be closed or partially closed. [[Abg. Wabl: Kindergartenen! Apartments!]] The draft provides that Kirchdorf, Steyr and Freistadt in particular should be affected. Federal Minister! I ask you, give this paper where it belongs: into a large safe, lock the safe, forget the number combination and put the key! [[Congratulations on the SPÖ, the Freeman and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! This is a concern of the Upper Austria and the entire Upper Austria, and there are reasons for this. Upper Austria is the federal state with the highest number of ground defense servants in Austria. Of these basic defence servants, 40 percent are already required to enter other federal states. The result is deviation from civil service – or frustration. With the re-adaptation of the existing army division, the decommissioning of an entire battalion in the barracks of Kirchdorf and Steyr is planned again, and so on. Federal Minister! I should like to ask you, on behalf of the Upper Austrian colleagues, to consider carefully and to consider how sensible and necessary it is to carry out the reform in this way. Because all the communities affected by a partial closure of barracks also suffer great economic disadvantages. I hope you understand. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Grabner.]] I know that you are a Federal Minister who is also focused on the needs of the people and the citizens, and I am convinced that you will find a right and viable solution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20574	Mrs Kammerlander is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20595	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Federal Minister, I congratulate you, because you have brought something together, which probably hardly anyone has brought together in front of you: You do not even have the majority in your own group. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Two hours ago, I believed that you only have a minority here with your group. But in fact you do not even have the majority in your own group. This is really a piece of art that belongs to attention. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Actual correction!]] There are other pieces of art, as I have noted today. We are of course honoured that we, as a small opposition party, have been most often quoted in this debate. We obviously have a certain degree of seriousness in your eyes, because you would not otherwise try to do so with our arguments. That's what I can conclude from it. But your efforts, Mr Spindelegger, were quite in addition. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Instead of working with prejudicial seriality and abuses, you should rather rely on the more proven recipe of a certain reproach if you already believe that you have to operate in the field of half-truths. [[Abg. Zweytick: These are sand games, Mrs. Colleague!]] If you are referring to humanitarian operations and therefore to the Entrepreneur's Act, then you and all those present in the Constitutional Committee know very well that we were, of course, in favour of a draft law such as the old Entrepreneur's Act, which regulates humanitarian operations, disasters and peacekeeping, but that we are still firmly opposed to a law of posting, which opens the door and door to all future options of NATO accession and full membership, and therefore we are once again cut off a piece of neutrality on today's subject. It is clear that you have not said this, so I am just saying it because we know it. We have justified it here, and everyone in the committee knows it too. One more thing you forget to say: It is your group which, on the other hand, prevents the Court of Auditors from asking for information on these very dubious processes relating to arms procurement. As my colleague Wabl has already said, there is only one speaker here in the house who had to resign because of unexplained arms purchases. It does not seem to be in your interest to clarify this matter, otherwise you would agree to the charge of information in the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, let me say: What surprised me in this debate and made me smile over and over again is the fact that you have not taken yourself seriously, in a way, all of you who have spoken out here about the German army. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is a sandy game!]] For all speakers have talked mainly about disaster protection and humanitarian operations, which are important and good, but for which we, everyone knows, and this tells you relatives, also high members of the federal army themselves, do not really need a federal army. But it is a good and cheap legitimation not only for a army, but for all the arms purchases and for all that you have purchased over the last one and a half years, but what you really don't need for disasters and humanitarian operations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If this is established by colleagues Peter here today even with the military industry, he is in good company, because we have always told you this from the speaker's desk. Of course, there is a close link with accession and a great interest in the arms industry in joining Austria's NATO! But you should express this openly and not as a liberal economist – or as a liberal – you are with the Wehrwirtschaft. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] When you talk about international peacekeeping, we are there – where there are peace operations in the classical sense, but not there when it comes to creating peace with weapons. Because that has never led to peace. It only leads to a very blue-eyed view. Finally, I would like to return to the Social Democracy, which – represented by Josef Cap – means that NATO accession would be possible without nuclear weapons stationing, without foreign military stationing and without the use of Austrian...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20681	Please put to the conclusion, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20696	... military members abroad. This is no longer possible through the Entrepreneurship Act alone. You should finally decide where your way is going!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20726	Zugsführer Fischer reports that no further words are available. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The debate is therefore closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the Advisory Group XII of the Federal Proposal for 1998. This includes Chapter 40 of the Federal estimates, together with the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate, in 841 of the supplements. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to these budget parts rise from the seats. – This is adopted by a majority. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the debate on the XII group be taken immediately. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner on the increase in the national defence budget for the performance of the tasks of the Austrian Federal Army. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00098_d7e20803	I would also like to say that at today's meeting of the Self-employed, Amendment No 631/A (E) has been tabled. Questions 3309/J to 3314/J were also raised. The next one, that is, 99. I call the National Council for Friday, 14th. In November 1997, 9 a.m., with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (841 and 841 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for 1998, including investments (910 of the Supplements). Consultation groups VIII, XIII, VII and XI will be consulted. There is no Question Time at this part-session. The sitting is closed.
