ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2274	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you to 104. I very much welcome the meeting of the National Council which I am opening here. For today's day of sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Mag. Schweitzer, Head and Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer; probably also Mrs Langthaler, because I have just heard her on the radio – from Kyoto. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2305	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: "NATO course of the Minister of Defence – respect for the Constitution and the National Council"
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2326	The reason for this is Mrs Dr Petrovic's speech. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2347	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For a long time now, in the always neutral Austria of Austria, it has been a very unscrupulous development, a development aimed at making a significant provision of our constitution, namely the self-elected and internationally confirmed commitment of Austria, to be always neutral, to stand out from armed conflict cases, more: to actively ensure that conflicts are eroded before they break out with force of arms, to weaken, to depress, to impoverish, to be impoverished, to declare obsolet. The fact is that the party that has moved this development a little further at first is now working quite openly at the break-up of the Constitution and that the larger government partner, the social-democratic group, does not put any further steps in this direction at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the House, the law on the training of women in the army is in place for decision-making. I know that many in the Socialist Group, especially the female Members, have always considered this law to be illegitimate. [[Abg. May. Posch: Not just women!]] - Not just the women. Yes, Mr Posch! But to consider a law to be dispassionate and yet decide to do so is a process that is really sad. Mr Posch! This law on the training of women in the army – and this is the current occasion of this current hour – contains more than just the fact that women are now being "happy" with it, under quotation marks, that they are allowed to go to the army, is more than just that we are no longer talking about the many discriminations against women in economic terms as regards their career opportunities, that we are not talking about how we put women's people's desire to be implemented at the earliest in this House – it is more contained: another step which the Federal Minister of State has very skillfully infiltrated and which the SPÖ does not put any further in the way. So far, the objectives of national defence have been quite clearly defined. On the back of this law on the training of women in the army now comes a new task for the national defence, namely: Assistance abroad in peacekeeping measures. This assistance in peacekeeping measures is then no longer limited – as was the case so far, for example through the Entrepreneurship Act – to the participation of Austria in actions under international organisations, within the framework of the UN, is no longer limited to purely defensive tasks of peacekeeping, no, the new task now introduced on the rear door of women in the army can already be an offensive task! You can use Austrian army members abroad! Whoever knows the other agreements that have passed this house knows what that can mean. At the time of the operation of the Federal Minister and also of the Foreign Minister, the security constitution of Austria and thus the Constitution in reality was substantially changed. Austria is already a member of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council, the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Committee, in various subgroups of NATO, but, so far, the framework agreement with NATO on the so-called "Partnership for Peace" has been simply refused to this House, this Parliament and thus the people's representation. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP has always made itself strong when the Greens – whatever they have always done and still do – have advocated disarmament, for demilitarisation in Austria, but also internationally. As you have referred to constitutional concerns by the ÖVP, you have always argued that armed national defence is an essential part of a comprehensive national defence. The Greens have always prevented you from looking differently at today's threats – we know that. We are not threatened by the invasion of any army, but we are threatened – often threatened! – in environmental terms, by nuclear power plants and by other environmental hazards. We are threatened by the growing social tensions. We are threatened by nationality conflicts. – All these are circumstances that you cannot fight with tanks and not with gunguns, but where negotiation skills, sensitivity and a neutral position between the fronts would be necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! Here, you constantly strip the picture from the "Constitutional Arch". It seems, however, Mr Klubmann Khol that this arch has become a very flexible one. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They have always stressed the danger of the Constitution by the Greens. I, ladies and gentlemen, see another danger to the Constitution as I see the danger in your group, in this Federal Minister. I see the danger that this Parliament will avoid any new agreement that essential documents will no longer be presented to this House at all. In the "Salzburger Nachrichten" about a few days ago it was to be read: Hush, heh, inconspicuously into NATO. Race of Fassl evening and bowl for the "Mister NATO". And once again: the SPÖ under pressure of a maroon armament industry. – I think that describes the condition. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, have simply given up essential sites which have a bearing on Austria's reputation abroad. They have left the foreign resort and the defence resort of the ÖVP and are looking at how this neutrality is disassembled, disassembled, disdained. Ladies and gentlemen! A further step is to be taken today to enable offensive intervention by Austrian soldiers abroad. I ask you: What's going to happen? What must happen so that you can finally take this House seriously so that you are finally ready to discuss the question of national defence and what is still in line with this Constitution? When will there finally be a voice on the part of social democracy, which will stop this dissuasive abolition of neutrality?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2398	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2413	Once upon a time, the motto – which was primarily committed to social democracy – was: "Schwerter zu Pflugscharen". Meanwhile, in times of genetic engineering and the abolition of agricultural production, both government parties seem to agree that plowshares should be made swords. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] We're not taking part!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2460	The opinion was delivered by the Federal Minister. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2481	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This current hour deals with the security of Austria, including the way in which the Republic of Austria has chosen to do so in recent years. I say 'acting... has chosen' because, after the end of the Cold War, it was undoubtedly necessary to introduce other measures in order to be able to respond properly in future because of the changed situation which brought about a complete change in the strategic conditions in Europe. [[Abg. Wabl: Who chose it? You or the government?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, this also means that new forms are necessary. And one of these new forms is that military blocks are no longer going against each other, but that it is possible for the first time in the history of our continent to avoid conflicts from the outset on the basis of cooperation and integration. We all know that the pact debate belongs to the past, but we also know that there are new dangers. It is quite true that the situation in connection with ex-Yugoslavia, when the crisis broke out at the time, was also assessed differently by the Green Group than is obviously the case at this time. [[Abg. Wabl: That was your own army!]] I remember very well the comments made by Mr Petrovic, who spoke in favour of a commitment. Parliamentary Pilz has also called for a commitment. And Alexander Van der Bellen said: The NATO presence, the military presence in Bosnia, is the best in the current situation for this country. This does not mean that this is good, but only that there is nothing better in the present situation. And that's a fact. The fact is that NATO is obviously the most efficient tool to tackle a crisis effectively. We must assume that, in the Balkans today, it is likely that if there had been no such commitment, there would still be a fight. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why not a UN upgrade? Why no CSZE upgrade?]] Of course, we too are called on all the states of Europe to participate in this peace mission and to prevent conflicts at all, or if a crisis cannot be avoided, from the outset to combat them effectively. As a result, NATO has also developed the NATO Partnership for Peace, an instrument in which all the countries of Europe participate. Even Switzerland, which is not even a member of the United Nations, is a member of the NATO "Partnership for Peace" and actively participates in it, perhaps even more clearly than many other examples show how effective and necessary this institution has become for the peace process in Europe. Of course, we have not simply taken this changeover process, but I myself and many of my colleagues have insisted that we create the appropriate legal basis for the new situation. We have done this this year through the Federal Constitutional Act on Cooperation and Solidarity when sending units and individuals abroad. It is a constitutional law which has been adopted by two-thirds in this House and which explicitly refers to the regulation of participation in the exercises and training projects carried out abroad within the framework of the NATO Partnership for Peace. There are very clear rules in this law which say what the Federal Government has to decide, what to say to the National Council's main committee, what it is to be informed about, what the Federal Minister should decide in a certain situation, to what extent voluntaryness is the sole and decisive principle and to what extent such procedures should be dealt with. [[Abg. Wabl: Why don't you lead the contracts to Parliament, Minister of State?]] This is not to be concealed in any form, but it is clearly stated that this law, as it is said here, does not justify any additional duties of assistance from Austria. That is also true, and any other interpretation is a completely individual interpretation which is in no way connected with the majority opinion of this House, the National Council, nor with the Federal Government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] Of course, we are trying to use all possibilities to teach not only in accordance with the law, but also beyond. Only a week ago, I was in the National Council's main committee and presented and discussed with you and discussed the whole exercise programme of the next year, which we jointly developed in the NATO "Partnership for Peace". [[Abg. Wabl: And when did you sign it abroad?]] I have also voluntarily reported on the exercise programme which existed before the entry into force of this law, because I believe it is absolutely right that information available should also be available to Members of this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to point out how "secret" the whole thing is, as you have said, as you have said, ladies and gentlemen: Already since September of this year there are comments in which all documents are listed individually. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] All documents which have been decided on within the framework of the Federal Government or of the Foreign Minister, which in any form refer to them, have already been published accordingly. This means that these documents are not only accessible to this House, but also internationally to all in Austria. So we have certainly chosen a line aimed at securing peace in Europe, and the example of Albania has shown very clearly that this is necessary. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the dangers are not to be underestimated by the following example. I was at a UN conference in New York about 14 days ago and was there talking to our Austrian experts participating in the review process in Iraq about the possible extent of hazards. What they reported to me has already caused me some concern. It should be noted that there is a danger that there are toxic substances in the biological and chemical fields, and also associated weapons systems, missile systems that reach up to us, so that we should not feel too safe. We should also remember how we can at all events address such a danger. You know what I think about that. I do not think that we can afford to do so on our own, but I believe that the protection of a Community is undoubtedly an additional protection for our country and for the security of our citizens, which we must consider very well in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What before? In front of Temelin, in front of Krško?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From my point of view, it is part of the responsibility of my department, but also of the entire Federal Government, not only to think from one day to another, but to take precautions to ensure the safety of our citizens as best as possible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You can be sure of this: We will not only strive to do so, but we will do everything we can to act together within the Federal Government in this regard, to take the relevant decisions and thus to create the prerequisite for Austria not only to be able to take part in this process but also, in particular, to have an organisational opportunity to achieve maximum safety and maximum cost-effectiveness in the context of this process. [[Abg. Scheibner: When will this be, Minister? You've been announcing that for years!]] That's what I'm going to do!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2652	Federal Minister! Thank you for the opinion. We are now entering the debate. The speaking times are uniformly 5 minutes. Mr Van der Bellen is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2679	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 5 minutes are short. Minister Fassleven! You have rightly pointed out the completely changed situation, which is what you meant by Eastern Europe, the collapse of the Warsaw Pact. And what is the consequence of that? – I suppose you or the RDP and parts of the FPÖ, or the entire FPÖ feel more at risk by the NATO climate, which is ahead of Austria, than by the changeover to the Warsaw Pact. I no longer understand the world in this relationship, I must say. I had always thought that these were our best friends, namely the USA, Germany, France, Italy and so on. In their opinion, however, through the enlargement of NATO, there appears to be a greater potential for risk to Austria, and that is why we should join this club now. Minister Fassleven! Because you personally quoted me on this matter: My speech at the time referred to the extreme crisis situation in Bosnia, nothing else! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The question of whether NATO itself is a sensible organisation, whether it is useful in itself to integrate countries such as Germany into NATO is not only European political, but rather world-political, but has nothing but nothing to do with whether Austria has to join this association or not. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] I am completely unable to see what the essential contribution to peace policy is to be made here. You have also not explained it to him with a word, Mr. Minister. The question is: If you want to spend more than 10 billion schillings – and I will come back to that when time is enough – what is more to achieve these peace-political goals, through the NATO accession of Austria, a well-known and also famous Dwarf State within Central Europe, or through the enlargement of the EU? Is not the essential contribution we can make in the coming years not the enlargement of the EU, the guarantee of a perspective for the people who live there, and the consequent reduction of the pressure towards migration, the emigration of people in these countries? – This is a peace-political contribution, but not the accession to NATO, which you ultimately insist on, because you have not, in recent years, received anything in foreign policy, but also nothing at all. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] If one is unable to comply with the concept of neutrality, which in the 1970s was something that lived to fulfil its content, then of course there is nothing left to one but to join this military political club. Minister Fassleven! It is obvious to you that Austria should not join NATO, but at least do not work with false figures. ==References====External links== It is said that you count the NATO entry costs with a more than 22 million schillings. – NATO entry costs with a more than 22 million Schilling for Austria?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That's not much!]] Don't you make fun of that? This is the contribution to the coffee bank for participating in meetings within the NATO countries, but not the increase in total costs due to changed military expenditure. The problem remains that the average of the NATO countries is 2.4 percent of GDP, and this would be more than 1.5 percentage points for Austria, according to Adam Rieese, about 40 billion schilling per year. Even if you stayed at the lower limit like Denmark and Belgium, that would mean about doubling the military budget, that is: 20 billion more schilling. Finland, for example, which actually has a common external border with Russia, a history of war, which is only 50 or 60 years ago, provides in its budget programme that expenditure on the military will fall by about half and then move at about the Austrian level. – This is the assessment of the risk by a state that actually has more reason than Austria to worry. But Austria seems to have to protect itself against attacks by Slovakia or Slovenia, for these are the countries which are not yet included in NATO enlargement. We must protect ourselves against this "risk" by entering NATO. - I think this is crazy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2744	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2765	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With all the understanding of the oppositional point of view, I think it is an exaggeration if, in this context, you accuse the Minister of Defence of a departure from neutrality, a secret policy or even a disregard for the Constitution. [[Abg. Wabl: But this is Kostelka's original quote!]] Federal Minister! I would like to believe your statements in committee, where you said that there are no agreements between the Federal Government and NATO, of which Parliament does not know anything, that these agreements are simply agreements. However, I must say, Minister of State, that your constant demands for NATO accession to an efficient and credible security policy are a little prejudicial. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Their way of doing things and their behavior also create displeasure, even distrust, so you must not be surprised when situations such as today arise. I should like to make it clear that, according to the views of the Social Democrats, the option report, which must be available by the end of March and which we are going to discuss in very detail in Parliament, will not be a decision to join NATO, because we believe there is no reason or need for a decision on participation in a military alliance at present. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] A military attack on Austria is not to be expected and no serious security policy analysis indicates that there is a military aggression from any side towards Austria. NATO will, of course, play a very important role in European security policy. It will bring a high degree of solidarity and security if NATO countries and non-members of NATO can build a maximum of confidence within the framework of the OSCE, the "Partnership for Peace" and other forms of cooperation, thus ensuring a close network of cooperation a security mechanism that goes far beyond the possibility of a purely military assistance obligation. As far as our relationship with NATO is concerned, I personally believe that it is the right way to intensify cooperation with NATO within the framework of the "Partnership for Peace" and to make full use of the possibility of partnership. We are also prepared to take part in joint action in solidarity without asking for guarantees. We want to reserve the right to decide in each individual case whether we want to participate in a military operation or not. The priority must be to cooperate in a pan-European security policy, not just in NATO. I therefore believe that there is no reason for us to make swift decisions regarding the termination of neutrality and the accession to NATO. Federal Minister! The necessary majority for such decisions in the government and in Parliament will only be achieved if these decisions are actually in the interests of the country and of pan-European security. We will also make the right decision at the right time with the necessary peace and quietness and with the necessary sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2815	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e2836	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have today presented an idea that was incomplete, and therefore incomplete, because you have remained guilty to us, Mr Van der Bellen: the answer to the question to which security system you are actually standing on. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Neutrality!]] I didn't hear a word about it. What I've learned from the media from you would mean: If it gets serious, then we rely on the military power of the others. And what do we do ourselves? What we do ourselves, you have discussed this in great detail at your party meeting: They adhere to the principle of pacifism. [[Abg. Wabl: This has already become a false word with the blacks! Live the Christian Party of Lord Khol! Live the Christian party of the Lord Fassl evening!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not neutrality, the principle of pacifism depends on the greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Van der Bellen! What kind of security concept is that? This is the capitulation of the responsibility for the security of their own citizens. That's your concept, but not our concept. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What would happen? Are you really recommending to your colleague Voggenhuber, who has just been attacked in Brussels, who, as he says, himself has resisted reflexively? [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: And that wouldn't have happened if we had been to NATO?- Oh, my God!]] You would recommend nonviolence to him. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that shows how to see and qualify that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: To NATO so that we will no longer be attacked in Brussels! You won't be attacked at NATO anymore!]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You like to tell us that neutrality is the most important thing for you, what you want to maintain at values in Austria. Mrs Petrovic is now quoting the law of neutrality, a federal constitution, and forgetting that there is a very striking sentence in it, namely that Austria is committed to defending its borders with all the means at its command. – A sentence that you seem to have missed. So I'm allowed to hold on again: The principle of the Greens is that of pacifism and not neutrality, and that cannot be the concept for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are just before a security discussion in Austria. An option report from the Federal Government will be presented next year to discuss all possibilities for future security policy. That's why I'm allowed to hold on to one thing: What I do not understand, Mr Gaál, is that, before we start this discussion at all, we are putting an option in the closet again, blocking it up with a taboo. If this is to be an open discussion, then we must really look at the question of membership in NATO-Neu as serious as it is. I do not think it would be possible to exclude this option from the outset. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The concept of security policy for the Austrian People's Party is not such that we clearly say: We must be there tomorrow, but we have set the standard for our discussion, and this refers to three elements that are crucial to us. The first element is the question of the best possible safety for our population. You agree. The second question, however, is: How can we also be in solidarity with those who are in distress, who are currently at risk of their security? [[Abg. Wabl: What are you doing with the Kurds?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What is NATO doing with the Kurds?]] In the question of Bosnia, Mrs Petrovic, you have been sent out on 10 June. In any case, you do not know a well-known Greenman, who would be fundamentally opposed to a police-military action. It's interesting to hear your statements today, how you've changed. They apparently wanted to be neutral to the murderers in Bosnia for a time, to the murderers. That's not a concept! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Always neutral!]] Solidarity means being there even in a serious case for others who are in distress. That's what we're standing for! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What are you doing about Kosovo?]] Of course, the third principle we are addressing is also to be able to participate in a European security system at the best possible level and not to stand by it. Their conception, which has been shown in the past, is: If it becomes serious, we are relying on the military power of the others, but on the question of security policy we are not talking in Europe!, it is probably not the best solution for Austria. We therefore remain at this level, and we believe that we can make a good decision in the security policy next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3018	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3039	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think I need to stress that the line of the liberals is massively different from the line of the Greens, but also from the Social Democrats in security policy. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But not the ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! It is really absurd for you to reject an Austrian alliance membership on the one hand, but on the other hand, to maintain neutrality only if it is not militaryly dependent. Because the condition, the causal condition of credible, serious permanent neutrality, is also a strong national defense. You should also say that you would have to invest at least twice as much in the state defence as we do now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Against NATO!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Or you want the third way we're going to abolish everything, and only when something happens do we call for help. That seems to be your policy. Ladies and gentlemen also from the Social Democrats! Mr Gaál! I don't understand your line either. They say that we are in solidarity with the others, i.e. we take on international obligations, provide assistance, but without even being able to use the rights of a full member in an alliance, namely the right of participation in appropriate actions, and, above all, without the protection of the alliance. I don't understand at all. While they want to be everywhere, we are paying a billion and a half shillings a year for international operations, you do not want to use the protection for our own security. This too, Mr Gaál, is not quite conclusive. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! It's clear to us: We are in favour of an Austrian alliance with all rights and obligations. We are in favour of such offensive security and defence policy, as we thus ensure the best and most cost-effective protection for Austria, because we can also participate in the security-political integration process in Europe. But, Mr Federal Minister, this cannot happen without this Parliament, and it cannot happen without the support of the population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you haven't understood that yet. It is not a question of organizing security policy in the silent chamber, that, although one is pretending to have nothing to do with the constitutional situation, neutrality, but then more and more action is being taken in the applications, which, of course, are completely incompatible with the status of a permanent neutrality, Minister of State. They do not hold a security debate, nor here in the House. We have not discussed whether and how Austria is involved in the "Partnership for Peace". We have not yet discussed security policy options here in Parliament, and you are also constantly telling the people the untruth. Just as you did before the EU referendum, as you are now doing with the euro, so tell the people the untruth about the possibilities and conditions of a corresponding active security policy, and that is what we criticise your policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are bringing it into the High House agreement, in which we are adopting the 1951 NATO troop statute. They also discuss, with the support of the Socialists, a "PfP-plus", which also provides peace-making actions, i.e. combat missions in other countries. And you all say that has nothing to do with neutrality, we don't need to discuss it at all. [[Abg. Wabl: With tolerance of social democracy!]] Federal Minister! But you have very different plans. You always say you have nothing to do with that, that's just the Foreign Minister. However, I am sent a paper from which I am told that this is already your option in case you do not have NATO accession to the SPÖ. Then you already have an idea. You'll know this paper. Then you have the idea of a central European cooperation, namely with Switzerland, Slovenia, Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic, to establish a joint brigade. Switzerland will cough you a little. Hungary, Slovenia and the Czech Republic will not be interested either, Minister of Defence. You can then set up a joint brigade with Slovakia. And what is this brigade to do, Mr. Federal Minister? Peace-making actions will make this brigade according to your ideas. That's fighting again. A joint brigade with Slovakia to fight! – "Wonderful" if this is your secret diplomacy in security policy! Federal Minister! You have already adopted a timetable in this paper. It is not true that this is any vision for the future. You said in this paper that in two years' time this should stand. There seems to have been a meeting already; on 1 or 2. There was a preparatory discussion on this joint brigade on December 9, 1997. Federal Minister! What have been the results of this conversation? Or was that just a brain-spin from your feather again? In conclusion: Mr. Federal Minister, we call for a clear and open discussion – in Parliament and together with the Austrian people – about the future of Austrian security policy. It's about the security of this country, and it's too bad to let it go to a steppe discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3129	The next speaker is the Federal Minister. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3150	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is quite interesting to hear from the government bank on the one hand that I too often and too strongly demand NATO accession, and on the other hand to learn that a party suddenly sends itself to avoid certain words, as now, as in the NATO question, after saying first that one is for that purpose. You're just talking more about an alliance. For one side one is obviously too pressing, for the other side not enough. I would like to take this role upon myself, because this shows that I am trying with all my means, very thoughtful, to address the security problems of Austria very carefully. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I do not "noise" into the discussion, on the other hand I do not delay it, but it will also be possible to make a right decision at the right time, as Mr Gaál has already said. There are very clear rules for this. At the end of the first quarter of next year, the Federal Government itself has undertaken to draw up an option report, which also explicitly refers to certain options, including full membership in the Western European Union. Each of you knows that, for example, the nature of the Western European Union's alliance is much more pronounced than that of NATO and that, in so far as this demand for this desire to deal with it is quite in the sense of the line of government and does not go beyond that. But every effort is made to be able to answer this government demand in time to ensure the safety of Austria in the future. And that's what other countries do. You ask, Mr Scheibner: What is this brigade supposed to do, what will the Swiss do? I can tell you that the Swiss will participate, because the other countries are already in cooperation with us. Do not forget that an entire company of Hungarian soldiers is already located in Cyprus as part of the Austrian quota. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did you talk about it, Minister?]] Do not forget that there will also be Slovenian soldiers in Cyprus next year under the Austrian quota, or that the Slovenian Minister of Defence will already visit them and that from next year also Slovak soldiers will provide peacekeeping services under the Austrian quota at Golan. And of course we would like to take in the Czechs or also the Swiss. [[Abg. Scheibner: You want a joint brigade!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is this a UN thing?]] This is, of course, a UN activity which is not only being prepared but, as one has to say, is the explicit wish of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who has also addressed the Federal Government or the competent ministers on this subject. Of course, we will try to participate in this peacekeeping as in the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How much have the conditions changed, I would like to see only a very short report from the "New Zurich Newspaper" of 9. ==References====External links== The report reads: Captain Patrik Stäheli, participants in the F/A-18 re-training courses, and his American flight instructor, Lieutenant George Riley, are finishing. The new Swiss surveillance aircraft means a "jump over two generations". And then it says: "The training did not begin with the 25-week re-training course in Payerne in June. Twelve pilots were introduced to the new aircraft in the U.S. based on Cecil Field, Florida. Seven of them are now being used as flight instructors in Switzerland, in the context of an exchange programme supplemented by two U.S. Navy lieutenants." These are the facts. This is happening in a country that is not even a full member of the United Nations because of its constitution. If such a thing happened in Austria, then someone would certainly make himself from the Green Group and say: Mr. Federal Minister, what you're doing! You're working with the American army! – It is more than natural to try to get the best possible standard for one’s own army. And, of course, we will do everything we can to achieve it. It is our duty, it is our responsibility to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A very short word to add. Last week, the Minister for Defence of Hungary visited me and told me what happened in NATO's deliberations on the subject of Bosnia. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Minister no longer comes to work before a loud visit! And the army pleaded in the meantime!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] And he has made it very clear that these discussions are taking place today not only within the framework of all NATO full membership countries, but also with Russia and Ukraine, also with Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, and that if we wish...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3243	I must ask for the final sentence, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3258	.... we would like to be able to take part in that we also have the opportunity to say that we are not excluded, that we have to consider very well whether we do not go very quickly a path similar to Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic and want to express ourselves clearly and clearly for a clear line in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3289	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3313	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is obvious: What we need is a comprehensive discussion on future security policy in this country, and I really regret that this debate will only come when the opposition in the House makes use of parliamentary possibilities. Federal Minister! What we do not want, but what your policy is so beautiful, is that you present us with complete facts and that in the field of security and defence policy you work together with Foreign Minister Cabinet Policy and Secret Diplomacy. We do not want that, and this must be said with all clarity here. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Evident is also: We have a changed geostrategic situation, we have a different threat picture, so the concept of security policy from the past – that is, neutrality – can no longer fulfil its tasks, its functions. Neutrality was part of the post-war order of Europe, and it certainly had a very important role for our country, because the fact that we have declared ourselves neutral has led to our country becoming free and independent. We should be grateful for this, but the situation has changed completely in the meantime. However, it has not only changed the strategic environment, it has not only become the threat picture another, but also Austria has changed. We have become a member of the European Union, and that means that within the European Union neutrality cannot really function as part of the common foreign and security policy. But it is also wrong to say again and again in the security debate that we either join NATO or we remain neutral. I believe that we need, and this must be the priority for Austrian security policy, solidarity within the framework of the common foreign and security policy of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: You've always said that's a fool!]] And what we still need urgently, which is also urgently needed, is security integration at European level. That is why we should set the priority there, which is why we should also take the first step in the further development of Austrian security policy by joining the Western European Union. The Western European Union is the security and defence policy arm of the European Union and should therefore also be placed at European level within the framework of our responsibility as a member of the European Union for security and defence policy. [[Abg. Wabl: This is Mossian Panzer Liberalism!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely accession to the Western European Union – that is, within the framework of the European Union – that means a country for our country. More safety in the event of the same safety expenses, and above all it means the possibility of participation and participation. I believe that it is up to us, and that is why we want liberals to take this step immediately and evenly. That is why we have also tabled a request to this effect in Parliament. But what is happening at present, ladies and gentlemen, this approach to the European security system, this integration, is a hidden approach, is a sort of secret diplomacy. The Federal Government is responsible for this. It is a very serious political mistake, and I regret that the Foreign Minister – which began with the former Foreign Minister Mock and is now being continued by Foreign Minister Schüssel – has taken all these steps without involving Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! The contracts concluded with NATO are state contracts. And if there are no political state agreements, it is at least state agreements that are complementary to law or change of law. In this case, Parliament needs to be involved in accordance with Article 50 of our Federal Constitution. And that is what you have done, Mr Mock, and this has also been ignored by the current Foreign Minister. But even the Minister of Defence continues this policy. Because the agreements you, Mr Minister, signed with the neighbouring countries, with the neighbouring armies, are also political state agreements. And if, for example, we conclude an agreement on employment in border zones, an agreement on the extension of professional and linguistic knowledge, an agreement on the arrangement of mutual assistance with the United States, for example, or an agreement with Hungary and Slovenia on mutual assistance in the event of disasters and serious accidents, then the agreement with neighbouring countries or with friendly armies on matters of military cooperation and military cooperation, i.e. a matter to be dealt with here in this House. Federal Minister! We expect it from you, we demand it, and we...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3363	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3378	I come to the conclusion, Mr President. I call on you, Mr Federal Minister, to return to the legal basis! I call on you to inform Parliament accordingly and to find a broad political consensus on this important question for the security of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3411	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. Same time of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3433	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already impressive when a so-called Christian party strengthens the word "solidarity" in a context in which it is about joining a arms alliance. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, you can say in all publics in every discussion that this military alliance is new to a peace alliance. Become alone with the word "peace" However, you will not make any change, but you will only make one change if the word "solidarity" is understood differently. Member of the European Parliament. You know exactly how necessary it is for us to be in solidarity with our neighbouring countries: with Hungary, with the Czech Republic, with Slovakia, with Slovenia, with Croatia and beyond, with other countries where poverty is so great that it is a shame for a cultivated nation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is the right word for solidarity, since the question of peacekeeping is the crucial question. And now the rational, reasonable argument comes: What is the need to strengthen, Mr. Khol? Is it appropriate to strengthen a military alliance with the great army that our Mr Fassl evening is in charge of, who is already preparing NATO by Parliament? Is this solidarity that we should include our tanks, our army, our soldiers in a great power apparatus, in a military power apparatus, which is of course also in transformation? This change does not absolve anyone. There are also people who are sensiblely gifted. The question is: What is our urgent task, Mr. Mock? Our task cannot be to spend the billions that we last decided with the votes of the ÖVP, with the votes of the Liberals, with the votes of the FPÖ and unfortunately also with the votes of the SPÖ on tanks. 8 billion schillings have been decided upon, and in the future, in the next ten years, we are also planning 140 billion shilling for military equipment, instead of using this money in solidarity, Mr Mock: for our neighbouring countries, for those countries that are in the ecological and social sphere and which are a real threat to the security of our world! What is being negotiated in Kyoto? But not the missing arms potential, but not the missing arms chambers, but not the missing funds for the equipment of a new NATO! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! There it is negotiated that we should finally consider having only one earth in which misery and poverty and crime prevail. And this crime will be fought most effectively if we use our funds, Mr Mock, our modest funds, but we still have funds in our country and neighbouring countries for peaceful development. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Against nuclear power plants, no German army helps, against a nuclear GAU does not help NATO, against which social disintegration does not help NATO! It only helps us to make targeted use of our resources. And that will become more and more necessary, Mr. Schieder. It is not a matter of us planning every schilling we have, even now, in this time still lightly. We have changed circumstances, Mr Spindelegger, we have a new situation after the collapse of the Warsaw Pact, but this new situation also means that we cannot keep this money away from those countries that need it for their economic and social development, for their ecological development. It is not up to us to find new ways to get money out of the scarce budgets in order to achieve NATO compatibility. That can't be the commandment of the hour! That's crazy! That's crazy! This is an insult to the poor of this world! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another sentence on your new NATO peace organisation: They always say that's an alliance of democrats. Where is NATO in the war of Turkey against its own people, where entire villages are exterminated? Mr Spindelegger, where is the solidarity within NATO, where their own people are killed, where war operations are taking place in their own country and neighboring countries? Where is the democratic NATO? Only peaceful development can help to change these conditions, only international organisations can help, Mr Schieder, and also participate successfully. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] That's co-design, that's co-development, that's solidarity...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3502	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3517	... and not putting our modest military resources into a large military pot, which I believe can only come out of an ancient concept, an irrational, an Ural NATO project, from which we should say goodbye as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3548	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. - Please, Mr. Arbitrator.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3569	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Four comments on this question: First of all, Mr President, on the comments made last year by the Minister of Defence, in recent months in the public: In all the coalitionary commitment, but nevertheless I say that there have been many statements that we have not liked, which we do not agree with, which we have criticised and which we will continue to criticise if they continue to fall on the part of the Minister of Defence. I should like to express this with all my friendship with you, Mr Minister, and with our coalition partner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, The answer given to this issue by the Minister of Defence today was on the basis of the government programme and the government line and in accordance with the legal standards adopted. I do not want to say with the same clarity as before: With regard to what you have said here today, Mr Minister, we understand, we are d’accord, we are fully satisfied with this answer. Thirdly, The threat pictures you mentioned and the reason why you are joining NATO, because security is so important to you – these are questions that, of course, need to be discussed. I do not agree with this short analysis of the new threat, nor with the security analysis, but there will be the option report here, and this will be discussed at the beginning of next year. Fourthly, the question of solidarity: I believe that if you are quite honest, it is not that you can say that the NATO Treaty does not bring solidarity. It is not true, however, that only those who are in NATO practice solidarity. What does the NATO Treaty say? – In one point, the NATO Treaty brings solidarity between each Member State and the other in the event of an attack until the UN Security Council decision has been adopted, and in the next place it brings solidarity to all those – mainly the Americans, but also others – who have and are attacked by aircraft or ships in the Mediterranean or north of the orbit of the cancer. Solidarity, which Austria is already exercising, is a further one, namely solidarity within Europe, solidarity within the OSCE and solidarity within the UN. Austria is acting in a high level by participating in these important efforts of these important organisations, I would like to say, to a higher degree in solidarity than is required by a NATO Treaty. This solidarity – one for law, for international law, for maintaining and restoring peace, for human rights – is the most essential solidarity in the world. Austria is taking a very strong part in this. Austria is solid! This is the most important solidarity that one state can exercise in this world towards the other!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3620	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. He's got the floor. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3642	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, it should be noted that the People's Party is and has been a political pioneer for many forward-looking issues. This was so with regard to the European Union, which was so in the reorganisation of the state budget, that was so in the pension reform, and it is in the changeover to the euro that the People's Party is a pioneer, and the People's Party is also a pioneer for more external security, for more opportunities for lasting peace through the Euro-Atlantic NATO New Alliance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser]] [[Abg. Gaugg: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is this?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You can see that with the German army!]] [[Further calls.]] Many opponents from the anti-NATO camp pretend that this political security community is a foreign organization of another star. May I remind you: NATO consists of 14 European states and two states of the American continent, and all major decisions in all essential bodies are taken unanimously, i.e. every important decision must be approved by all 16 – in the future 19 – states. That is why we are taking part in NATO-Neu by the Austrian People's Party for the full membership of Austria. Today, the political debate on this issue is as follows: [[Abg. Scheibner: When does it start?]] The Greens try to live up to their anti-Bundesheer reflex with horror stories and horrors, and the Social Democrats are doing half-and-half in matters of NATO: [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Khole]] The half say that NATO accession is the solution for the future – quoted by EU Member Swoboda, citation by Member Cap, citation by Member Gaál – and the other half says that this necessary decision is to be postponed beyond the 1999 National Council election. On behalf of Mr Gaál and his predecessor, which I cannot understand: We expect a report from the Federal Government on this subject, and Mr Gaál notes that a very specific option must not be included in it at all. I recall the text of the Labour Convention, ladies and gentlemen. This German Labour Convention bears the signatures of German Chancellor Klima, President Fischer and, of course, the signature of Klubobmann Khol and our representatives. This agreement, Mr President Fischer, clearly states: In the light of the development of European security policy, the Federal Government will undergo a comprehensive review of all further security options, including the question of full membership of Austria in the WEU. We cannot see from the outset, Mr Fischer, how you have done this to the "Kurier" that there could be no recommendation for NATO accession in the Federal Government's report. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: It won't!]] What about this pre-fixing? You determine what options there can be, which one we put to the discussion? – This cannot be the partnership in a government coalition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] May I remind our social democratic friends that Mr Bundeskanzler Klima, in his speech before the Federal Congress, has taken over literally, correctly and correctly, the quote from the Labour Convention. At the pass "up to a full membership of the WEU", he said – literally – "and that is also in NATO". Yes, of course, it should be discussed. And a decision that will certainly not be made, Mr President Fischer, is a pre-decision that we cannot accept. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Seidinger: There can be no definition of your side either!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not want Austria to turn from an "island of the Blessed" to an island of the Presumptuous because of the incorruptible. Either ordinary military opportunities, such as in Switzerland, according to Swiss patterns, then we have to spend a lot more on national defence than before – or we go into an alliance part-time with synergies and work together to make peace policy for our country and for Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3788	The next speaker is Mr Jung. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3809	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister, you're in trouble with your NATO policy. Mr Gaál announced his friendship to you earlier and said that nothing would be included in the option report. Her own national leaders have signed up for scepticism. They have accused us of being free, especially Mr Scheibner, that our support in this direction is not enough. I provide a practical example of the support you could have received from us. The Federal Council, at its last meeting before the summer, has tabled a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: "The Federal Minister for the Defence of the State is invited to pursue his efforts to join Austria in a European security system, such as WEU and NATO, consistently." That should be in your sense. And who voted against? – Mr von der ÖVP voted against, so not for their own ministers! That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: In words for this, against it!]] Federal Minister! You've been talking about transparency that you have towards this house. May I remind you that I have requested from you in committee the paper on the IPP, the individual partnership programme of Austria, on PARP, the entry document. You have not even answered the question of a Member of the Committee. I have repeated this question, you have remained sitting like a defiant little child because I asked you if you would not like to answer. You didn't even shake your head. – This is how your "transparency" looks, Mr. Federal Minister, even if you are now smiling. That's reality. They want to abstain from Parliament and this House's control. We have nothing against exercises with NATO within the framework of an orderly program, but we want to know what is happening there. When you were asked at the last committee meeting whether certain objectives set by NATO are being pursued, such as a paper, which includes, among other things, the use of troops, you refused to tell this Member – not any, but those in the Defence Committee – what is being practiced there. They provide us with information. But here you are talking about transparency. - That's not true! Has You are reporting to this House, Minister, that NATO officers in Austria have already carried out a review of whether training objectives, which are set by NATO, are also being fulfilled? – No word of it has entered this house. I remember another story, Minister of State. I asked you at the time when the Austrian troops were using Albania in committee, what it looks like in the event of a crisis, who would cover the withdrawal. You said there was an agreement with NATO. Two weeks later, NATO commander General Joulwan was here in the house. I asked him, he didn't know about it. Federal Minister! Is this the transparency you have announced – or is the evaporation and fogting policy you are running here? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You can calm down about it, but that's the reality. Let us look at it in the committee, let us go if the Federal Minister is silently and defiantly talking like a little child and does not answer a question. I guess that's not how it's going. In doing so, he knows exactly – we have shown it to him – that we have the documents concerning the objectives in which exactly what needs to be done. It wouldn't be bad either, it's already being practiced in the Federal Army. But it is about telling Parliament what the Austrian soldiers are expecting. That's why it's about – and nothing else! And that is the least we can demand from this minister here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One last example. In the last committee, Mr Scheibner asked you what the Austrian attitude is like in the case of the further development of the quality of foreign operations, that is to say, to create peace from peacekeeping, where arms use is only for self-defense, to active intervention, to the use of weapons. They replied: The old classical dispute, where two parties agree and the UN call, is increasingly rare. There you can certainly agree, Minister, only: In concrete terms, this is also intended to achieve targets. This may be legitimate, and you could have our support for such a thing. But at least tell us whether this is just a definition – you have not answered Mr Scheibner – or whether this will be the future Austrian policy. Tell the House today here and at this point whether you want it in the future or not. Minister! We have nothing against accession to NATO under order, but not past this House, not past the Members and not past the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3869	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3890	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to reply to Mr Spindelegger's reply to his reply, which he made to the Greens, that Mr Voggenhuber has been attacked in Brussels. First of all, it is not military, but the police should intervene in this case. There's no need for military action. Secondly, Belgium is a NATO country. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Gredler! An analogy you will probably be able to form!]] So, in principle, it would mean, if I continue to think in your section, that NATO countries are dangerous to Austria and that it is perhaps better to maintain the present situation. So I don't know what to do with your interpretation. But it was a little confusing, you have to admit. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The topic is so important and so burning that I don't understand... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was a simple analogy!]] Mr Khol, I am glad that you are there that I can respond to your calls again. Mr Khol! I am actually disappointed that you did not present an option report when we joined the European Union. That would have been the right time. And you know why? – Because, of course, one is intertwined with the other somewhere. This is reflected in the fact that, in the Agenda 2000, a Commission opinion issued in the middle of this year, the following rates are set out: "The European Union's enlargement must therefore be aimed at supplementing the stabilising effect of the extension of NATO." Mr Khol! "To complement the stabilising effect of the extension of NATO" – an interesting perspective of the Commission. "This stability is intended to promote the gradual establishment of a common defence policy, which could lead to a common defence within the meaning of Article J7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam." - Quote. Now let yourself with your option report time up to the next year. I think this is a pity, because this option report, which will then be announced for more than a year, will be a multi-page paper. I would remind you that Agenda 2000, which covers several thousand pages, has been written in eight months. I do not understand what a hocust pocus is, that one needs over a year to explain the options at all, not even to discuss before, but even to find out what possibilities there are. I think it is very unfortunate that you, Mr Khol, are trying to contribute to a delaying tactic and that we are not talking in time about what we want on this issue. The Liberal Forum wants to involve the WEU in order to achieve a functioning defence structure in Europe, to help build it up, as did Mr Khol, General de Gaulle at the time. Charles de Gaulle was a very important personality and led a very large country in Europe. And the policy of the "chaises vides", which he pursued at the time, has come about because he was unable to convince NATO that there should be an independent European defence policy. But obviously there are partners in other countries who would be very cooperative with us in this matter. There are also people among the Social Democrats who want to take this option seriously and strive to have a European defence structure. But what does the Federal Government do? – It sleeps comfortably until the first trimester of next year. I hope that you will then be ready to respond very quickly and will not need several years until you have agreed within the coalition what you want. The problem is urgent. We need an opinion, and we need to position ourselves in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3950	I do not have any further words in the current hour. I therefore declare the current hour to end. I would like to thank the Federal Minister. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3971	I may announce that the Government Template (1032 of the Supplements): The Federal Act, with the integrated displaced person from Bosnia and Herzegovina, to secure the further right of residence, has come into the House. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e3993	I should also like to say that Members Scheibner and Comrades have called for urgent consideration, before entering the agenda of today's meeting, of the written question 3416/J by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades to the Federal Minister for Defence concerning the threat to Austrian interests and the insecurity of the population in matters of security policy and defence. This desire must be taken into account. The urgent request will arrive at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4019	I would like to sum up the debate on points 2 and 3, 4 to 11, 12 and 13 and 18 to 20 of the agenda today. On the other hand, are objections raised? This is not the case. That's what I'm saying. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4043	I shall now go into the agenda. In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates as follows. A day-block speaking time of nine "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126, Freeman 117, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That's how it's decided. 1. Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government Template (915 of the Supplements): Women's Training Relationship Act – FrAG and on Amendment 151/A (E) by Mr Herbert Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the establishment of legislative and organisational measures to enable women to volunteer in the Federal Army (1037 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4080	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I don't have a desire for reporting. That is why I start with the call of the words. Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European The clock will be set to a voluntary speaking time of 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4107	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The question of women in the army, the possibility that women also provide a service with the weapon and in uniform, is, like so much in the field of national defence, an infinite story. In my opinion, we have only completed one stage in this infinite history with this government template, which you will decide today and which we will also take part in, because I do not believe that the regulation, as it is presented here, will take account of the fact that those who have introduced it are really concerned to give women the opportunity to serve with all the rights and obligations in the field of national defence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! This is a call which the Liberal Group set up years ago, in particular. We have been in the committee for a year and a half. There has been very tough negotiations between you and apparently women's minister Prammer. One often has the impression that some in the SPÖ group were not at all involved and are not very happy about the result that has come out of it. It was strange things that were always presented there against the possibility of women being assigned to the federal army. There it has been said, but they must not get a call order, because that would already imply a commitment somewhere, and that cannot be supported, only no obligation. There must be absolute voluntaryness. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is a contradiction!]] And above all, Mrs Colleague, women are only allowed to serve the German army if they do so in professional practice. And that is what it now looks like in the government template, in the request you have submitted to us. This only achieves one of two possible and necessary objectives. One thing is – of course important and comprehensible – that women should also be enabled to work in the field of national defence. However, the second objective, Mr Federal Minister, which I think would have been even more important, is that women should also be given the opportunity to use the weapon outside the military service profession, has not been achieved again. That would be the necessary measure, also in the defence policy sense. So far, it has been true that 50 percent of the Austrians, namely the women, have been excluded from the national defence, and one has now had the opportunity to send a signal that national defence is not a question of 50 percent of security policy, namely men, but that all are included, and that, as far as they wish, women are also given the opportunity, on a voluntary basis, to engage in military service with the weapon. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Unfortunately, this has not been implemented. You can also see here: If you're negotiating too much, there's a bad compromise. In this sense, we will also put forward a corresponding amendment. Federal Minister! There are also other points to be criticized. I believe that they have also been badly regulated by the professional career. There is a completely incomprehensible employment guarantee, a de facto employment guarantee for women starting the training service – at a time when you have a stop at the team. That is, every force has the biggest problems to get the necessary cadre staff because there are no posts of service, although there would be enough interested persons. Now imagine the case, Minister of State: A woman begins training, and a commander of troops has to take up a post of service, and he must or should reserve this post for this woman. He does not know, however, whether this woman will really take up these posts, because the second point we criticise is that women who start this training service can also end them prematurely at any time. So this is a complete uncertainty for the respective commander, and I am telling you now that these rules of the basic idea will provide a very bad service, because everyone will try, as far as possible, to prevent women from being integrated into their unity. Someone from your department once told me: Those who have worked out this scheme in such a way will, in fact, prevent the possibility for women to make equal service to the federal army. That is also the point we are criticizing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They have also made extensive further amendments in this government template, as it is even interesting that only the title of this law extends over half a DIN A4 page. Federal Minister! They have tried to involve in the original government template a number of measures which have nothing to do with the question of women's training law at all. That too, I think, is not exactly a good way of doing parliamentarianism or how to deal with Parliament. If you want to make changes to the law, if you want to organize the Council of State Defense differently, then bring They have their own legislative proposals, they have their own government documents, and we will also discuss them separately. I was very glad, Minister of State, that, apparently at the pressure of your coalition partner, most of these non-essential materials were taken out of the draft law. But some of these points are still included, for example: Change of law – foreign deployment – and military pilots on time. A new regulation is quite positive, but I ask you, Mr Federal Minister - I have already done so in committee -: Where are the prospects for these military pilots, who are now paid decently and who have a good regime? What future prospects will they have? It is known that the Dragon is to be excruciated. Where are the prospects for a post-purchasing? – You should also say that when it comes to regulating the possibilities for military pilots for the future. There is also a regulation on time soldiers in this draft law. Why not increase the maximum commitment period for time soldiers to twelve months, as was the wish of the force? – We liberals will make an amendment in this respect. It would be desirable, precisely because of this restrictive stop to take up, for a longer period than six months, to be able to provisionally hire candidates for service posts in the Federal Army. To sum up, I would like to say: We liberals will show, in second reading, that we are in principle in favour of opening up the army for women, but that we have many criticisms in terms of concrete implementation. We believe that today's decision will only be a stage of infinite history. I believe that we will have to adapt this proposal to the National Defence Committee very soon – and then hopefully open the federal army in the context of the militia for women.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4169	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4190	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! About five years ago, Mrs Rosemarie Bauer – according to the desire of dedicated women – publicly formulated for the first time the possibility of women's voluntary access to the Austrian army. As a result, there were quite a number of reactions from other parties. As a result, a group of young women from all professions and social shifts founded an association with the aim of enabling women's voluntary access to the army. These women have contributed much to the education of opinion and to the real concern of becoming a professional soldier. Since February 1995, I have been involved in the implementation of this project as an ÖVP speaker in my responsibility. We from the People's Party have pursued two objectives. The first goal was to provide women with new career opportunities – in an area that is important for society. The second goal was – and I would like to say so – to give a positive impetus to the German army’s reputation. Today I can say: Both objectives have been achieved. In the future, there will be women as professional soldiers: for many tasks, for tasks they choose themselves – and that in all ranks that exist in the army. It will be a good thing for the federal army if women volunteer to provide military service to the community and if women will also be involved in peacekeeping in foreign operations. We had two ways to achieve these objectives. The first would be a narrow formulation in the constitutional order, that Austrians can perform as volunteer soldiers at the Federal Heerdienst, while being equal to male citizens in all rights and duties. - That was the simplest form. The second option was to provide for a comprehensive regime in which the voluntaryness and the special commitment and service relationship with the training of professional soldiers in all areas is consistently maintained. In addition to the basic law on the training of women in the German army, we have agreed to the second path and have added or amended 48 existing laws. The Minister of Women is to be thanked for this political will-building, but above all the Minister of State for Defence, who, in long and very consistent negotiations, was able to fully achieve our two objectives. But I would also like to thank the authorities in the Federal Ministry of Defence: They have made it possible and explained precisely, with expertise and commitment, what was necessary to ensure these common objectives. With this draft law, women are open to all those military careers they themselves strive for. The principle of voluntaryity has been consistently respected. Civil servants in the Federal Ministry of State Defense will have the opportunity to take up a military follow-up career. On one point, however, we have not reached agreement with the government partner – that has already been mentioned – as regards a voluntary military service for women. In this regard, we have agreed that an observation period is necessary in which women's actual interest in this work is to be explored. We thought it would be useful to allow women to work with a military career, but we agreed to this compromise and will be discussing it again with the government partner and Parliament at the time. Ladies and gentlemen! From this point of view, I would like to ask all women who choose the military profession in the near future to have a solid training, interesting tasks, a successful career, and the awareness that they are doing an indispensable service for their fellow human beings.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4262	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4287	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are today discussing the government paper on "Service for Women in the Federal Army". It has already been mentioned by my previous speakers that this is a very comprehensive bill, because at least 48 laws are amended. I would, however, like to comment on the way in which the government parties operate. The government template, which must be said, in the way it was presented to Parliament, was actually an expression, because under the title "Women's Education Relationship Act", not only was the legal new regulation for the service of women in the federal army packed, but one has tried to make additional legal changes to the Wehrgesetz – but without expressing that. I therefore think it would have been useful not only to change these names but also to remove those provisions and amendments which are not directly related to this issue. Mr Scheibner has already mentioned it: The Ministry of Defence wanted to celebrate something in this House. Thank God it was possible – with the support of the SPÖ – to claim this out, so that we now essentially consult only those provisions that are original of the question of the service of women in the federal army. I also miss a comprehensive social policy discussion on this point. At least this could have been done if the practice had been observed in relation to an assessment on this issue. On the side of the Ministry of Defence, there has only been a review of the original draft, but no review of the government template or negotiated paper. I think that's a disadvantage. On the basis of the position negotiated by the coalition parties, a comprehensive social policy discussion would have made sense. I regret that this opportunity has not been realized. In principle, we consider the service of women in the Federal Army to be positive; we have been committed to doing so because this also opens up to women a professional image within the framework of the army. This is already common in other armies, and I therefore believe that what has been in other states for a long time makes sense within the federal army. I have an overview here that shows that in all the armies of the EU countries women have the opportunity to serve there. [[The speaker keeps a brochure up to date]] In Italy this is not the case yet, but it is planned that an average of between 2 and 8 per cent of the total strength of the army will be made up of women. Overall, in Europe, especially in the Eastern European states, the service of women in the army has been a matter of course for decades. I believe that this is a very important step towards equal treatment for women, even if the military service is a very extreme profession. I also believe that the German army can go ahead with a certain pioneering role, because if a professional opportunity is created within the army, the opportunities for women in the field of universities or the administration of sovereignty could also be improved. If there is the same wage for the same work within the federal army, I believe that this principle can also be achieved in other areas. This could have been a very important step. I regret that this opportunity has been denied, because it is precisely because these regulations do not bring about real equality, but it will once again lead to a disparity between women and men vis-à-vis women. Therefore, we will not give our consent to liberals of this bill. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We will not do this for the following four reasons in particular: First of all, it is absolutely voluntary; I will come back to it. Also, the preferred takeover of women cannot be in their sense. There is still limited access to the various uses, and above all there is – for my not comprehensible reasons – a separate service authority. There is also a "reason career" which is to the detriment of young women and those seeking such a "reason career" because only limited possibilities of use are provided. In view of this, I must give my full support to Mr Majcen's concern, which he expressed in a lecture before the Austrian Office Society or the Society for National Defence and Security Policy, by saying that in the German army there is "care that instead of female soldiers on the basis of equal training, we are getting page beginners with preference in the occupation of jobs. It is hoped that this concern will appear to be exaggeration and that the final legislative formulation will destroy such concerns." - Quote. I can't calm down Mr. General Force Inspector Majcen. The Minister responsible has done nothing to disperse the concerns that exist within the army, and no amendment to this bill will be made. It was denied an opportunity, and there is no possibility of equal service for women in the federal army. I would like to make a brief statement on the four points we are not going to vote for. First of all, absolute voluntaryness: There is a possible withdrawal in the law at any time. This possibility of leaving at any time is clearly contrary to a planned service, it leads to uncertainty in relation to personnel management, and this will ultimately have an adverse effect on women. This possibility of withdrawal at any time is also contrary to the professional image. We Liberals say it is voluntary, but we also say that this yes to voluntaryity must involve the willingness to take over the duties related to this profession. It cannot be that, for example, when it comes to fulfilling the federal army's core area, namely military defence, one can say goodbye without any prior notice or for a reason which has always been agreed. We do not think that this is reasonable, and we believe that this is a very blatant weakness. If someone does not want to accept that the service in the federal army is connected to this task, he or she should not volunteer to report. Those who volunteer as soldiers to serve in the Federal Army must be aware that this is not a service use at any desk or, for example, a service use in the financial office, but rather a service use in the armed power of the Republic, and are finally prepared to implement and implement political objectives and, in any case, to protect society, apply arms force. This is part of the professional image – and the ladies must be aware of it. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: And the gentlemen!]] For the preferred takeover: The admission to the training service is automatically linked to a takeover as a military person on time and subsequently also as a professional soldier. A preferred takeover does not apply to men. If that were the case, Mr Maitz, you could shake your head 27 times more, then it would be uneconomic. There are restricted possibilities for men to take over. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's not right! That's wrong!]] Mr Scheibner mentioned the following: There is a recording stop; the units only have the opportunity to record one or two soldiers who volunteer. But there are more than just these two persons who volunteer to serve as a military person on time, as a time soldier or as a professional soldier. For women, this possibility of taking over is automatically guaranteed after the training service and will therefore lead to dissatisfaction within the federal army. This is not in the sense of equal treatment, and this will ultimately have an adverse effect on women. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! For this reason, the service of women within the federal army will only have very limited acceptance, although I know that the force is in principle in favour of the service of women to the federal army. The whole thing is strengthened by its own service. It is not at all understandable why the army fee office is suddenly responsible as a service authority, while for the other area the existing service authorities, corps commanders, have the military commanders responsible for this. There are disadvantages to be expected in connection with the management of staff, and it is also not possible to implement the provisions under the equal treatment law, because this law provides that women, for example, should be preferred in the case of equal qualifications. Who should carry out this assessment as a Joint Service Authority? Since there are different service authorities, there will be no joint assessment – and this will ultimately have an impact on women. Next point: restricted access to military service. It is true that the present regulation, which is the intention of the Ministry of Defence, will allow women to serve only in the military service in each arms hole, with every degree of service and in every function. And that is a very, very serious restriction. Military service is a central area of the Austrian military system, and it is therefore absurd if women are excluded from this central military area. I believe that the military service in particular could be a very important follow-up to the training service, a follow-up if a woman no longer wants to continue active service for personal reasons – and for economic reasons this would, of course, be better, because otherwise a lot of qualifications will be lost if women do not have the opportunity to provide military service. But it would also be more reasonable for defence policy reasons, because it would be a very important aspect, so to speak, for the full integration of the German army into the population, even though women should also provide military services. – But, unfortunately, all this has not happened, so again: Here's a chance. Once again, the coalition has found only half a solution. Ladies and gentlemen! These are failures that will have a negative impact on the federal army as well as on the national defence. And above all, with this bill you have not really achieved your intention to open up another career for women. – That is why we will not give our consent to liberals of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4386	The next speaker is Mr Anton Gaál. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4410	Mr President. Federal Minister! In the Coalition Agreement of March 1996, the government parties agreed to open up equal opportunities for women of professional careers to the German army. This coalition agreement has been taken into account today's draft law on the training of women in the Federal Army. The legal conditions now allow women to serve in the federal army. For many months, we have dealt with this very important and sensitive matter in great detail; it has also been discussed and discussed in detail at two meetings of the National Defence Committee. It was also our concern that only those provisions relating to the service of women in the federal army should be amended in the Wehrgesetz. We have also succeeded in making the legislative innovations concerning women clearer. Furthermore, I believe that further defence changes will be decided at a later stage in a separate military change package in connection with the adaptation of military integration. Our joint amendments confirm and prove that, by the last minute, very dedicated and responsible work has been done, so it is not really possible to speak of an "over-oiling" of the opposition. We stand for the opening of the federal army to women, who are now given the opportunity to take up the military career. However, we also ensure by means of legal accompanying measures that there is equality between the soldiers with the male army members and there are women-related conditions for entry into this new career. The admission of women as soldiers to the German army takes place on the principle of absolute, at any time voluntaryity. This principle is also underlined by the fact that the voluntary military service of women is not assigned to the general obligation of military service but is based on an independent, independent constitutional basis. Women are open to all military careers and military uses. This concerns the weapons hole, the function and the degrees of service. Thus, the greatest possible equal opportunities is ensured here too. The training and service requirements for women will be the same as those for men. The training relationship also offers full social security. After 12 months of training, a transfer to the Federal Service is planned. In addition, a "reason career" will be opened for women civilians of the defence resort. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that, in connection with the parliamentary treatment of this bill, it is claimed that "preparation operations" would take place for a "slaughter NATO accession". On the contrary: This Austrian regulation provides for career opportunities that are not available elsewhere, even in the NATO-arms. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Then why is peacekeeping inside?]] Today, military use has also been mentioned. – We are opposed to the demand of the liberals and the liberals for a military career for women, because the law on the training of women in the federal army is based on the principle of voluntaryity. [[Abg. Scheibner: The militia is also voluntary!]] An exercise obligation as a military soldier, Mr Scheibner, as contained in the requests of the liberals and the liberals, contradicts this principle. Therefore, there will be no consent from SPÖ to the obligation to exercise as a military soldier. [[Abg. Scheibner: That would also mean that women are not allowed to enter into independent contracts!]] At a later date, I believe, this will be discussed if the experience gained from the career career of women is in the active position. I believe that we should then deal with this question. Finally, I would like to point out that the opening of the military career for women will create additional opportunities for women to work. The Federal Government is now called upon to fulfil the legal requirements we have created in such a way that there are also optimal conditions for women who opt for these careers. . We therefore give our approval to this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4494	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4515	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I do not think it is a coincidence that all my previous speakers were male colleagues. It is certainly not a coincidence that when it really comes to such a big step on the issue of equal treatment, it is not here that women are standing and talking. [[Interlocutors Gaál and Hans Helmut Moser.]] I will come back to that in my argument. Something's not right. I am also of the opinion that some women know very well that equal treatment is to be sold very cheaply with this government template, and that there are some things that are wrong. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Gaál.]] I would now like to start with fundamental points. Mr. Federal Minister, you have published in your department a study entitled "Women and Armed Forces". Finally, this study summarises the whole environment of this matter. It is pointed out that the decision on whether women come to the army or not should be taken only after the major decisions have been made on Europe's future security policy and, above all, Austria's, and after the related issues, namely military duty, the professional force or any alternative possibilities, have been discussed and decided. Only then, according to the authors of this study, should the question of women be decided on the army. Why? – Not so much because you want to push it to the long bench. I do not believe that after reading this study from the beginning to the end – it has been positive – but because it is rightly pointed out that the presumption, although only one detail and one question of this complex context of future Austrian security policy, may lead to consequences, may be a political change which may prove to be harmful or not adequate afterwards. In this context, it should be noted that: It is not certain that the decision on a future European security policy and on Austria's participation in the same will not result in a reduction in the armed forces and then in a disarmament in the Austrian defence. What about the decision we have made today? From what point of view do you see that then? And: Where does this decision lead? Therefore, first of all, it is necessary to ask the fundamental question of how the future of Austrian national defence, how Austrian peace and security policy looks, and only then will the question be decided how the Austrian state defence should then be composed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is no coincidence that this debate is now being held, because the pressure of legitimacy that is burdening the Austrian federal army is increasing. It is not a coincidence that this debate was not held 10, 20 or 30 years ago, not because there might have been no consciousness on matters of equal treatment, but because there was no will and no need for it. It was 30 years ago or more of the legitimacy pressure on the German army not as great as it is today. Of course, the acceptance of the federal army should be improved; that is clear to me. It is hoped that with the opening of the federal army for the women, a greater popularity of the federal army will be achieved. However, I wonder if it should happen in this way – this is a magazine that corresponds to the way the ÖVP thinks, which comes from the environment of the ÖVP – whether the acceptance of the federal army should be improved in this way. [[the speaker keeps a magazine up to date]] I wonder if the federal army will be more popular. I could have brought you countless cartoons and photos from the "Kronen Zeitung", but then of course you would have said: We know that, the "Kronen Zeitung" always publishes something like that! But the "Kronen Zeitung" is the most read paper in Austria, and there is consciousness created, there are pictures created, even pictures that show what it means when women go to the German army in the future and how this takes up a man society. It is no coincidence that we have a government paper here today that you say it would be a matter of equal treatment, in which my previous speakers – with the exception of a previous speaker – claimed that this would open up a career for women. – That’s not true, and you know that very well! There is no professional image for women in the army. [[Abg. Murauer: What are we doing today?]] This is not because you are setting up a voluntary training course, a training service, and because, after this training service, there is no obligation that what women learn in one year's federal army should continue in a profession. In addition, you know very well that the Ministry of State Defense has to save sites whose number has to be reduced. You know very well that savings are on the agenda. As men, when it comes to the closure of barracks, they discuss again very strongly and emotionally. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Unbelievable stories continue! Grey stories!]] You know very well that there are already difficulties for the workers in the German army. You know very well that there will be huge difficulties for women in the federal army who, under this law, rightly hope to be able to continue an adequate career at last. It's not a talk about it – no talk about it!This has been written to all of you in the parent book - that a new professional image will be opened for women or that new job opportunities will be created. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Of course! What else?]] If there is any further evidence to this end, I would like to quote from the study by the Ministry of Defence, in which it is stated in the summary that it would be advisable for a first step of women's access to the federal army if the women did not seek too much. - Well, that's wonderful! One opens the Federal Army for Women and gives them the advice at the beginning: Don't strive too much, because it's not played! – To be read in a study of the Ministry of Defence. [[Abg. Scheibner: There are many studies!]] There are many studies, that's right, but that's the only thing about this matter, which is interesting by the way. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This too is wrong!]] It also says that there are not too many applications for women. But you, Minister Fassleven, pretended that countless women in the German army would be given the opportunity to take up a profession. However, they conceal that it is only a few who can get there. The following is also quite striking in this government template: This has nothing to do with equal treatment policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The equal treatment law also applies to you, Mrs. Kammerlander!]] Let's start with the language! They have not made linguistic equality despite massive criticism in the assessment process by various ministries, various bodies and institutions. This law is male, is thought male, and I do not think I must point out to you once again that language is the consciousness and that language is the condition for something to change, that something changes in the feeling and in the opinion of the men as well, and that it does not remain with the image that men of women have when they enter occupations that were previously reserved for men. Again: The language is the first condition for something to change! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, you have not done any linguistic equality, you have consistently left the law as it was in his formulation, including the professional names, such as watchman or chief man, the soldier, the needy. There are no female names in this law! All of this is not a coincidence! There is a study by the Ministry of Women – commissioned a long time ago – in which the situation was examined in comparable eight selected forces in Europe and the United States. Do you know what happened? – The fact that the military – no matter what the country in which we live – has experienced an extreme deterioration of femininity, especially in the army. That's not by hand to refuse, you can't wipe from the table, because you can't just say: We'll see! It's still going on. It is stated in this study that it is immanent to the character of an institution such as the military that there is a depreciation of femininity in this, because – the military and also the police – it is one of the last great men's alliances in all countries. Because the military is one of the last great men's alliances, there discrimination down to sexual harassment is particularly crass and particularly sharp. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You don't know what you're saying!]] Furthermore, this study notes that in no military in which women can already perform their duties there has been a genuinely equal career. In no one! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: horror and horror stories, otherwise you have nothing to offer!]] It is already clear to me that you as a man and that the speakers out there are defending it. In my opinion, however, this is not at all a justification. It's fact: In America, of almost 1,000 generals, only eleven are female generals. What do you say? We know this situation in the areas of public service. There's the glass ceiling. He already exists in countless areas. The higher the level of service, the more difficulties for women. It will be even more difficult in the field of national defence. Why do I throw that before you? – You can get upset about it! – Because You have not taken any action because you have not taken any precautions because, as the law shows, you do not intend to actually achieve or pursue equal treatment, because otherwise you would have started with the language and continued where the Minister's reporting obligation is concerned, and according to the criteria we have long established unanimously, you would have specified exactly what a equal treatment report must include, which criteria must be included in it so that we can evaluate women, which has actually changed and improved in this area for women. But it is not defined in this respect. A report will be made once a year. We will not be able to see anything at all – except how many women are employed or in the training course. More will not be included because you do not seriously mean this. [[Abg. Kröll: Give the women a chance once!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Admit that you are against it! That's enough!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have not concerned themselves with the possibility of more discrimination in the workplace, in the course of the career, including more sexual discrimination, and they have not provided for the strengthening of the relevant bodies. It is an old demand from the Greens that the equal treatment officers in the ministries should continue to be strengthened, in the sense that they have actual powers of representation. Nothing of this has happened! You have also not been concerned about how the Board of Appeal will deal with these questions in the future, except that you have raised appeals that it may also be a few women in this Commission in the future. All this – especially that there is no professional image in it – is pitiful little! Again: It is a step backwards in the Austrian equal treatment policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm sure I can prove this to you in a year. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say once again: Why did you do this? – Not only because the legitimacy pressure on the federal army is so great, not only because you believed you had to create a higher acceptance for the federal army, but also because you are taking a step towards NATO capability again. This goal is in fact hidden in this law. This is one of my big accusations: In this law, you have extended the function of the federal army: They have expanded them in § 2 para. 1 lit. d by writing that the German army in its function is now also there for the measures of peacekeeping abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Federal Constitutional Law on the Send!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: In the Federal Constitutional Act on the Send!]] That's something different from the Entrepreneur's Act. While the Entrepreneurship Act points out that peacekeeping can only take place within the framework of international organizations, it must and must, therefore, specify the framework for peacekeeping, it is not about sending troops abroad, but about the character of the federal army, about the function of the federal army. Here, suddenly, an intervention army from the Federal Army becomes an intervention army. It is through § 2 of the Federal Army an intervention army, because They write in 'for peacekeeping abroad'. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: I haven't heard such a nonsense for a long time! The Constitution also applies to you, Mrs Kammerlander!]] If you compare this using all NATO documents, if you compare it using all decisions on NATO summits, then know You're right where the train is going. There are, of course, no more threats on the European continent that would still justify a highly equipped army, but there is the need to secure access to resources in non-European countries, even before civil wars, also from unrest and also from war conditions that prevail in these countries. If you look at this from this point of view, you need, of course, a function description of the federal army, which corresponds to a NATO capability. Also at NATO – read the papers! – it has long been a matter of "out-of-area operations", it has long been a matter of actions to be carried out under the cover of "peace assurance" in the future. To all of this, you obviously have, because you couldn't do that otherwise, the women you used to open up the federal army for so that you could have a title for your actions. They had much more to do – and then they deleted it after the great criticism that came. You obviously needed a title, a measure that you obviously liked, and so you have opened the federal army to the women. However, this has led you to a step backwards in the field of equality policy. Ladies and gentlemen! They have thus brought the German army a step closer to NATO and made NATO more suitable. But you give the women who cannot follow all these debates a completely false promise. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: A lively imagination has Mrs. Colleague!]] That's what I'm gonna blame you for! They give women the promise that this would actually create urgently needed jobs, but this is not the case, since at the same time the number of planning posts is reduced. The bill, gentlemen, will certainly be presented to you by the Minister at the latest in reporting.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4795	Now, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven is speaking. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4817	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, exactly 100 years ago, Gabriele von Possanner was the first woman in Austria to reach the doctor of all medicine at the University of Vienna. At the time, she had to take all the exams, although she already had the doctorate of the University of Zurich, once again because she was not trusted to actually bring all the skills and qualifications to them. I am pleased that today, exactly 100 years after that, another milestone will be achieved on equal rights for all women by removing the last discrimination on access to certain professions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is not only a day of success and joy for women, but for all the followers of an open society, the people do not judge what race or which religion they belong to or what sex they are, but according to their abilities, their inclinations, their character or their willingness to perform. Thus today is a day of joy for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen! We have repeatedly encountered difficulties in the history of equality between men and women over the last decades. This was not only the case with Gabriele von Possanner, but also with the introduction of the general right to vote in 1919, which was also the case with Grete Rehor, when she became the first minister in a federal government, that was also the case with Marga Hubinek, when for the first time a woman came to the Bureau of the National Council, that was also the case with Lies Propop when she became state councillor in Lower Austria, and that was also with Waltraud Klasnicos when she became the first woman head of state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: And Heide Schmidt as President!]] It is always a way that is bordered by prejudices, half-truths, precepts, and absurdities on one side, but on the other hand it is marked by a determination, also by a persuasion and by a skill, but the right which is undoubtedly present. I also feel reminded of so many situations in this House during the discussions of recent years during this debate. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not for the first time that a system is introduced in which women also have access to an army. Almost all Western European countries already have such a system. There are also a large number of system-related provisions, which on the one hand allow for equality, but on the other hand also contain certain system-related differentiations. It's the same thing in this case. I am pleased that women will be in the future, starting from 1. In January of next year, access to all military functions in all military areas will have access to them, that they will be equal to men, officers or officers, and that they will also be able to provide the army with their abilities and inclinations accordingly. I expect a further improvement in the performance of our army. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the beginning, this discussion was marked by the fact that the idea of introducing a compulsory obligation for women on the way down was assumed. There is no such thing throughout Europe. There is a duty of military service for men and voluntary access to the army for women in most countries of Europe. But with us one has pretended that for the first time, as if one had to invent it! It is as if we should really start with zero in this debate. But it was not so, but we can use models and say that women in the army must, of course, have the same rights and the same duties as men. Of course, women must be able to take up this profession as much as men can. I would also like to stress that there are no special privileges or anything else, which is, of course, already normized in other laws, such as the Equal Treatment Act. Everything else shall be counted in the same way and shall be considered as a scale in the same way. Ladies and gentlemen! In the discussion, it further became apparent that it was considered whether women at all had the ability to perform certain services, to exercise certain military functions. If one thinks that in certain areas, for example in the field of health care, in the telecommunications sector, but also in civil life, nearly 80, 90 percent of these functions are carried out by women, one can only be surprised that women wanted to be denied access to the army and that they did not want to allow these activities in the military field in particular. The fact that with all possible arguments – almost I would have said: with all the "maids" – it was intended to prevent women from reaching this access and taking up a career with equal rights is obviously one of the typical patterns of such a discussion. But now it is now, and that is also within the scheduled time. We have already said quite a while ago: ==References== Next year, women are expected to have this free access to the army. – The relevant preparations are already under way. There are over 400 applications of women who are interested in serving the Federal Army and they will be able to take up this service in accordance with the same strict rules, investigations and inspections, or to take up a career in the army as men. No more and no less, no better and no worse than the men! The essential thing is that we offer the opportunity, in today's society, of course, that we can, of course, create all the conditions for women to exercise their functions. It will take a while for the first woman to complete the military academy – after a multi-year training course, just like all other officers. The same applies to the Army Sub-Official Academy and other institutions of the army. But the way will be open, and he was marked by the fact that a group of women have not been prevented from fighting for their own right, to assert themselves and to go this way, even by so-called representatives of their own sex. I was very happy to support this path because I believe it is necessary to give every person the opportunity to shape his life according to his abilities and inclinations – and not to exclude him from the beginning. I am pleased because I have also been able to tell other armies how committed women are if they have decided to pursue such a profession. Women will also be able to cancel this profession just as men, as professional officers can do today, will, of course, also be able to do so on the same legal basis. The only difference is that men start their career in the army due to compulsory military service in Austria, while women do so on the basis of voluntaryity. We will do everything we can to ensure that women can not only be properly integrated into the Austrian federal army, but that this will be a matter of course in a few years, as in the American, Belgian or German armies. In Germany, too, access for women is limited to certain areas, just as we have so far excluded access to the militia, and also in the Swiss army there are only very specific areas that are accessible to women. There are a number of countries in which such restrictions exist. In other words, Austria does not in any way differ negatively from the other countries, but quite the contrary: We offer even more opportunities than most other countries. That is what we want and will enforce with all consequence, just as the women have succeeded in pursuing the objective of opening up the Austrian army and thus the field of security for Austria's women for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4890	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4912	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A few brief remarks. Firstly, following the statements made by the Federal Minister, it was remembered how difficult the path from Gabriele Possanner to the Women's Education Act was indeed. It was about refusing access to the profession. Following the desire of Possanner at the time, a high-level representative of the high schools asked: Where are we going if women wanted to become doctors, lawyers, general women and priests?- Oh, my God! – Minister of State! They have contributed one step to the fact that we have fulfilled point one, two and three – four not yet, there is another responsibility! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shöggl: Bishops!]] Just a short while to the previous speakers of the opposition parties, especially Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander, who has already withdrawn from this debate. I do not think it is very courageous to reject the federal army, but here to do as if this government template were to complain of this law, just not "I reject it in principle!" to have to say. I don't think it's very courageous. And something else: I do not expect the German army to become a cuddly pedagogical, group-dynamic seminar with the entry of women very soon. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Rather, we are facing a long process of transformation from the army to a genuine professional organization. – So much to say. To sum up, I can say: I am pleased that Austria, in the concert with European and other forces, is now also allowing women access to the army as a professional opportunity and not as a military obligation, and is thus demarcating themselves, for example, from the model Germany, where women are admitted to music and health services, mainly Sanity and little music; I have asked myself – and from Israel, where there is a mandatory military service for women. Austria is moving at European level. I think our path is a good one and, Mrs Mag. Kammerlander, mainly also recommended in the Micewski study. [[The speaker keeps a book up to date.]] I do not know whether, in view of the short speaking time, I will still be able to read to you the relevant passage. I also wonder: What is another chance or need for women? – We are facing other threat scenarios today when they were given a short time ago. "The situation is marked" – to talk to Micewski, the study author – "no longer through a potential confrontation of two antagonistic military block systems, but" – I quote – "many unstable zones and conflict regions, so that we can talk about multidimensional challenges and diversified threat spectra." – End of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This opens up the opportunity for women to work with all their competence in these threats, in the analysis, in the development of strategies, and in the safeguarding of civil and environmental living grounds. I am convinced that there are women who are in some way in the pitfalls and will take this professional opportunity. That they can do this at the voluntary level and that they can get out of this professional relationship, as well as from the Federal Service at any time, that is no problem for the professional organisation – in the direction of FPÖ. Just think of the police, there's the same thing: Women can also leave a federal service there at any time. What I particularly like as an educational politician is the aspect of lifelong learning. Women who are already working in the Ministry of Defence can so to speak cross-border and change their job in this way. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we must stimulate the information about this because the interested parties have to report by the end of 1998 in order to make use of this offer and then to be able to obtain the corresponding reward. Ladies and gentlemen! Maria Rauch-Kallat, Rosemarie Bauer, Edeltraud Gatterer and other ÖVP women have briefly tried themselves in the field as soldiers. They have gained experience and reported it very seriously and honestly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] President. — The next item is the report (Doc. I thank you for that. Women who want to use it now have a chance to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e4983	The next speaker is Mrs Applebeck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5005	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Today we find the woman in the public life of Austria equal everywhere next to the man, only not in the Austrian federal army, at least not so far. The integration into economic life has therefore taken place because our economy without the "work force" woman could not fulfil her task. Only the Austrian federal army has so far been able to give up women. If we put the image of the working woman in relation to the man, we can see that the woman is fully recognized by the men both as a subordinate and as a superior because of her achievements. The Austrian federal army was able or wanted to give up on us women so far. Only the fact that there are too few male candidates for the federal army is due to the fact that the gates of the federal army are now also open to women. But how do these gates open? – Women, for example, are denied military activity. Valuable training time and taxpayers' money are lost, so we will make an amendment in this regard. We liberals have always been for women in the Federal Army, as we have always been to our army! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This cannot be said by all the political groups here in the House. We liberals, for example, have already sent women to the National Defence Committee at a time when the women of the SPÖ were still thinking about the sensibleness of our army. For example, my group has sent me as the only and first woman in Austria to an aircraft carrier. I ask you: Where were the women of the other parties then? – You were not allowed to because the men had the lead there! Ladies and gentlemen! Almost all armies in the world have women's troops. They sit on the skillful hand of the woman, they sit on the watchful mind of the woman, and they rely on her reliability! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Only Austria could so far afford to refrain from the use of women within the federal army. Switzerland, Sweden and Denmark are particularly concerned about their wives. [[Abg. Leikam: The Austrians too!]] Mr President, I should like to thank This has not been the case for a long time, but it is only now that we are trying for women in Austria, but also because we have too few men. That's why we're allowed to jump women in now! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the United States, female soldiers have been in the hands of the three subcommittees since 1948. There is no obligation or obligation to serve women in the United States: Women serve voluntarily, in peace as in war. They do not enjoy any special rights in the service. They are, according to their rank and position, superiors or subordinates of their male comrades. They have the same grade marks, the same salary, the same equipment and care as the men. We need to reserve our own posts for women. We liberals are for equal rights and obligations, which apply equally to men and women. The condition of admission in the United States is the certificate of a higher school, which I personally feel is entirely correct. We too should introduce a school education as a minimum requirement for admission, namely for men and women. Also in England, professional soldiers have been serving on time since 1946. In addition to the regular armed forces, England has two spare organizations: the territorial army and the army emergency reserve, including women. Only Austria abandons women as soldiers. Sweden and Denmark even have their own female pilot corps since 1953. Israel is the only country – Mrs. Brinek has already mentioned this – which has introduced the general obligation for women, with an active period of two years and the obligation to do so until 35. In addition to serving at least 12 days a year. In summary, it is to be said: Modern armies can no longer give up on women, nor can the Austrian federal army. Women have the ability – after appropriate training – to take on a variety of tasks. This will also happen in the near future and should finally be recognized by the Austrian Federal Army. However, I believe that the use of women on a voluntary basis is essential. Mrs Kammerlander! To your question why there are only eleven female generals in the USA: The admission conditions for women in the U.S. Army require that one must be unmarried and childless. In addition, in the event of a pregnancy, one will be released from the army – of course, in full honor. There is God with us thanks to the Mother Protection, but the USA puts the woman, the mother, the family in front of the army. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I shall make the request mentioned above. It says:
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5121	The amendment just tabled by Mrs Applebeck has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, has been sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker, Mrs Hlavac, spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5146	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a small group of women who, for various reasons, expressed great interest in making a career with the German army. These are especially those women who are already working in the field of national defence. It is often the case that they hold a post of service, which was originally a military one. But since there were too few men who could take over these tasks, these posts have been turned into civilians and could then be taken over by women. It is understandable that these women want to make a career with the federal army, and we will allow them to do so. However, I would also like to mention that there is a lot of scepticism in my group, especially among the female members of my group, in part of the basic pacifist nature, and partly because of the experience in other countries, which shows that there are very serious problems for women in the army to be made very difficult. Cases of sexual harassment, of disadvantages, of harassment, of harassment, of discrimination are constantly being known. It is our aim to ensure that women wishing to take up this career in such a way that they have the best possible legal and practical conditions. Because of these feared difficulties, the Minister for Women and the Minister for Defence has conducted very long, detailed negotiations. I would like to acknowledge that the Minister for Defence has followed the argument of the Minister for Women on many points. So it will allow women to become a professional soldier, but they will not be moved into the military. This is a point that is very controversial. The main reason for us is that we wanted to ensure the absolute voluntaryness of women. It must then, if in reality, show that the ideas were wrong and there is great difficulty in being able to get out of the federal army at any time. I am aware that this may be used as an argument against women. I am already hearing a lot of prejudices, and I believe that this point will also be used as a pretext. However, I am in favour of trying to find out once in practice this arrangement, which has been negotiated between the Minister for Women and the Minister for Defence. It is also intended to ensure that only as many women are admitted to training as in the subsequent period available for taking over. During the training relationship, the Federal Equal Treatment Act applies. This is a provision that is very important to us, and because some believe that it favours women, I would like to point out that the provisions of the Federal Equal Treatment Act apply to all employees in the Federal Service. The purpose is that women should be taken up and promoted for so long as they have reached their corresponding share in equal qualifications. It is also important for women to be open to all military careers and profiles of use. That is not a matter of course. There are armies in which women are used only in a very limited area, such as the health service. But if it is already argued with equal rights, it must actually apply consistently, and we will observe very closely the areas in which women actually find admission and whether they are promoted and promoted accordingly. Federal Minister! They have mentioned that 80 percent of women in the field of health care and telecommunications are also active in the civil sector. I would like to point out that this is the right thing to do and that it is safe areas in which women can work, but we imagine – and I think we agree – that they must be included in all areas. Finally, I would like to point out that we are going to observe very closely what the development is like. You're really in demand, Minister of State. I note that you are very committed to this matter, but it will have to be shown whether women actually get to the extent that it would be planned and desirable for them. In spite of all the concerns and concerns we have, I hope that those women who want a career in the Federal Army will actually get on the move and that their ideas, their wishes and their hopes will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5203	The next speaker is Mr Jung. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5224	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have now listened to Mrs Hlavac, you could directly believe that these women are being sent to enemy abroad, and there she only expects terrible and bad. [[Abg. May. Posch: See USA!]] I'll give you some thought: First of all, these women have been quite informed about the profession that comes to them, second, they voluntarily go to the army. Thirdly, There are a number of women already employed in the Federal Army. In my department, for example, in some areas we even have an overweight weight on women, they feel quite comfortable with us; everything works without major problems. In this respect, I am by no means pessimistic. On Mr Gaál's comments on the voluntary nature of Mr Gaál's speech. They have avoided one of the most embarrassing: They refuse women's real free choice. Why can't a woman who wants to go to the military voluntarily? – They are preoccupied with women in this area, and that is a point I think is in principle wrong. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These women are mature enough to decide, when they have completed their training, whether they want it or not. And that should be admitted to them, for it is a right – just as the Wehrrecht was originally a right of free citizens in this Republic. Now on the content of the law. We assume from the following: A genuine integration of women into the army can only take place if it is based on equal rights for both, but also brings it for both of the same duties. And there is the problem of the fact that, by means of an intervention, most likely from the field of the Ministry of Women, this point cannot be fulfilled, even though the Minister has tried to negate something in this area. After all, how does it look in practice? – Already basic training is completed separately and also under other legal conditions. This is not the case in the armed forces of other countries, whose experience is supposed to have been studied, and is likely to be due to the demand of the Minister of Women. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: USA!]] Another essential point of criticism: After basic training, there is a kind of takeover guarantee for women. This is not for the male needy, and this is an injustice! This safeguard clause does not exist for soldiers, and when I remember last year, we also have to release hundreds of young men from military service in my area, probably hundreds of young men in total, because we could not take over them. There is a clear injustice, which will certainly lead to a friction relationship between the privileged and the disadvantaged in the field of service, and the commanders will have problems, as it is to be balanced. This is a real injustice, and that must also be said. Another difference that I think is wrong is that male citizens have their basic training up to 35. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== That's a pointless destiny! It was deliberately introduced this limit because it is both a question of physical performance and the subsequent useful phase. No one has anything of 40-year-old apprentices in a profession. – In my opinion, this decision was a mistake. One thing that is equally absurd is the possibility of re-introduction in the fast-seated course. This also creates injustices that are already leading to discussions in the framework. A law firm could mutate in its unit to the "spray" – this is a career for which a sub-offer as a Vizeleutnant needs about 15 years. Faith You are not, I ask the SPÖ Members that this is an blatant injustice and that these women not only lack professional experience but also knowledge and knowledge in this profession? This series of examples could continue for a long time. However, I just want to take out a particularly blatant one, that is the question of use in the case of use. In case of use, I can't assume it and I don't assume that the women who come to us, who want it in principle, are decribing a woman from military service. She can go out! She can say goodbye to her battalion commander as a divisional company commander when it comes to the crisis! This is an impossibility, both in terms of planning and others. I would like to conclude by quoting a specialist – I hope the Minister of State does not speak again of a "sub-alternative officer", namely the General Force Inspector, who carried out a report: I do not want to say here that at present there is concern in the Federal Government about whether, instead of female soldiers on the basis of equal training, we are getting page beginners with preference for the occupation of jobs, not because of the intention of those concerned, but because of any other intended purpose, namely equal treatment as a threat to inequality. - Quote. We can join him. With these regulations, Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, give this law and the employment of women a bear service.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5286	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5308	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder spoke in the sense of coalitionary commitment. I too would like to do this, in the direction of Mr Gaál. – Dear colleague Gaál, in coalition: As an insurance employee, I immediately came up with the following example in your comments on the solidarity assistance: It is also not possible to make an insurance if the house is already burning. If one does not have a preparatory insurance, so no solidarity pact, it will be too late to demand solidarity if it is necessary! – That's why the preparations and cooperation. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Young.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The goal is clear – we have talked about it for a long time, discussed it and balanced it –: We're opening the army to women today. I believe that this is a fundamental social policy issue. This law is about actual equality, it is about equal rights, it is about achieving highly qualified positions in the public service and also in the military. It is also a springboard for women for another career, for example, to work abroad and to prove themselves or to be able to earn better earnings. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mrs Mag today. It was said by the Greens that the career was not defined and that no one knew what profession he could pursue and pursue, that is to say: As in all other public services and industries, there is no employment guarantee from entry to the end of the career. From this point of view, the military service can also be seen. However, I would like to point out here that, because I am particularly concerned about this, the Federal Government has taken account of the problem of youth employment and apprenticeship training and has not only used a "male" law, as you have said: Among the 190 apprentices are also female apprentices. There are saddlers, there are office merchants, and there are female apprentices in the physical laboratory. Please note that this is a special achievement of our federal army, our military! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In more than 30 states, women are in the army, of course in uniform – and this up to a few positions and countries on a voluntary basis. We also place great emphasis on voluntaryness and will preserve it. There is no reason at all to question the voluntaryity in any form. One then and when the impression – especially with the Greens – is that the federal army, the state defense, is represented as if they were always moving at the edge of the legality. They speak of rear doors and of Schwindelieen et cetera. I would like to point out that from this point of view! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the bill are in § 2 para. 1 defined the tasks of the Federal Lord. The main issue is, of course, military defence, second, the protection of democratic freedoms, thirdly, the provision of assistance for elementary events and fourthly the provision of assistance abroad: Peacekeeping, humanitarian aid and aid in the event of disasters. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This peacekeeping has a special role to play in Austria. "Partnership for Peace" means working with all of us and doing everything to help in Europe to be peace-making around the world as much as possible. Women can also take on special duties in the German army as soldiers and play a decisive role, as has already been pointed out in several opinions. Both as a uniform in military rank and as a contract staff, women abroad have already demonstrated themselves in a manner that is peaceable, humanitarian and humanitarian. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Women in our federal army certainly mean more prestige and acceptance for the military. However, this also means a further step towards equal treatment and equal opportunities for Austria's women. This law will also result in a qualitative appreciation of our forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5377	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5398	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are discussing today a bill that is new, which is socially unusual and which naturally comes across scepticism or non-Scepticism. However, the basis of this law is already a reality in other sectors, namely a co-operation in the profession. And that's exactly what it's all about: It is about the voluntary training and the voluntary career of women in the army – very different from the military duty and the resulting legal military obligation. It has already been suggested that it will be difficult for women to be in the army and to quit the ministry all of a sudden. I mean, it's a challenge for every commander to ensure optimal conditions for optimal motivation. I am sure that women who voluntarily take up the military career do not simply leave their service. That would have been said here once. A very important point, which has already been discussed negatively, is the follow-up career. It was criticised that women were given the opportunity to get into certain positions relatively quickly without having the necessary experience in the army. To this end, I would like to say: Do not forget that women have been in civilian use in the army for many years. Who says, then, that these women do not bring with them the same conditions when they have completed the resurgence career, like a man who has been in the army for many years and is in service there? – I think it was necessary that this follow-up career was created and that women can also use this follow-up career. [[Call:No idea]] If it was said that it was not a new job, then in part it might already be true, but I would explain it differently. I would say that it is the opening to male service uses so far. The Minister has already said that there are applications, but of course one will have to be very precise in the selection procedure. A few will be able to get in. All others, however, do so voluntarily – and you must not overlook that. There is no service obligation in the sense that someone has to go, but it is simply voluntary. Some choose this course voluntarily. Mr Moser said that the women would only have limited acceptance in the army. – Mr Moser, go to Visoko, talk to Commander Rappaz – that is the one who has our SFOR quota – what he thinks is having a doctor there in peace. Do you know what he told me? – This woman is an enrichment for our team! – So, please, you should see that, but not always devaluing it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I mean, my colleague, Women increase the power of the army by providing motivation and a level playing within the force. A word about the law on women's training in the army and the step towards NATO suitability, which Mrs Kammerlander has spoken about. Mrs Kammerlander, I must say that there is already peace talks with women. This is also not a step in NATO, but it is a very important, essential measure that Austria sets out in the context of peace-building and peacekeeping opportunities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5439	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5460	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After listening to this debate, I must say: I'm honestly touched. I am really touched by how many colleagues – emphasis on colleagues – think here in the House about equal rights for women, about career planning, about career careers, about careers and about disadvantages. I'm really touched. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You know: half/half!]] It is truly remarkable with which the Federal Minister for the Defence of Women is working. It is, above all, so remarkable because he belongs to the party of the National Council which has the lowest female share of members in the House. Minister of State Defense and ÖAAB-Obmann! I don't know if you're also a high-ranking officer in your party, but I assume. I would sincerely like you to work with the same intensity to ensure that women actually get into relevant positions and actually get the appropriate opportunities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister! It is my experience in 39 years as a woman and in seven years here in the National Council that it is actually like this: [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] In bodies where a high proportion of women are involved, there is a completely different work. The climate and handling of bodies, institutions, services, even here in the National Council is quite different when women turn on. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, I believe that this is the only argument I have allowed, and I would also like to say that if you put it before me: that it is the fact that women also create a certain kind of decomposition, climate improvement and less aggressiveness in associations, troops, departments and units of the Federal Army, if they participate there. This is absolutely justified, and that is exactly the experience we have gained from the use of women in the police, in which security executives as a whole. The potential for aggression within these units has fallen. Women are depressing in the real sense. Federal Minister! If, however, a few ladies today, but above all some gentlemen here, I want to know that this law, which is now voting, actually has something to do with careers of women, then, please, I do not know what you are talking about and what I am voting for. What does it have to do with a career of women if one can voluntarily subordinate to military drill, military discipline and military criminal regime for a year – and after a year of this voluntary subordinate, it says: Well, but the possibility of actually taking up a career for the entire life and thus a career is on a completely different sheet? Federal Minister! It really has nothing to do with the reality of the disadvantage of women, as it exists in certain sectors of the world of work, that we are now planning such a year. I do not want to devalue at all those women who have the honest desire to complete this one-year training. I too have heard of it first and, secondly, I have often received enough such interventions. This is something I appreciate and do not want to reduce, but it has nothing to do with careers, equal rights and the same career opportunities. If I consider what is now to be voted on and what is the basis for everything that will happen later, I really wonder if it is actually not true what Mr Brigadier Young said here a few minutes ago. Is he not really right with his statement, which is really the result of what I have received over the centuries-old environment of machinistic thinking, which has been developed in the armies and forces of the world? I wonder if he is actually right with his criticism, which comes from a completely different direction than mine, and if he is not really right when he criticizes that the matter with the resurgence career is unfair. Because there are officers who have to be subordinated for 15 years in order to get to a position. But then the Federal Minister comes and creates one – these are his words – fast-seated course of 18 months for women. There might be a few men in danger of losing 15 years when it comes to getting into the same position. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a question of training!]] Federal Minister! You see that this law has numerous facets. It always depends on how you see it. Do you see and evaluate this law from the perspective of self-confident women with a feminist look, or do you see it with the gaze of a military member who has a masculine view of a army that has a strongly influenced opinion – not to say "machist" now? – The spectrum is very, very far. Mrs. Apfelbeck has given us the very best example of why this has so little to do with emancipation and equality, namely the example with the general women from the USA: Among 1,918 generals there are only eleven female. It was founded on motherhood, pregnancy and automatic excretion from the army by such, under quotation marks, "events". What, please, does this somehow have to do with equality when someone becomes pregnant loses the entire career and even the basis of existence? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: They confuse America with Austria!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I say quite frankly to you: For many years, equality, equal opportunities and the representation of women have been an honest concern not only because I am a woman but also because I see myself as a people's representative in a sense as a lobbyist for this group of Austrian people who are most numerous but in many cases inferior. But on the day – I have not checked it and I do not believe you, Mr. Federal Minister – on which it is for the hundredth time that the first female physician has received his doctorate in Austria, on the anniversary of the events of this delicate, actually derisory law and to compare it with such a fundamental event as the promotion of the first woman to the doctor of the entire medicine: That, Mr Federal Minister, already shows me what a horizon you have in assessing careers, equal treatment and emancipation of women in our society today. Federal Minister! I have to tell you: Not only will I reject the law, but I am honestly disappointed as a woman by your – also as an employee’s representative – close horizon on the assessment of equal opportunities in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5564	I call Mr Amon. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5585	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was again clear in Mrs Stoisits' speech today that the Greens do not really know how to deal with the subject and how to deal with the German army. On the one hand, you don't want the federal army, but don't trust yourself to say this clearly. That's why you don't want the women in the federal army either. Because it is really not true what you are saying here: that this federal law does not open up the possibility for some women to make a career. Of course, this federal law opens up a number of women the opportunity to make careers. Please note! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Stoisits! They criticise on the one hand that this federal law would not open up this career opportunity, but on the other hand you criticize that under this federal law, women who were already on military service can recapitulate the career within 18 months. So you have to decide what you are for: Are you in favour of women in the army being able to make this career, or are you, in principle, against the Federal Army? In the discussion about this Federal Law on the Training of Women in the Federal Army there were two variants of thought. One option is to say that all previous rights and obligations based on voluntaryity are transferred more or less one to one also to women. This means that they are being completely transferred to them. We have taken quite account of the objections and fears that, in my opinion unfounded, were present, namely that we would try to introduce some kind of general military obligation for women through the back door. That is why all these objections have been taken into account accordingly. I personally regret that it is not possible for women to make an appropriate career in the field of militia. But obviously our coalition partner didn't want to. But I would like to say very clearly that, of course, it corresponds to today's self-confidence and to today's self-understanding of young women, that it is also the Austrian federal army. It would also be very bad advice to a society if it would voluntarily refrain from more than 50 percent of the intellectual potential that a country has. That is why this federal law is also a good federal law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Kammerlander! Even if you're not there at the moment: I have the impression that you are a little traumatized by the NATO discussion, because in this law – with all the cross-references, for example, to the Entrepreneurship Act – you see the accession to NATO through the back door, that really does not have any basis. [[Abg. Steibl: That's right!]] You know as well as I do that the Entrepreneur's Act is, of course, based on UN conventions and UN decisions on peacekeeping, peace-keeping operations and no NATO discussion at all. I ask you about the Greens: Why do you want to fail women who want to make a voluntary contribution to peacekeeping? On the other hand, Mr Jung criticises that there is no absolute and total commitment for women in all areas. If we look at all the criticisms of opposition, on the one hand, at the criticism of the liberals who say that everything goes too far and we have done far too little in this federal law, and on the other hand the criticism of the Greens who say that everything is bad because it goes far too far, then we are very well in the political centre with this decision. This is undoubtedly a good position, and this is also in line with the study of the National Defence Academy, in which it is said: In principle, both military and social matters seem to be useful and recommended.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5635	There is now another speech by Mrs Petrovic. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5656	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is amazing which arguments and motives a minister of the ÖVP brings into the debate if he wants to achieve something here. In this debate, we have the impression that the Minister of Defence has now become the country's first fighter in feminism. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] I'm glad to hear from the ÖVP. I hope that he will also stand by you in the club in such a way that the 50 per cent tax burden for women will finally be reached. The Minister of Defense has addressed Gabriele von Possanner and has said that it is now becoming serious with the equal rights of women in the Austrian federal army. I am pleased if the feminist movement in Austria has won another co-compatriot, only I have my doubts, Minister of State. I am really very excited about these demands from the ÖVP side, as the Members of the Socialist Group, in particular, appreciate these arguments and how they will vote or how Mrs Fekter will vote, as she was also concerned by this law. Federal Minister! I would like to express my doubts to you once again. They have addressed Gabriele von Possanner, a truly imposing woman who has succeeded and made an academic career. Only: 100 years later, with the achievement of feminist goals at universities, it looks sad: not 5 percent female professors. Not even 5 percent, Minister of State! If you paint the equal rights in the army in bright colors and already announce to us that next time the generals will sit here on the official bank, I ask you, Federal Minister: [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Fischer.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: General!]] Why don't you support us in your numerous important functions and within the Federal Government a little more with the equal rights of women at universities – 100 years after Gabriele von Possanner? Federal Minister! Why has just gone? Your group agrees with and pushed forward the many cuts in the university sector, which are at the expense of women. Why does your group stand for tuition fees, which you know will continue to reduce the proportion of women in universities, and the question of who is worth studying for – for the son or for the daughter – will be further updated? Federal Minister! This is a somewhat one-sided understanding of equality and equality when you bring Gabriele von Possanner here as a symbolic figure into the discussion, but your group in this area is doing exactly the opposite. Or, Minister of State, I ask you: What is the group's position on the Minister for Family Affairs, and what group has agreed that the "Kindergarten Billion" has been melted together? What group has agreed that the second year of karenz has de facto been halved? I would have expected the chief advocate of feminism to be on the side of women. That only now, 100 years after a woman received his doctorate as a doctor of the entire medicine, women are supposed to learn to deal with killing weapons, I don't know if this is the sign that the feminists really expected. Ladies and gentlemen! I also ask the interlocutor in the matter of feminism, like his group and how he personally holds it with the full equality of women in the federal constitution, so that we finally in Article 7 do not anchor a nebulous equality before the law, but the duty of the state to achieve equality by passing laws. I do not know, Mr Federal Minister, whether, in view of your historical commitment to the feminist goals today, you will now also be working within your group to ensure that full equality is enshrined in the Constitution, or whether this was not a rhetorical art grip that you used here. Federal Minister! I'm asking you, too. Why are they? You then remained so halfhearted about this law if you are so serious about the equality of women at all hierarchical levels? Do you really think it is appropriate to open up these careers that a woman in the future – whether "wife" can believe it or not – can become a corporal or a watchman or a head man? That's remarkable. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And one last very serious argument in the direction of the Socialist Group and also in your address, Mrs Bauer, regarding the so-called voluntary nature. I have looked very closely at these otherwise also amended laws and was very amazed, and I would expect to be informed by the Members of the Socialist Group: What about the voluntary nature if you do not make a change in unemployment insurance law, if it is alleged that – the Federal Minister and Mr Amon have just indicated – a full career for women is opened up, but nothing is changed in unemployment insurance law? Do you know what happens to the so-called voluntaryity? In times when the willingness to work is very carefully examined? In fact, if there is this career for women, a woman who is not willing to take this career career, to provide these voluntary services, namely a unemployed woman, a woman who is in need of emergency aid, will simply be removed from this state service. There's no voluntaryity. And in small communities, where the only larger worker is perhaps a barracks, you can write down the voluntaryity somewhere that does not take place, for purely economic reasons it does not take place. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where to?]] There will be a financial pressure here, as it is already being applied to many unemployed women today. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is an eye-catching in the matter of feminism, it is an increase in feminist goals, and it has nothing to do with voluntaryity in times of this workplace situation!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5728	Mrs Rauch-Kallat has now spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5749	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Petrovic! Your hypocrisy is truly boundless! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If a party that has massively supported the first demand of the women's people's desire, has said: Companies can only receive public promotions and public contracts if, in all areas, women are represented at 50 percent – that is what you have made your goal – but with regard to women in the federal army, this means that you obviously have more importance for women in asphalt animals than the German army. Tell me you're against the federal army! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We of the ÖVP believe that women in the German army should have the possibility of a career, and we are also convinced that women in the German army will greatly improve this federal army because both elements are present. But what you are doing here is to support, on the one hand, the demand of the women's people's desire, that women have access to all areas, but on the other hand, to act against women in the federal army, that is hypocritical!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5794	There is no more word message for this. I therefore conclude the debate. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. - I ask you to take the seats. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1037 of the supplements. Mr Applebeck and Mr Comrades have tabled supplementary and amending proposals. Mr Jung has asked for a separate vote. I am therefore going to vote on the parts concerned by the requests for separate vote, or on the basis of the legislative text, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. This draft law contains constitutional laws as well as constitutional provisions, and I therefore first define, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I also point out that in the sense of § 66 para. In the vote on Rule 1 and the third reading, 3 were requested to announce the votes against and against. That is to say, I have to count the votes, and I therefore request Mrs Reitsamer and Mr Auer as a writer to support me in the enumeration. We are the first to vote on Article 1 as amended by the Committee's report, and to hold the votes against and against. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of Rule 1 as part of the Committee's report to give a sign of approval. . I announce that the vote on Rule 1 154 and 8 votes against were taken. This part has therefore been accepted by the majority, with the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution. I shall now vote on Rule 2 as amended by the Committee's report and seek out those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it for a positive sign. – This Article 2 has been adopted by a majority, with a view to establishing the existence of the constitutional quota, the two-thirds majority. Members of the Apfelbeck and Comrades have submitted an additional request, which refers to Article 3 Z1 Table of Contents and Z 23 § 46d. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. In addition, Members of Parliament have an amendment concerning Article 3 Z 16 § 32 para. 1 introduced. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report and ask for an appropriate sign if it is approved. – This is accepted by the majority. The Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to the Rules of Procedure laid down in Article 3 Z 23 and to Article 3 Z 32. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report and seek out a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. - That's the majority. This part is generally accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3 Z 38, as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be an appropriate sign. – This part has been accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. I would like to point out the fact that the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution are present. We shall come to the third reading immediately, and I would draw attention to the fact that the announcement of votes against and against has been requested here too. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. . I announce that 117 votes in favour and 45 votes against were cast at third reading. The draft has thus been adopted at third reading, with the presence of the two-thirds majority required for the constitution. 2. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the Nightwork of Women (1010 of Supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 451/A by Mrs Maria Schaffenrathund Comrades on a federal law which repeals the Federal Law on the Nightwork of Women (1011 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5927	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Gaugg, the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e5954	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are discussing today a proposal which provides for the abolition of the ban on night work for women. And as in many areas of the political work of the government coalition, we are also discussing this measure at a very late date. As early as 1989, freedom of movement had already been introduced into the Chamber's plenary sessions, which had provided for equal treatment for women and men. This demand was always rejected by the Socialist Group as something inappropriate, knowing that there are thousands of women in Austria who, of course, provide night services, Saturday and Sunday services in many sectors. This is the case in the field of health, executive, transport and many other areas. Here night work was absolutely necessary for women, but wherever this regulation would have worked, it was constantly hampered and prevented by the SPÖ. They have the internationalization that completely sleeps globalisation. They have not recognized the need for equal treatment in order to ensure a gender-neutral employment policy in Austria. And you are only prepared under the pressure of the European Union to decide on a transitional arrangement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This transitional arrangement states in itself: If, at the time of the introduction of this transitional arrangement, as you call it, Mr Feurstein states in a broadcast that it is not an optimal solution, then it is once again significant for the quality of the work done here by the government coalition. This is once again a typical Austrian solution, a so-called lazy compromise, because one from the EU to the 1st. January 2002 does not immediately implement mandatory law – for God's sake, that would be the first time in Austria! – because we do not take into account the content required, namely the gender-neutral employment of men and women, already before that date. They always do something under pressure, and then, in part, this happens contemptuously. For which businesses do you want to do it now? First of all for businesses like AT & S in the Styria, where the gross hourly wage is 85 S. Do you know what that is? – Awesome of human beings! You should be aware of your responsibility. If you think people are working at night, they should also be rewarded accordingly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A corresponding reward is the prerequisite for a decent existence, whether it be a man or a woman. One cannot make a watered-down template which, under the pressure of the coalition partner ÖVP, contains almost nothing. If you want to regulate all of this at a collective contractual level and in business agreements, then this is the right approach, but you need to do so, a corresponding legalisation of the night work of women. To do that, you missed it. I do not understand that Mrs Hostasch is in agreement with this proposal today. She herself made a request a year ago, which I personally like much better, because this request by Nuremberger, Vergestnich, Hostasch already contains those points that the EU has to make on 1 January. January 2002 prescribing. I would have liked this request much better because it is not only a financial one but also a time-limit for night work. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And this is simply necessary, because no one will argue that night work is health-related. You have repeatedly missed a corresponding scheme and so many thousands of jobs are not allowed. Only now, after long efforts, could you get through to do something in this area. The application itself – with the exception of the fact that this is to be resolved by collective agreements; that is quite logical – is completely incomprehensible in many areas. [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] That's how it says: "The right to reposition may be exercised in the event of a proven health risk." Now I'm wondering, How do I prove this, and who determines what is harmful to health and what is not? One also reads: "according to the operational possibilities". What does that mean again? Who's gonna fix that? Who says that? Who's offering me? "No one can be forced," says the paper, because law must not be. And finally, it says: "There are appropriate compensatory measures for mitigating or compensating" – what now: to alleviate or to compensate? – "fix". The reasons are rather adventurous. This whole presentation proves that you have huge social deficits in your policy. Huge Social Deficiencies! [[Abg. Steibl: And you have no deficits?]] We have been told over many years that the Austrian social partners are exemplary in Europe. That's the proof now: You do not even comply with the EU directives again! Not even the EU directives will be fulfilled in the field of gender equality, if this is decided as envisaged here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to ask you one thing very clearly – and this is especially addressed to the address of the Social Democrats: Is there only one working social partnership in Austria when it is at the expense of workers? This question has to be addressed, because all that has been decided here in recent months has been the sole burden of Austrian workers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is discussed in detail that there must be compensatory measures. These are time supplements, additional vacations and additional rest breaks. And now I'm asking, Why can't you sum up all these things in a law that is valid for all, so that the individual company – of course you need the operating agreement on it – doesn't have to beat around, what is good for him and what doesn't? We need the same basic legal right for all. And if there is a need to provide childcare facilities in here, I must say: It doesn't even work today. With the changed shop opening times, you have not kept pace with the childcare facilities. And now you want to set up childcare facilities in a separate regulation. That's what laws belong to! The same applies to suitable transport from and to the workplace. They are no longer in a position to maintain a corresponding commuting service for workers. So how do you want to do this in the individual professional sectors that will perhaps regulate this collectively contractually? Ladies and gentlemen! All this is really amazing. There is a coalition against better knowledge and against good will. That's reality. In reality, only one law should have been passed here today. In far-reaching areas, the liberals agree with the request made by the Federal Minister and former honourable Member Hostasch, together with Nuremberger and Vergestnich.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6031	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6052	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since we are dealing with a social policy issue which is part of the trade union and collective treaty policy, I should like to refer, without abuse of the Rules of Procedure, to a debate by the honourable Member, Mr President, yesterday on the urgent occasion of the urgent reference which is appropriate. In the first place, I can say that, as so often in the case of statements made by representatives of the FPÖ, the truth is not being taken exactly with the truth. [[Abg. Blünegger: Neither do the Socialists!]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in connection with the situation of the steel industry in Styria, I would have appeared on television two months later, to say that we had forgotten something in this area. I ask that I prove when I appeared on television, because I can't remember it. Secondly, he said that there would have been two thirds of the benefits for workers where freedom-based works councils had been responsible for flexibilization models. I would like to know where there are these flexibilization models in which you have contributed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Finally, he said a very special sentence: On the contrary, we have thought a lot, we have thought very progressively, but we may have been ahead of time many times. - I'm still talking about this point. [[Call the Freeman: Save from the night work!]] Then it goes on. He claims that two years ago you have been in favour of a flexibilization model. I remember: For four years the trade unions have been demanding this! And then he celebrates the flexibilization model decided by the metal workers and says that he had already taken action two years ago. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about your waiver?]] I remember – you can read it in the minutes –: After the metallurgists decided on this flexibilization model in the previous year, there was a debate here immediately. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You've been the first to demand a wage ban!]] Mr Haider! You've been here and you've filled up Kubel with dirt on my colleague Vergestnich and poured me out. And Mr Prinzhorn gave an interview on television, in which he said that he was actually the guardian of the Victor Adler's idea. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday he claimed that he had already intervened two years ago for what the metallurgists had done. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We are the better social politicians!]] Let's go to the left, let's go to the right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in his place significant) The Victor Adler sat here today!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] - Listen and don't get nervous! Now we come to that sentence after which you are ahead of time. I have to give you that right. On one point you are far ahead of all Austrian trade unions of time. You even have the privilege of being ahead of all the world's trade unions on this point. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Well, well!]] It's still coming; you're really ahead of time. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: In the absence of wages you're ahead!]] You will continue to do this for decades, namely, when it comes to sending letters of bet - letter, newsletters to employers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] It is you who, as the trade union leader of the liberals, writes to employers, please use the accompanying cover and pay their donation. [[Abg. Gaugg: Nuremberger! Forced inseracy in your paper!]] Do you really believe that employers today are so unskillable to pay the lawyer you're going to sue with? Should the employers finance your strike fund you don't have? Dear colleague Gaugg! Don't wake up! I'll tell you one thing: If I came to the situation to have to write such bet letters to employers that they donate money, then I would withdraw from my function, buy me a one-way ticket to Australia and hide there at the rear corner. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Forced! That's the difference! Voluntary and compulsive!]] If I were a trade unionist, I would beg for donations, ladies and gentlemen, to beg for donations. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Now you're getting nervous because you're not putting up with the truth! In addition, the Head of Parliament has said that the division of the interests of workers and employers has never brought anything to anyone. So that workers and employers are sitting in the joint boat, we know that since 1945. To do this, we do not need Mr. Head to tell us that. But there is a difference: Although we are sitting in the joint boat, it is certainly not the case that the workers are rowing and the employers are on the sun deck, but either rowing both or both are on the sun deck. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But that we are sitting in the joint boat, we know that. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're demanding a pay-off!]] I've never asked for a wage ban in my life. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Sure! I've proved it to you!]] Other trade unions would be happy if they could reach such degrees as we have achieved in recent years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few comments on this novel, on the ban on night work for women. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is, there are a large number of women who want to work personally during the night for various reasons. In addition, it is necessary here or there to maintain the cost-effectiveness of our businesses. We therefore welcome today's authorization that in the future, the collective contractual partners will be able to continue to work through the instruments of the collective agreement, and even further, because one can cut it specifically to the individual holding, by means of the instrument of the works agreement, enabling women to rework. So that there are no wrong ideas there or there on the employer side: We are going to see in these agreements that absolute voluntaryness exists. Childcare and driving opportunities as a matter of safety and the possibility of return to daywork, if necessary, must be given. Since Mrs Tichy-Schreder, whom I so much appreciate, is sitting before me as a top representative of the Austrian economy, I address the following to her address – you certainly know what is to come, but I still say it to the public, so that there is no false idea about it either –: At a zero rate, there will be no such thing! Just as there has been no Sunday work at zero rate, as there has been no flexibilization at zero rate, there will only be night work for women in the future if their rights are secured and if financial benefits are seen for them. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's clear anyway!]] I thank you, Mr Klubobmann, for emphasizing this. So: At zero rate, there will certainly be no night work!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6321	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6342	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can refer very briefly to Mr Nürnberger. I mean, it sounds good when you say that with the zero rate, but who demanded it? First: Who requested that work at zero rate during the night? Secondly, Who has called for the night to possibly be misplaced under labour law? No one asked. This is a positive defensive attitude, which serves only to act as if the people who believe that at last there is a need for equal treatment for men and women in employment law at night are of the opinion that the zero rate means. Show me a farm that is on shift today, for example steel workers, where night is no different than the day. Please show me! There's no mention of that at all. I therefore think that this statement is simply too cheap. A president of a large trade union would not have had to argue in this way. Apart from that now on the matter itself. In the Committee we had several requests, including requests from Mr Vergestnitsch, on the one hand, and Mr Feurstein, on the other. These two applications have been postponed. It is clear from this that the majority of the Committee felt that what it has then decided in the form of a so-called § 27 proposal and what is now the subject of negotiations is not the solution. If one had believed that this was the final solution, these two proposals should not have been postponed. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You weren't there! They have not heard the justification of the adjournment!]] In this case, the majority of the committee was right, because this cannot have been the final solution. It is at least without equality in view of the EU Directive that labour law must be harmonised at night with regard to men and women. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Must be!]] That does not make this request! It only provides for the possibility of harmonised arrangements in collective agreements. But wherever there will not be a collective treaty arrangement – and that will probably have to be possible, otherwise one would not have to accept the collective agreement only as an option – the unfair treatment will continue, one that clearly does not comply with the directives of the European Union. In France, it has also been tried to maintain the one-sided ban on night work for women. The ECJ has made it quite clear: A flat-rate ban on women is not permitted if men are allowed to work very well at night. It's about equal treatment! Once again to my colleague Nürnberger said: It's not about the zero rate! This is by no means contrary to the claim that, of course, special provisions are necessary for the protection of women and motherhood. This is not the subject of night work ban for women. These are other protective circles, and they are not in this context. In addition, I ask: Are you aware here in this House that this law does not at all apply in far-reaching areas of the world of work? There are more than two pages at the beginning of the text of the law on the night work of women on which the exceptions are placed. The ban on night work for women does not apply: in transport, radio, telecommunications, news agencies, in hospitality, in daily newspapers, in music performances, theatre performances, shows, performances and listenabilitys, film recordings, in light theatres, in hospitals, in spas, welfare and care facilities and so on. It also does not apply to servants of the federal government. I'll hold on to this. The law does not apply to all the servants of the federal government. It does not apply to pharmacies, to those who have a leading position in the technical field, to detectives, to workers in the cleaning of rooms and buildings. So it does not apply to the cleaning women in the broadest sense of the word. These are, it seems, not worthy of protection after the division of Mr Nürnberger. It shall not apply to teaching, training, educational and advisory activities. It does not apply, for example, to those operated by the economic promotion institutions and the BFI. Once again an exception in favour of the social partnership educational institutions! Of course, it does not apply to telephone users. It also does not apply to officials working at congresses. - I could read more. So in all these areas it does not apply! There is still a niche, but there is no new regulation there, but it is kindly permitted that this can be defined in the collective agreement. You have to turn it around! It should be allowed and made possible for special arrangements to be made in collective agreements or in business agreements or even within the company. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That would be the right way, because then it would be generally permissible, with the possibility of making it in the form of collective labour law. This would mean, however, that the legislator, the majority of this House, really entrusts the social partners with what is always claimed to be doing, namely developing independent solutions. Thus, the social partners are given a ban from which they may occasionally make an exception. That is the opposite of autonomy and self-reliance! This is the permission to be able to design something from time to time, but otherwise it remains forbidden – according to the good Austrian principle: What we don't want to do, we're going to ban it in general, and then we'll take care of the exceptions. Instead, we should say: We let it be allowed and see that we shape it. This is a significant difference! [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] For these reasons, we believe, what has been discussed in the Committee and what is to be decided today is completely inappropriate to solve the real problem. It ridicules, as it were, the self-designability and the self-responsibility of the actors and actors. It is a tight hold on to what has happened so far. It is not a reform, and it is not an innovative approach. That's a shame!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6404	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6425	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! As a woman, I would like to say in concrete terms whether it is possible to say: We have reached – late, but still – a milestone on our way to equality and equal treatment. The second equal treatment directive of 1976, which dealt with equal treatment in access to employment, vocational training, vocational training and working conditions for women – probably not read by members of the liberals – is based on an obligation by the Member States of the European Community to amend no longer modern national legislation in the field of women's labour protection. It is certainly not true that, as Mr Gaugg claims, this is only at the expense of the workers. Perhaps he has taken up the term "employee" literally, namely the male worker. It may already happen that some worker should now, or must, be assigned to a woman's job. Article 5 of the Equal Treatment Directive states that the application of the principle of equal treatment as regards working conditions must be carried out without discrimination against sex. In Austria, about 163,000 men currently work and the 50,000 female workers work constantly at night. Studies show that evening and night work – not shift work – is increasing. This means that there is an increase in new jobs which have so far been forbidden by the ban on night work. This was the way to pursue exclusion policy in the labour market policy. I believe that it is now time for the 1919 law to come to an end, for example, in Switzerland, Germany and Sweden. I think it is good for collective agreements to allow general exceptions from the ban on women's night work to include both sexes and to establish appropriate compensatory measures. It is necessary to apply compensation measures to both men and women, but the collective agreement must not be limited to providing a mere framework, but it can also contain concrete rules which are in line with the rules applicable to workers. I have here an excerpt from the "Emma", a feminist magazine, from 1991, and there says: End with the double morals! At that time, an archival requirement was met in Germany, and the ban on night work was lifted. That is why I am saying this because it always seems that women are disadvantaged in this regard. It may be that this is the case sometime, but practice shows that there are also women who, thanks to their qualified training, want to determine for themselves the area in which they want to work. For example, it is currently illegal if a chief secretary wants to draw up a project description in the evening or if a computer technician in a bank wants to make certain programming work unusual working hours. That was not legal until now, and it is no exception either. I received a letter from Jörg Martin Willnauer, a well-known artist in Austria, months ago, and he wrote to me that a young woman who applied for a croupier at the casinos of Austria was rejected. There not only money is playful, but you can also earn it legally through work as a croupier. For example, abroad in Marburg, it is very likely that not only men but also women will work as a croupier. There is no such chance in Austria so far. I would just like to point out that it is necessary to do so with a great deal of fingertips and commitment from both sides of the social partners in order to take advantage of this new opportunity. Recently, in the "New Age", which is not a conservative newspaper, women are now also being admitted to the feeding trough from which they have been kept away for some time. I declare what was meant by the fact that women now also have the opportunity to get the same pay in certain sectors as men. Further on in this gloss: Perhaps this has also been a point of great differences in income between men and women. – In this sense I believe that all of us with this novelle are going in the right direction self-esteem.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6479	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6501	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! I can really make it short. We from the Greens strongly reject this regulation. I would also like to tell you why and have been encouraged by the previous debate. Much has been said about the zero rate. There should not be zero tariffs, but, of course, there should be financial charges for them. However, I have something else in mind, Mr Feurstein, Mr Nürnberger and my other colleagues from the Committee. I remember something else. Mrs Steibl! You have just spoken about night work in relation to women of double morals. This double moral is still there. We have always agreed, when it comes to night work, that we do not want it to be facilitated, because it is a risk to health. One cannot simply think away the problem of health hazards in night work. Now I am amazed that we should forget that for a little more money, there are no problems. I read with amazement in the request that there should be a right to be relocated in the event of a serious health risk to a suitable day-to-day work place according to the operational possibilities. – "In line with the operational possibilities and the risk of health" it means that either one has to be quite at risk, or the labour inspector or the labour inspector finds in the voluntary investigation that the person concerned is no longer suitable for night work. To do this, you say: Well, if he or she can't be found, a day work place should be found as far as possible. It's supposed to be the collective contract. But if there is no day-to-day work place, he or she has had a bad time, then he or she is only free to cancel. That must not be possible, ladies and gentlemen, I have already pointed out clearly in the Committee: If you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are too cowardly to state in a corresponding amendment that the legislator is well aware of not only the obligation, but also the need to clearly define health hazards in night work and also to lay down certain rights and obligations and not to give up and to make recommendations to the collective treaty partners to whom they can comply, but not have to, because they are soft, then this is a reason not to accept this request. [[Abg. Meisinger: Gender-neutral!]] Despite the term "sex-neutral", there is a health risk. [[Abg. Meisinger: It's also dangerous for men!]] Of course! I have now not spoken of men, but of a regulation which allows night work for all, although we all agreed that night work is, in principle, dangerous to health, regardless of its specific form. But the provisions that we are supposed to adopt today contain very soft formulations. I expect a legislator to take this problem seriously, saying: Yes, we have to take care of it! We do not want to allow night work to be done as Mr Steibl has now said, namely that everyone should be able to decide independently whether to do night work or not, but that certain conditions must be met. All that was contained in the application for translation, Nuremberg, Hostasch, Kostelka, for example, was correct and important, and that cannot be eliminated. In so far as Mrs Steibl is concerned, this is not a milestone forward, but a milestone towards this request. We will not be involved in this policy of permanently turning back and not wanting to see which problems are associated with these regulations. That is why we will not agree, because this request for any legislative will is lacking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6546	Mrs. Hostasch has been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6567	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe it is undisputed that night work, especially when working hours change, so when day work and night work are constantly changing, brings a special burden on health, a burden on family life, and also a difficult participation in society as a whole. It is therefore necessary that accompanying measures be taken over and over again. But I think it is right not to see every night's work at once, because the concerns in the individual industries, in the individual professions, are very different. I therefore believe that in the past, the legislator has taken a right course if, in principle, he is based on a ban on night work for women, but has taken specific interests into account by means of separate derogations. As a result of negotiations within the European Union and through our EU membership, the following situation has now occurred: We are now faced with an EU directive for a general requirement for a gender-neutral night work scheme. It is certainly our common will and our shared responsibility to find an overall solution. We have been granted a period until 2001 for the introduction of this scheme. I therefore believe that it is important to gain further experience with the current night work law for women in order to know what form a future general legislation should have for a gender-neutral night work law. It is a fact that a general political consensus could be reached on the proposals and requests which have been in the House for some time, not on those of the opposition parties, nor on those of the two government parties. I therefore believe that it has been very important that we have taken another step towards a future overall solution. During the pre-negotiations and last but not least in the negotiations in the Social Committee, we have continued the way that we have already taken in the field of working time policy in other areas, namely the competence, the responsibility of the social partners, that is, those who can more comprehensive, even more concrete, even more detailed, and assess the framework conditions to be created. On the other hand, it is correct and important that the legislator sets out some principles under which the social partners should make detailed arrangements. These principles have already been referred to in the text of the law. However, I would also like to refer to the reasons contained in this proposal for a law. For example, the legislator points out which compensatory measures are to be applied by the social partners, from time-consuming schemes to longer holidays and other measures. This gives political pre-orientation to the form in which this change of law is to be implemented. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think we can say, on the basis of our experience, that workers' interests can best be reconciled with employers' needs through collective contract policy. I therefore believe that it would have been wrong to take into account a concern of the Liberal Forum that it would have been a general ban on women's night work. Then we would not have had a chance to take action in this direction, as it is controlling, regulating, accompanying and socially motivated. Similarly, in a law that ultimately covers the entire world of work, it is not useful to provide detailed, very specific specifications for those concerned, because it is a difference whether it is a transport undertaking, an industrial undertaking or a service sector. I believe that the collective treaty partners can best assess in what situation what possibilities and what measures are the most appropriate. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that this proposal can be adopted today in the House and I would be pleased if this request were to be accepted because I believe that we could take a further step towards a future orientation. This would create good conditions for further discussion of how the EU Directive, which gives us concrete guidelines, will be integrated into Austrian law after 2001. I would like to conclude, with the request to the social partners, wherever workers, works councils and trade unions recognize the need and the sensibleness of a collective agreement and where the need for such a one exists to deal constructively with each other and, in the sense of the reasons contained in the law, then open negotiations within the meaning of the legislative text. We have thus opened up the opportunity for some women, for some groups in our society, who are interested in working in a particular holding, in a particular area, for this employment. However, it is crucial that compensation measures can be taken in the quality that night work is socially acceptable, not only for women but also for men.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6623	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. The next speech is by Mrs Sophie Bauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6651	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today we decide to abolish the ban on night work. It is important to me, as an employee representative, that this will be possible only because of an agreement in the collective agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! It is certainly a serious difference whether the payment is decisive for the worker concerned who has to do night work. There is a difference as to whether you get a fixed or chord or premium reward in a service company. It is clear to all of us that night work is harmful to health. In our farm, fewer and fewer men want to do night work because they are not only antifamily but also no educational opportunities, so the chances of education are lost. I do otherwise cooperate with my colleague, Mr Steibl, but to believe that everyone can decide for himself whether he wants to work at night or not, that is an error which does not correspond to reality. [[Abg. Steibl: I didn't say that either!]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: She didn't say that!]] No one can decide for himself. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This is a misunderstanding!]] [[Abg. Meisinger: Equal treatment!]] Deputies! In your proposal, there is still a serious difference: You look forward to calling for the ban on night work to be abolished for women, but you do not see any framework conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is the situation in rural areas where the woman does not easily get someone for her child at night and where she still has to travel by public transport? I do not want the employer to drive around all night to bring the women back home or to bring them home. That's a mistake! The practice looks different! – It’s easy for you because you’re not at the base, and therefore you don’t understand. [[Calls and calls to the liberals and to the ÖVP.]] When and where did you once ask for the safety for the woman on the way to work or then on the way home? – That has never been a question to be discussed for you! [[Abg. Haller: You have rejected it! We asked for it!]] For me and for us Social Democrats, it is important to create the necessary framework conditions, including those for childcare, for the rest arrangements, so for everything that belongs to them in order to be able to provide the required benefits. It will only be possible by the collective agreement to do night work.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6751	Mr Haller. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6773	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Once again, attempts are being made to change the Night Labour Act for women, and it is even referred to as a milestone. I can only say: It is at most a domino stone. Once again, it has been proved that the coalition is unable, after many years of discussions – the subject here in Parliament is a permanent burner – to bring about a system for a gender-neutral night work, because this proposal, which you yourself admit, ladies and gentlemen from the government coalition, does not solve the EU problem. You have even agreed to this in the explanatory statement on your legislative amendment. Once again, the government has duly resigned in favour of the social partners. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Meisinger.]] The regulation is far too dirty to prevent dumping in individual sectors – I address this criticism to you, Mr Feurstein. It is also questionable whether it is in line with the principle of legality at all, because it is not determined which conditions are necessary for a collective contractual arrangement. Requests such as 363/A by Vergestnitsch, 406/A by Feurstein and also our freedom of movement 133/A, which we have submitted for the x-th time and which require a gender-neutral regulation, have become maculature. If we go into history now, I think the matter will be more understandable. Since 1844, i.e. since the middle of the last century, the ban on night work for women has been discussed. There was such a ban in the United Kingdom in 1844, Switzerland and the Netherlands followed this example, and Austria followed in 1885. Since then, this ban has existed. The emphasis on this solution was, of course, the goal of protection for women, because there were very inhuman working conditions in the early capitalism. One has even spoken of the extinction of the working class. The rate of infant mortality was very high at the time. It was certainly a partial success of the workers' movement that the night - work ban had come about for women. The second reason – you hear and marvel! At the time, however, it was already that in those times, at a time of poverty and unemployment, men were afraid of their jobs, that men's jobs were threatened by women, and that cheaper women's labour would have reduced wages. There you can shake your head, that's proven! – There have already been female feminists who did not want to have a night-work ban on women because they have classified it as discrimination against women. Since the mid-1980s, I have to hear again and again that it is the women in the ÖGB who once again "lay" the men. I have very little understanding for that. We have had this discussion for 100 years, and you have remained in this discussion. Women can still work where they need them today. There are exceptions which have been created over and over again. They will be protected as far as possible when they do not compete with men, and there may also be very little effect on this amendment, because only the possibility of regulating it by contracts. However, one has repeatedly announced a gender-neutral scheme, has gone out and has spoken of milestones, and there has been only mediocre compromises over and over again. Even today, Mrs Steibl, speaking of milestones, is really dishonest, and you know it very well. I'm now quoting from a report from the "Full Week" of 6. February 1992, in which the Vienna Chamber of Workers Brigitta Mlinek said: "The indecisiveness and helplessness of the government in this 'overly delicate and sensitive thing' cannot be denied". – To this is not to add anything at all today, at the end of 1997. You did a bad job!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6840	Next word: Mr. Dr. Feurstein. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6861	Mr President. Mrs Haller! You have done very hard to justify why you are against this request to oppose this amendment to the ban on night work for women. I also believe that special protection of women is necessary. Not by about this night work ban was also introduced for these reasons at the time. On the other hand, we must see that in recent years a number of women's jobs have not been accessible because there has been this special night work ban. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haller: Make nails with heads, Mr. Feurstein!]] How can we change that? – There are three ways to change this: There is the possibility of a very detailed provision in which to list taxatatively what needs to be fulfilled in order to permit night work for women. The Minister has pointed out, with good reason, that this does not make sense because one has to do differently from one business to another and from one industry to another. The second possibility we have proposed was the conclusion of business agreements and the approval of the respective business agreement, which must take account of the special protection of women, by the Ministry of Social Affairs in the context of labour inspection. This is a way that would be feasible and very useful from my point of view. There is a third way, namely that the parties to the collective agreement take this decision. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say quite clearly: I do not know a collective agreement, Mr Nürnberger, even in your area there is no such collective agreement, according to which this night's work is allowed free of charge. I don't know anyone! I know a number of agreements in my federal state that allow night work for men, but there are always compensatory measures which take health moments very seriously into account. If you, Mr Oellinger, say now that the health problems of those concerned are not taken into account, I must say to you: They're just going past reality! I've got to go. They strongly disagree with you: Of course, they will be taken into account and will have to be taken into account, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For me, there's only one wormhead drop: This is very late. I know a lot of women who did not get a job in 1996 and 1997 because the establishments concerned were not allowed to employ women. For example, I call the company Searchard in Bludenz. But I also call other companies: for example Blum, a company which falls within the competence of Mr Nuremberger. These companies would offer women employment opportunities. I hope that it will succeed, and I am very glad that Mr Nuremberger has made it clear: Of course, we want to provide a certain amount of protection under the collective agreements, but we also want to provide a margin for further action to be taken by businesses, works councils and management. That's very important! [[Abg. Meisinger: The legislator is simply out of responsibility!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I could now present to you such an operating agreement, which is on the table, which is fixed and ready, namely that of the company Suchard in Bludenz, which takes into account the rights and concerns of women in an exemplary way. I very much hope - and therefore I have also made the proposal - that, if it does not come to such a collective agreement very quickly at the all-Austrian level, in my own country the chairman of the ÖGB's National Executive Board will be authorized to enter into a collective agreement with the Vorarlberg Chamber of Commerce so that the company Searchard in 1998 can give women the opportunity to work, to take up jobs, to take up employment. [[Abg. Meisinger: There are twenty other works!]] Now my great wish. I would like to repeat my request – she is covered by Mrs Hostasch's statement, because she has said that she is asking the collective contractual partners to act very quickly. I join this wish and this request for sustainability and expect solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6939	The next speaker is Mr Hums. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e6961	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Night work – that is undisputed – is health, physically more stressful, brings difficulties for family life and social life. I come from a profession with night work and have also done night work myself for many years. That's why you can believe me that I know what I'm talking about. [[Calls and appeals to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is therefore necessary to put in place appropriate measures to compensate for these burdens in order to pay off the higher effort and some of the burden, of course also in the form of financial payments. But that alone can't be it. Health rules are required. There is also a need for rules on what care options for women and men working at night should look like. That is why I consider this bill to be a suitable transitional regulation, because it allows collective agreements on the one hand, but on the other hand requires the law to provide for care, health measures and compensatory measures in these collective agreements. That's crucial! Of course, it would have been useful, as was discussed last year, to make a definitive arrangement, which would have been maintained within the framework of the EU. Mr. Feurstein! Your remark that it is a little late is to be addressed to your own group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: We both would have agreed!]] – We both would have agreed, I believe, and even more were agreed. I've got a press release from the 17th century. October of the previous year. This is not a press release of the Social Minister I was at the time, but a press release of the social partners, the Economic Chamber and the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. ==References====External links==* Official website In October, agreement was reached on the draft night work law with compensation measures between President Mitterbauer, Maderthaner, Vergestnich, Hostasch. This has regulated the care measures, which has regulated a time balance, all of which was included. This agreement, by the way, lies in the Parliament as a request from Mr Hostasch, Mr Nürnberg; I hope that it will be decided once. Only: Unfortunately, this agreement, announced by the social partners, has not received the agreement of the coalition partner. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I hope that it will be the same as with the Working Time Act. For we also had a working time law drawn up last year, it was blocked by the ÖVP for a long time and then decided this day. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: With significant improvements!]] I therefore hope that there will also be a definitive regulation in this area. One thing I expect – also because of the legal mandate – is that there are not only financial charges, but that everything is done to avoid night work where night work is necessary – to also take appropriate compensatory measures – for health and for the whole family life, that more leisure is available. By the way: As the former chairman of the railway union, I would like to say that there is a lot of night work in us, and we were able to reach it a few years ago – according to Swiss example! – that there is a time balance for the period from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. per hour. I do not think that the Swiss think so little economically. That is why I hope that this solution will be possible in the near future too, and I believe that the current legislative change is correct and good for a transitional period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7032	Mr Blünegger, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7053	High house! Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The draft on the federal law on the night work of women, presented by the SPÖ/ÖVP coalition, is, in my view, a flick work and does not include an EU-compliant permanent solution. I have now followed Mr Hums' statement carefully and do not understand the situation in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, I do not understand that there have been no applications in this area by the coalition partner SPÖ, so that this law is not a flickwork, but an EU-compliant law. I have, of course, heard the statements made by Mr Nuremberger today. He spoke less about collective contractual capacity, but he was mainly excited about the colleague's contribution. He said he was surprised by the honourable Member's speech yesterday on the flexibility of working time. He probably did not pay close attention yesterday either, because Mr President-in-Office said clearly and clearly, Mr Nürnberger, that the flexibility of working time should not only go at the expense of the workers. So far, this has unfortunately been the case through this law. This has been said by my colleague, Mr President, and I am defending what he has said. Mr Nürnberger! In flexibility of working time, the benefits provided by the workers should not be pushed forward, but should be paid to them once. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now for polemization, which was also presented by SPÖ members Kurt Wallner from Styria. He writes: Acting instead of polemizing. A final and great success of such a delegation under my leadership, which also belonged to Leoben mayor Dr. Matthias Konrad, the amendment to the law on the ban on night work for women, if the coalition partner and the Federal Chamber of Commerce agree, is practically before the decision. For this region, this would mean 200 new jobs for women at AT&S-Leoben-Hinterberg. What is this, Mr. Deputies? Polemize? – They are going, among other things, with zero performance – since also the AT&S; the AT&S belongs to Dr. Androsch – to house in this circle of social democrats with something that we could have decided for a long time, and then if you had followed the ideas of us liberals regarding the equality of women. [[Abg. Meisinger: Zero performance!]] In the next part of my speech, I would like to refer to the statements made by Mrs Steibl. It has spoken of today's law as a major milestone, but has completely forgotten that EU conformity is missing in this law, although it should exist. That would perhaps be a final law, and we did not need to discuss and discuss it again in committee. Ms. Federal Minister Hostasch said that the EU-wide rules should be implemented in 2001. I have to say, however, that the Federal Minister does not have the right to prescribe to women what work they should do, which functions should be performed by women, which role women should have in our society. The federal law to be passed today should not only serve to pick up lost terrain, but it should be for the benefit of all women in professional life. Therefore, we will not give consent to this federal law on the night work of women.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7098	Mrs Pittermann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7119	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In order to prevent women from losing their jobs or receiving none, the ban on night work for women is lifted before the EU time limit. Night work is physically, psychologically and socially extremely stressful for all workers. As a servant, who has served night, weekend and holiday services for more than 19 years, I know about the burdens caused by night work for the affected and their families. We women are tough enough to exist without sufficient sleep and regeneration possibilities, as we must practice it for years from the birth of the first child. But the "radl" service with constant change of day/night rhythm is unpleasant than just night work. It is undisputed that night services are essential in service professions such as health services, tourism and others. In addition, night work is needed to improve the utilization of machines and higher incomes of companies. Since women do about 70 to 100 percent of family work, night work is more demanding for them. Under increasing economic pressure, under fear of losing their jobs, women are becoming increasingly ready for night work. It should also be noted that women in particular tend to self - exploitation. While men usually recover before and after night work, women take advantage of the time to take care of the children, to cook, to care for the household, and then to go to work tired, and are happy to be able to provide the children themselves the next day and to have more time for the household during the day. Such robbery against health is a matter of revenge. Lack of concentration and reduction of sensory benefits by overtiring induce errors and accidents at work. Failure to comply with the day/night rhythm leads to increased physical and mental problems such as sleep disorders, digestive problems, chronic fatigue, burn-out syndrome, abuse of sleep, pain, sedatives and discharges. Social contacts are more restricted for night workers, participation in training and cultural events is difficult, as are private meetings. Since men are not alone, the night work of the wife is used for versatile, mostly relevant social contacts. This leads to marital crises and divorces and all the more contributes to the unification of nightworking women. In addition to higher pay for night work, in order to allow workers a higher standard of living and to reduce the attractiveness of night work for entrepreneurs, appropriate leisure, rest breaks, health checks and rest are to be provided for workers' protection reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I call on all those responsible to comply with all the provisions on worker protection required, and to the labour inspectorate to increase this willingness by reviewing. With increasing age, night work is more stressful, the ability to regeneration is less. If women are no longer able to do night work, they must not be disadvantaged. For Single parents are difficult to provide night care for children, so the operation has to provide childcare facilities, as well as a transport service, since many do not have private transport. This law is intended to allow for the expansion of women's employment. The optimum conditions can be found from operational needs and the circumstances of women's lives. A few weeks ago, we decided to reduce early pensions. If we harm people physically and mentally, it is impossible. We Socialists want to ensure that people in a human environment, which also takes account of their needs, are happy to do their work and thus contribute to greater economic and social growth.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7186	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure. I would ask the honourable Members to take their seats to this end. We shall now proceed to the vote. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We first come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1010 of the supplements. I am seeking the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law a sign of approval. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also done by the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report, 1011 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 645/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein and comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Charity Law and the General Social Insurance Act (1003 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Special Assistance Act and the Night Heavy Labour Act (1012 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 315/A by Mr Martina Gredler and others on the increase in the threshold for the benefit from unemployment insurance (1004 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 417/A (E) by Mr Edith Halle Rund Comrades on the practical limitation of secondary incomes in respect of insurance cover (1006 of the supplements) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 491/A (E) by Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on the possibility of interim benefits under the Unemployment Insurance Act (1005 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (859 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on social security (1007 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (902): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on employment in border zones (1008 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (903 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the exchange of workers for the extension of professional and linguistic knowledge (Practical Agreements) (1009 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7361	We now come to points 4 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Reporting shall not take place. We are therefore going into the debate. Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7391	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Nürnberger has 'fleet'. . I have now sent a letter to qualified companies in Austria for several weeks to help establish a free trade union in Austria. This step has become necessary as the Austrian Trade Union Confederation has long been unable to represent the interests of Austrian workers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have suffered a debacle in the "consumer" where They have been economically active. You are no longer able to recognize the interests of those concerned, but in cashing you are world champions. The officials of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation stand in shame in the pot of membership payments, which make up around 1.5 billion schilling each year. But the consumption is 1.7 billion schilling. They then cover it again by selling BAWAG shares so that they can survive at all. You should not always play the Morala Paul here and not discredit every movement that is in the interests of the workers, because that is one of your methods. If you were to use your power less against us than for the workers in this Republic, it would be much better. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Austrian Trade Union Confederation is serving itself in an insolent way with Austrian workers. There are companies – as you can hear – who are forced to take the members to the ÖGB, where the next way after the presentation in the Directorate to the works council chairman is. There the person concerned is alerted to the fact that he has to join because this is a representative of interest. [[Call the SPÖ: Unheard!]] I have come to know the officials of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation in this way: an unbelievable behavior in an incredible style of the past. I always have the impression that these rulers in the Communist secret union have made their school. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: It's embarrassing! Shame!]] That's the behaviour of the ÖGB and also the reason that we can't "can" with you, my dear friends! Because you're always so outraged: In four years, my dear colleague, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation... [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Shame!]] – For you, I enjoy myself anyway! I'm ashamed that something like you're sitting in here at all. That is the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why are you even sitting in here? With what authority? Which interests besides your own do you still represent here? [[Abg. Ritsmer: Buchstabier!]] You have nothing in mind except your own interests! I'll tell you something, so you know, too. The Austrian Trade Union Confederation serves in an insolent manner with Austrian workers. Within four years, the Chambers for Workers and Workers have transferred 100 million Schilling to the Austrian Trade Union Confederation in cash without asking a single employee whether he is right without proof of performance without knowing what is happening to the money at all. That's how you are: They are wasting forced contributions here in Austria! Forced contributions! You still cannot get used to democracy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They no longer have an absolute majority in this country and will never reach it again! But you just don't want to take note of that. And the Trutzburges you still have, you have to maintain; the Trutzburges for the functionaries and not for the people you would be there for! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: You get another heart attack if you get so excited!]] There are full-page advertisements in your journals, starting from Casino Austria to BAWAG, to official insurance, to the credit institution. I don't know, but these companies are putting the money in packages in front of the door, or how can you finance it? - I'll tell you. [[Abg. Riepl: Why do you go snoring to the employers?]] – Young man with the old face, now I'll tell you something: Railway magazine: There's a full-page listing. [[Abg. Riepl: Why you go snoring!]] Now listen! What do you think the dear God has given you two ears and one mouth? [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] What do you think you have two ears and one mouth? [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: You are at risk of stroke!]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Riepl.]] Can you listen? Go to school! – I learned that from the ÖGB. [[Abg. Riepl: Why you go snoring!]] There are therefore full-page ads at the price of 59 000 s, full-page ads in each issue. That's your way of politics: to condemn the other, but even to get into the pot in an insanity! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] Yeah, that's a multi-cassier, too. Guggenberger must also report. This makes you very happy, Mr Leider-No-Obmann in Tirol; nothing has become. Their "seriosity" in the work is now again noticeable: in the additional earnings for the unemployed, also in this field. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] Even if it is funny for you, for the unemployed it is certainly not funny, but you seem to excite everything that is happening in this Republic. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: What we do is for the unemployed! You didn't read the law!]] You will succeed in innovation of unemployment insurance laws three times in a year. [[Abg. Riepl: You want money to create trade unions!]] One time you even succeed in § 36 an amendment, where previously the 1. ==References====External links== So you're very good at this. I can tell you that these measures provided for in the Unemployment Insurance Act do not in any way cover the interests of the unemployed people, with the interests of those seeking secondary employment. There is certainly no motivation for employment in this area. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: You talk to the wrong people, Mr. Gaugg!]] The ceiling provided for shall be considered to be negative, and from a total income of 8 600 S there shall be no further employment. They should therefore rethink this innovation and make it practical. You may need to calculate after hours or lean on the Swiss model. And something else, because everything is so funny, cheerful and fiddle. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Not at all!]] There is an agreement with Hungary on employment in border zones, which you will again agree with enthusiasm. However, they ignore the fact that this measure has an uneven weighting. We have very different social provisions and income levels from those in Hungary, which are uneven partners. That is why we will not agree to this proposal either.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7641	Mr Gusenbauer, rapporteur, spoke to the House for an actual correction. The provisions are known: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7665	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg has assumed that top officials of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation would have been trained at the Communist Secret Federation. This is an incredible assumption! It is true, rather, that the Austrian Trade Union Confederation has defended democracy at all times in that country under the most difficult conditions and has had nothing to do with any communist secret alliances. [[Abg. Gaugg:... step with feet!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7704	Mrs Reitsamer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7725	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I did not know that Mr Colleaguer wanted to establish a yellow union. I was always of the opinion that it should be an employee's representative, and then I wonder why he wants to make himself dependent on service providers. But if he misses the subject, that's his thing. We are now talking about the unemployment insurance law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Until now, it has not been possible to earn unemployment benefits, emergency workers and pensioners over the poverty limit, and by day-to-day employment the insurance benefit has been lost for a whole month. This was particularly difficult – I am thinking of wage calculators who could find employment at the end of the month and in the first days of the following month and then have lost their achievements for two months. [[Abg. Meisinger: You've decided to put your money in your hands!]] Mr Meisinger! Please be quiet! You're supposed to talk down here and not up there! [[Call to the liberals:Hello!]] "Hello," that's what you say when you call! The main key points are the calculation of income from temporary employment. Every income from an employment up to 16 days, if it exceeds the level of low-capacity, is charged to 90 percent of the unemployment benefit and emergency aid and to 50 percent of the benefit for the benefit. A short-term employment should not lead to any deterioration in the coverage of emergency aid to older unemployed persons, while the health insurance protection for pensioners is at the request of 18 to 24 persons. The child's life is guaranteed, and it is clarified when the leave allowance is exhausted and thus the emergency aid is due. – These are the main cornerstones of today’s novels. It should be an incentive to take up temporary employment, because if you are punished, you cannot talk about incentive. At the same time, however, it is intended to exclude abusive use by means of higher secondary incomes. And what is also very important: Vocational integration is promoted, because especially with karenz money-based women – I would like to mention this example – the contact to their employer, to their company, and this seems to me to be very important and very important. The impact on labour law design opportunities and any burdens or relief of unemployment insurance are reviewed and documented in the Social Report. The requests made show that all political groups have seen the need for action. I am all the more sorry that there was a different opinion from the Liberal Forum, in which the Swiss model is so highly praised. Let me focus very briefly on this model: It is considered to be partially unemployed who is not in employment and who is only seeking part-time employment or part-time employment and who is seeking full-time or part-time employment. If someone loses his job and explains that he is looking for only a part-time job of 50 percent, he also receives only 50 percent of the unemployment benefit. If there is nothing else, the affected person will find himself in a fatal situation. In Switzerland, employment is aimed at: Intermittent earnings are reasonable if the remuneration reaches at least 70 percent of insured income. The unemployed are entitled to a reduction in compensation; they have to limit the benefits of insurance as far as possible. In the context of this commitment, they also have to take over positions for which pay is less than 70 percent. One such Mid-term earnings within one month are counted on unemployment insurance benefits. The unemployed person receives 80 percent of the loss of earnings, with the difference between the interim earnings achieved during the control period and the insured earnings. I think that with regard to Meanwhile, our model is better and fairer, and that is why we will decide in a majority way today.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7781	Next word: Mr. Dr. Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7802	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Right at the beginning, Mrs Reitsamer: We voted in committee, and we shall also vote in plenary. Nevertheless, we have made a reservation in the form of a differentiated opinion, which puts our fingers on a weak spot in this case, because what is decided here applies to intermediate earnings, but not to transfer periods with part-time employment. And that would be an essential extension. Furthermore, I have already made it clear in the Committee that we do not mean the numbering mechanics of the Swiss model, but rather the philosophy that both interim and part-time work should be possible – and that is, temporary part-time work, so that it does not become a permanent establishment – in the hope that this will create even more opportunities for return or return to the labour markets, especially in the case of longer-term unemployment. That is why I have allowed myself to give a different personal opinion. But it is unreasonable to do so now, as if we – and we Liberals in particular – do not approve the fact that, for the first time in this Republic, it is recognised that social benefits must be combined in the sense of unemployment support and work, so that it must be possible to obtain social assistance in precarious conditions, because this is an approach towards basic security and also a new philosophy. And because we believe it is courageous that the government should trust this, we have agreed to the committee and will agree here too. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, this does not change the fact that we see the matter very critically. But one thing I must say to the address of the Federal Minister: Just as we read this in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" now, we didn't think so. It is reported that you will now collect the unemployed in buses to transport them to rented halls and present them to the hoteliers and hostess so that they can choose from them. It may be a good idea, but I would say that's already over the border. The means and the form you use there are not reasonable for people who transport you and show you in halls for reasons of human dignity. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Oils.]] If you had now launched a reinforced campaign and had made it clear that it is now possible and permissible to work in addition to unemployment shorter time without immediately catapulting out of the social network – and for one or another it may be quite worth considering that during the winter season it may be possible to take up a temporary employment which he could not accept until recently or at least perhaps black – it would have been right, but not to lead the people from Lower Austria and from the Styria in buses to Salzburg and to bring them into direct contact with hosts and hoteliers in private halls. I can only hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that this is perhaps not a very correct reflection of the situation in the "SN", which I think is so serious that I must fear for you, it was checked against and researched. You have an opportunity to express your views, and I ask you: Get away from it, because that's not how it was meant! There are, however, a few disadvantages which must not be kept silent in what is now a majority. I've already mentioned one: The new regulation applies only to the possibility of interim earnings, but not to the possibility of part-time work. That is why we disagree. Further: The cost page was not evaluable. We talked about this in committee. The officials of your home had to admit that they could not estimate the costs or disadvantages that this would mean. That is, you do not have the statistical material and the necessary knowledge in these precarious sectors of the labour market. This is very disturbing. And in the end, it only works where the people are already very busy, namely in precarious unemployment conditions. But on the other hand, it is at least a revelation of the governmental parties. This means that what you are doing in certain areas of unemployment is not enough to be able to live on it. So They admit, for the first time, that the unemployment insurance system we have is not suitable to meet the stated objectives, namely to finance a life of a kind tolerable to the people in the time when they receive the money. After all, that's something. But something else can be said from this point of view: We had the opportunity in this House in July to adopt a resolution calling on the Federal Minister to present something like this, which is the subject of negotiations today. And that didn't happen! What will be discussed and decided today is an initiative proposal. The Federal Minister has not submitted a draft government proposal. In this respect, although the resolution that such a draft is to be put into the house by the end of this year is being carried out in a material manner today, if we decide, the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Bundesminister, has not formally complied with the resolution. They have been saved by the initiative proposal, and this is a stark hour of parliamentarianism if one wants to, but we would have imagined it differently, Mrs Silhavy, because the difference is serious. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: This is a small difference!]] We already know – we are not completely new in this business – that the authorship is essentially located among the employees of the Federal Ministry of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Minister of Hostasch. We know that! The expertise of the House's officials was available to Members who submitted this proposal for an initiative. We know that, and this is very pleasing for these Members. However, as a member of the opposition, it is only limited because we cannot access these resources. In addition, you know very well that there is a division of violence on and on its own. In such a case, the division of powers does not necessarily mean that we are opposed if friendly cooperation is worked together, but then the legislative departments of the ministries should be available to all Members. And they don't! That is why I have specifically mentioned this. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I do not want to mention here once again the diligence, patience and endurance of the civil service. But they are worth mentioning, because the Members who have made the request could not have formulated it themselves – even with the help of the resources available to and for themselves as parliamentarians, namely the personal staff and the referendum of a club. These are not enough to fully formulate all the initiatives. That too was a reason why I gave a different personal opinion. We wanted to achieve that the official office of the House of the Federal Minister for Hostasch was allowed to reflect on the possibilities of part-time work in connection with such a model. Perhaps political copyright will be relocated elsewhere, but I would like to expressly stress that: The fact that this decision is being taken today is also due to the unbroken dissatisfaction of the Liberal Forum. We have already tabled this motion several times as a motion for a resolution, and it has been voted negatively several times. Now we are so far, that it will be realized according to the reason. I should like to point out that this philosophy was already established in the Liberal Forum's programme in 1993. You are now carrying out our party program with us, and we thank you for that! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, I would like to say: We are very pleased that a committee has been established, which makes it clear that the time-limit of this law – the introduction of this law for two years – has also facilitated our approval, as we do not agree in detail with the form in which it now comes – should be used intensively in order to gain experience and also to publish this experience, in the form of the social report in which it is then incorporated. I'm just asking for one: Do this in such a timely and comprehensive manner that we can make real use of the conclusions drawn from the experience if we decide on this from today's point of view in two years' time: Is it going on the way we now decide? What needs to be changed? Or, unfortunately, does what we are now introducing for two years have to end? . I would like us to take a decision in two years where what will be decided today will be further developed, in the direction of basic security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7879	Mrs Gatterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7900	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I believe that this proposal is positive: positive for unemployed people, positive for those who receive emergency aid, but above all positive for women who apply for care. I would remind you that in this House of Rosemarie Bauer, together with all the other members of the ÖVP in June, the request was made that a karenz period should be made more flexible, because it is quite, very important for karenz payers – and this shows all the studies – that they can also keep contact with the company during the karenz period, that they are not driven out of the profession, out of work through holiday representations, sick leave representations or temporary jobs. I therefore believe that we should see today, above all, the positive part of this proposal, which is that it offers opportunities for many. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As you know, the only way for unemployed people in the past was to earn up to the level of poverty. This law has pursued the intention – perhaps something uncertain by the discussion about possible abuse – of introducing stricter measures here. Experience has shown us, however, that in some cases this scheme has actually prevented unemployed people from taking on temporary employment and that in this way it has given them a very important opportunity, namely the opportunity to have a foothold in the door to the labour market, because they knew that many things would fall away if they deserve beyond the limit: There is no unemployment benefit, which is also linked to insurance and, of course, also to the prospect of pension. We may not only have taken these people a chance, but perhaps also the motivation to look around the labour market – and only after temporary employment. We know from experience that very often by means of holiday representations, by means of assistance a good contact to the company arises and that when the next full-time job is released, a unemployed person, a re-enter, a returnee or a return to the profession will then be given the chance and will be able to re-entry. I would like to refer specifically to the subject of karenz money: We know from statistics that every sixth woman, if she is in Karenz for a year, has to suffer from occupational and financial disadvantages. The longer the woman stays with the child, the harder it becomes to get back into the labour market. There is, however, the possibility of part-time leave, but unfortunately it is not accepted to the extent that we have imagined it. So far, it has been possible to earn up to the level of low-speedness. In the future, however, there are far-reaching possibilities for such women, which we have calculated on the following specific model: A woman receives carnation money of 5 565 s per month and has an additional earnings of 10 000 S per month. After deduction of the low-quality rate and an accounting of 50 percent, you would still be left with 3 927 S of the karenz money. I think that is something very positive and also an incentive. I believe that this proposal generally contains an incentive model for all those people who are to re-integration into the labour market, i.e. those who are in need of assistance, long-term unemployed, that we also take a step to reduce undeclared work, because we are not so much involved in the legal process, the temptation to work in the shadow sector, and people are getting back to their deserve and to register. I think that is a very important point. The most important point is that this model provides knowledge that self-confidence is imparted, that opportunities are opened up and, of course, – and this is quite legitimate – that the financial situation of people is greatly improved. Emergency aid providers do not have much financial security, and therefore they must be able to earn it. The flexible design of the karenz age is an important point, the possibility of a second merit. However, this request contains other essential points, such as the fact that caregivers will be sick by the second year of the child's life – a very important point for us women and for mothers. I would like to address an aspect which has also been raised in the Committee – the Minister is not here at the moment – and this is the question: [[Call the SPÖ: Oh yes!]] If there's an abuse, how can we stop it? I believe that we have also made good provision in this regard for the fact that there is a time limit of two years. At this time one will see what the situation looks like, what the law is being used, and one can collect supporting data that has not yet been collected and then really say whether this law has proved itself or not. I think that is also a very, very important point. Another important point for us women is that there will be a substantial improvement in the case of multiple births, i.e. in the case of twins and more children. That is also something we very much welcome. The same applies to the incentive for women aged 45 and over, men aged 50 and over, who seek emergency aid, to temporarily accept short jobs. All in all, this is a law that we very much support and welcome from the ÖVP, as it offers an additional opportunity for people who are very difficult on the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7944	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e7965	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's hold it at the beginning: This is the second amendment of the unemployment insurance law that we are adopting today. We already have an amendment in the Women's Education Relationship Act, which, however, did not happen to the Social Committee. In general terms, this could not happen in relation to this law, even if it does not go through the Committee on Social Affairs. I would like to say in general that it significantly increases the rate of unemployment insurance law, in its revisions. This is not the first revision, nor the second one we are deciding this year, but we have already decided on some. In general, I would place great importance on this, not particularly on the address of Mrs Minister, but, of course, on this House, that social matters should also be dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs, or at least the Social Committee should be informed of the fact that a law is being changed twice a day, but only once that of the Social Committee. That in so far as it is general, because I believe that this could create problems for us – apart from the lack of legibility and perceptibility for the citizens, which is obviously not so exciting for you, because we have a more uneven problem with the ASVG. Now to the law itself. I have heard many positive words about this law, and I have also stressed in committee some of these positive attitudes for my group. I think that certain principles should be properly deserved, apart from the possibility for pensioners. I would like to take this out in particular. I also think it is right to make a time limit and look at it after two years, or to observe and evaluate this process, what is happening within these two years. It would also have been possible for Mr Kier to try not only this model, but also to look at other models, possibly limited to a federal country, because it must not be so that this model is the only one that makes it blessed. And I will also tell you what problems I see, and there are some major problems. A problem that I do not want to see as positive or negative is the financial impact. It has been explained to us in the committee that we cannot count them. I can tell you at least one thing: this law, if it does not fundamentally alter the behaviour of the unemployed, has an effect on all cases, namely that the burden on unemployment insurance is reduced. Of course, the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Labour can be happy about this, but at the same time they need money, but at the same time – and that would not be meant – the intention, although she would be suspected of financing part of her unemployment money, which is a reason why you will take up employment temporarily. This is also to be considered. I would like to make the careful point that we are discussing this with the unemployed and emergency workers, of whom we know that unemployment benefit and, above all, emergency aid is not enough and very low, especially in women, is not existential. We are talking here of amounts, which usually amount to 5 000, 6 000, 7 000 or 8 000 s, but not about 13 000 s, and then take note of that. It's supposed to be like that, essentially, unemployment insurance saves something. I would like to make a critical comment on this, but then let it be used. Nevertheless, until this point one could still say that the law is positive, if there were not the problem with "temporary employment". In the Committee there have already been some explanations on what "temporary employment" may be. Does that mean being active continuously for several months? - No, that's basically not what it's supposed to be. If that does not mean, then what Mr Gatterer said is no longer true of part of the motivation. Then it is only for very few people a start to the work process, colleague Gatterer. For if it can and should only be temporary and if the framework of temporary employment can be defined so relatively closely, namely as a non-continuous relationship between such employment relationships lasting up to 16 days, then it looks bad with the door to the labour market through such a form of employment. But please, there is still room in it, which was also explained to us in the Committee on Social Affairs, which can be interpreted in this way. I could still live with this, if there was still a problem with "temporary employment" – no one in the committee has made it clear to us, it has, of course, been said, that we already had, that is already the basis – which is, I think, the labour market service, when it offers a temporary job to an unemployed person, and this one, after he has begun to expect, and it has come to the conclusion that he may receive only 2,000 s more than the unemployment benefit, says, no thank you, it is not for me that he can block unemployment money. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I'm on it!]] Mr. Feurstein! They were in the committee, because there was a clear explanation that unemployment benefit can be blocked. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has then objected and said that we are not going to handle it so extensively. But, of course, the rules on feasibility are clearly defined. It is established that this work is also reasonable for an unemployed person and that, if he rejects it, a blockage of unemployment benefit can be imposed. We think that it would be the legislator's task to make a clarification. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In fact, this is just a clarification so that what you, Mr Feurstein, have caused to be outraged, and, I assume, the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany is not really able to come up with. If you do not want to give this clarification because you have any intentions – for example, the Federal Chancellor said yesterday, for him it is excluded – or can't give, because you are actually planning at some point, unemployed people who are refusing a job for a few days to cancel the unemployment allowance, so if you do not want and can not accept this amendment, then I must say that we will not agree to the amendment of this law as a whole. For then it is what is obviously thought in the background to be a possibility of you, namely the attempt to force the unemployed into employment, despite unemployment, despite insufficient income, which do not guarantee them the existence which does not guarantee them any entry into the labour market, which is nothing at all, except that they temporarily provide these persons with a small additional income besides unemployment. That would be cynicism. Mr Feurstein, as well as the SPÖ colleagues, you have the honour to make a clear statement.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8035	The amendment just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Guggenberger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8059	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It was the former German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, to whom the statement is attributed – according to the meaning – that nothing can prevent you from becoming smarter. This is also true of the novel that we are deciding on today. That is why we are not at all criticised by Mr Gaugg and Mr Oellinger, who believe that we have now renewed the unemployment insurance law within two years. We're on it. What happened to this first Structural Adjustment Act? We decided at the time that the unemployed, who deserve beyond the limit of poverty, would lose the total amount of unemployment benefit for the month. This has certainly been a political mistake – one has to confess it without passion today. I come from a very tourism-intensive district. There are a lot of farms that lock around the end of April, beginning of May, depending on the length of the winter season, and then sometime they get back guests and lock up for three, four, five days. Last year there was the following: The companies have returned their stamping workers. They have also been happy to have worked these three or four days and have earned 4,000 or 5,000 s. In the meantime, they had to find that these 4,000 or 5 000 workers who deserved them had been removed from the unemployment fund for the whole month. The fact that the workers were outraged probably understands itself. Of course, they complained to their boss. All together, the bosses and the employees, complained about the labour market service. It was the colleagues in the regional employment service offices who had to deal with this displeasure. We have understood this and accepted it and have given consideration to it. It was this House which the Federal Minister, in the context of a resolution, instructed the House to find a reasonable, practical solution. We have found this reasonable, practical solution. She's here today. All are satisfied: workers, service providers and, last but not least, labour market service colleagues. If everyone is satisfied, I wonder why we should not be satisfied too. We are satisfied and therefore we are happy to give our approval to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8103	The next item is the speech by Mrs Haller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8124	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The main issue of today's decision-making is the possibility of additional income in the case of unemployed persons or pensioners. If Mr Guggenberger is so satisfied, I can only say that there is of course still something better, dear Walter. In the direction of my previous speaker and colleague, Mr Gaugg, I must say that there are, of course, some positive approaches, but very few. It is positive that there are no limits in the supplementary pension scheme. Positive is the introduction of a subsidiary health insurance until the second birthday of the child. The reliefs in the case of multiple births are also positive. We shall also vote in favour of these points. We want separate votes. But everything you want to decide here today is in the end only repair measures – this has already been agreed by Mr Guggenberger – and repair measures for social hardships that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have put in place with the Structural Adjustment Act. But this is certainly not a cause for rejoicing and for being so satisfied. I'm now referring to the karenz money law. The reason for this new regulation was that, after the Carenz period, women wanted to get back into work. We liberals have been doing this for years, and today the government seems to have made it clear that this is a labour market measure in order to maintain a connection between the former employer and the employee and to enable it to re-enter. Amendment 645/A by the Government parties certainly brings some reliefs in this area. However, the rules are complicated, very difficult for the worker to understand, and they are also aimed at reducing the amount of the pension by additional means of earnings. This will ultimately provide just as little incentive as the part-time care, which has also been announced as a great success. We liberals have made a request that goes far beyond that. We want to have an annual calculation mechanism which will prevent the benefit of the pension fund from being reduced, which will allow leave representations to be carried out that would bring benefits to the employer and to the employee without the benefit being reduced. We will certainly bring this request back because it would still be a useful addition to those measures you want to take today. I would like to comment on one more point, namely Mr Feurstein's motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Minister to present a legislative amendment to allow contributions from self-employed persons, i.e. an extension of the deadline, to be made possible in the area of unemployment insurance, i.e. by means of additional contributions. What's this about? The Structural Adjustment Act – and now we are back there – has created a hardness in such a way that, after a maximum of three years of independence, all claims arising from unemployment insurance for self-employed persons fall away. This is a social hardship – and that in a time like today's colleague Feurstein, in which men and women are exempted at over 40 years of age, because of another possibility of merit, they have to move into self-employment, go into bankruptcy after three years or later, because that is not possible, and then they stand there. If they have previously paid contributions to unemployment insurance for 25 years, the question is: Is that really what it's all about? Should all this be lost? We liberals don't want that! We want an "eternal standing" in this area. Therefore, for the second time, I am bringing forward our motion for a free resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please do so without any additional contributions and without any additional irrigation measures! I believe that this is only too cheap a desire for opposition, and I am already looking forward to seeing that you may be responding to proposals from the liberals in the future, as has been the case in other areas.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8220	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8245	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for the discussion so far, because, in fact, all those who have spoken about it have felt that the principle is correct and necessary, that both in the Carenz Money Act and in the Unemployment Insurance Act and in other relevant laws, the measures adopted in the Social Committee will be put in place. I see this as a confirmation of professional cooperation between the Members of Parliament and my place of business, as it has existed in recent weeks. I would like to draw attention to one point in this bill. It is the one where there is no deterioration in the coverage of emergency aid to older unemployed people, with "older unemployed" – which is to be noted with certain sarcasm – 45 and 50 years of age – when there is a short employment relationship. We know the problem of unemployment support and emergency aid at last income and, in particular, of older people, there was a higher income situation in employment. But if a new job is started and the opportunity is found to get a job again as an older person, this often does not happen at those conditions that were originally present. It would and will be due for longer unemployment a lower basis of emergency aid. This means that a job seeker sometimes has to consider whether he can make use of an employment opportunity at all in this situation. I am therefore very glad that the House will take account of this amendment today. Let me make a brief comment on some of the contributions to the debate. Mr Gaugg mentioned the border agreement with Hungary. I believe that there is a misunderstanding that has been raised by his remarks: In particular, the purpose of this Cross-border Agreement is to ensure that there is a clear relationship between a friendly neighbouring country and Austria and that labour market conditions for border regions are ensured in the future. Mr Dr Kier rightly said that this was not a formal government proposal, but an initiative by the ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that we have already been consulted with a draft law and have also received comments from all the bodies concerned, which were not least involved in parliamentary deliberations; but it is true that: Formal has not been submitted to the government. For this I am all the more grateful that the ladies and gentlemen are fulfilling the promise that has actually been given to me as a task. There were several suggestions for further developments in unemployment insurance law both in the debates in the Committee on Social Affairs and today in the House. I would also like to say, on this occasion, that I am very proud of my officials, because they are really taking up all the new suggestions, but also criticisms, thinking about where there is a need for change, making concrete proposals to you and, of course, to me, so that we have the opportunity to continue to develop existing laws again and again, as is also the question of the time-limit for self-employed. But I would like to make it quite clear that no solutions to the zero tariff can be made, but that it is about fairness and equivalence. I am also interested in finding a solution. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The following point is not directly the subject of this debate, but Mr Dr Kier referred to an article in today's issue of the "Salzburger Nachrichten" entitled: "The innkeepers are supposed to choose the unemployed." When reading this article, you will see what it really is about. I am very glad that the labour market service and its employees, with creative and also exceptional measures, are trying to provide solutions for jobs-seekers in our country. It is a fact that there is no employment opportunities in the federal states, especially in situations where seasonal employment is a particular question, for job seekers from the tourism sector with experience in tourism or also interest in tourism, but there are no employment opportunities in the respective region, for example in Styria, Burgenland, Vienna or also in Lower Austria of winter tourism, as in Salzburg, Tyrol or Vorarlberg. I therefore think it is right for the employees of the AMS to approach job seekers who have the intention of working as seasonal workers in this sector and give them the opportunity to work with employers who register the same needs. In this way, we achieve something that I see as a social and labour market policy objective, namely to ensure first and foremost that we recruit job seekers who want to find employment in Austria – even if only temporary employment – and not disproportionately seasonal workers from abroad. I therefore fully support this extraordinary measure and am very glad that my employees in the AMS have now taken up these considerations. However, I also hope that the tourism industry will deal with the offer in a fair manner and, accordingly, in Austria, as unemployed reported colleagues will give the opportunity to work in the tourism sector. It must also ensure that an important industry can be available to the guest with services. I should now like to say the following about the comments made by Mr Ollinger, who took up a subject which was also discussed in the Committee, namely the question of the blockage of unemployment aid, if no temporary employment should be adopted, – we were able to discuss it in great detail at the Committee meeting – that: In the case of the placement and acceptance of an offer, it depends on the employment of the job-seekers in advance. If it is an employee or an employee who has a full-day employment relationship in a particular area and who, of course, is seeking to do so again, there is, of course, no barrier if only a day-to-day job is to be offered. However, if someone is unemployed because he has been pursuing only daily or temporary jobs in the past, it is reasonable, I think, that he or this job-seeker is offered a temporary job. And if it is not adopted, the legal regulations will enter into force. I believe that we will also find the right balance in the administration, and it is not least in the inner relationship with the labour market service to find the process that is socially desirable and acceptable. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank you very much for the fact that very important projects, including in the field of social affairs, can still be decided. The Federal Law on the Night Labour of Women was first adopted, and we are now facing a decision on unemployment insurance law and other laws. I think I can say from the point of view of my department that this year we have been able to move a lot in the field of social, labour and also health thanks to your support. I would like to continue to wish us good cooperation, even next year.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8314	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mrs. Dr. Sonja Moser has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8338	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Guggenberger is satisfied, and I am happy too. Since life-long learning is a must, it may also be so that overnight – and not just overnight – one becomes smarter. The 1996 Structural Adjustment Act established that, in the case of an income of 3,600 S due to day-to-day or temporary employment, there is no entitlement to unemployment benefit, emergency aid and sickness benefit throughout the calendar month. This has led to problems in a wide range of areas, especially as a result of the threat of the loss of insurance. – After tough negotiations and great efforts, Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch and our social spokesperson Dr. Gottfried Feurstein were able to achieve really good results. Consistency is also possible during the time of birth; alternatively also during the reference of unemployment assistance, emergency aid and special emergency aid. Unfortunately, compromises always have the capacity to be a little more complex. Ladies and gentlemen! I can't make it easy for you to really show you this throughput. Take as follows: They are in Karenz and can earn 10,000 s by holiday representation. From this, pull off the lower limit of 3 830 S, because on 1st. January 1998, this law enters into force, divide this first result by two; half is free. Take this second result, divide it through the calendar days, through the actual calendar days – that is, by 28, if it is February, by 31 when it is March – then take the third result and subtract it from the day-care rate of 185 S. Take the fourth result and multiply it with the working days – up to 16 days are possible to work a month – then you get the amount of the remaining care allowance. Mrs Haller first proposed taking into account the year-to-year settlement period; then we will probably still have to take the square root and take the result up to three. – The last two steps need to be taken So you can't continue to wonder, but as I could see from your faces, you have already left the second step. Thank God we do not need to carry out all the points and lines ourselves in the time of the computer. There is a program with which we can get the result at the push of a button. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: Just a teacher says that!]] There are three more problems in general: First of all, it is economically necessary because the job link is to be maintained and the job is safeguarded by continuous continuing training. Secondly, the financial emergency. If a single mother really has at her disposal only the carnage money of 5 540 s at the moment, but the rental costs 8 000 s, I wonder how she is supposed to do so. Thirdly, the human side. Mothers and fathers rightly expect to make it possible for you to reconcile family and profession. Family-friendly companies make a significant contribution to strengthening the economic location and the families. We are developing the basis for a family impact assessment. – However, all these measures do not protect against the fact that a child is best removed from a reference person for the first three years of its most important socialisation phase, mostly in the case of the mother. This is really to be taken into account – and I would like to talk about it again: Those mothers, who are still ready to stay at home and care for their children, should be allowed to reach pension grounds in these years of staying at home and child care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8385	Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8406	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with two items on the agenda. These relate to the Austro-Hungarian Agreement on employment in border zones and the Internship Agreement. We Liberals will have the pleasure of rejecting both. I therefore say "have pleasure" because we think that this is a completely mistaken way of dealing with our neighbours. Firstly, the agreement on workers in border zones will include the share of the maximum number of employees. Then there is a six-month extension, i.e. a border guard who travels home daily must work every six months to obtain a work permit in Austria. It will not allow him to get a certain relief after 10, 20 years. What are you doing for? – One does this only to employ some officials – I suppose – because this is a purely administrative process. I can well remember that in the summer in Burgenland Hoteliers said that they would not have anyone to support them during the summer season because the workers who have been working for years in Burgenland are no longer allowed to enter and can no longer pursue their employment. That is why they must be locked up. It should be noted that those people who come regularly are also adequately integrated, because the work they do in Austria gives them pension rights. However, they are not allowed to live in Austria with this pension because they may not be allowed to stay after 20, 30 or 35 years of activity in Austria. You always treat these people like we didn't want them at all. But the Liberal Forum wants these people in Austria, and we want to make their situation easier when they have integrated into the world of work. I am sorry that you, ladies and gentlemen, have not come to this understanding by the government parties. Furthermore, the Internship Agreement. The number of persons employed per year is limited to 300, which are counted to the maximum of the Federal Republic of Germany. Mrs. Federal Minister! If only 200 come to Austria, does that mean that these 300 are still blocked – or does that mean that the remaining 100 are removed from the highest number? [[Federal Minister Hostasch nods.]] - Well, after all, something. Why, Mrs. Federal Minister, do we have to count interns on any maximum number? – These are often young people between the ages of 18 and 35, whose stay is also limited, who come to know our culture and the working world, who learn the language that only wants to draw positive from our society and do not want to settle in thoughts already in Austria. These people are making life difficult, so to speak, a quota is allocated to them, rather than flexibility being shown. I also do not understand the statement made, for example, by Mr Vice-Chanceller Schüssel, who said that this relative marginal situation in Austria in the EU is being transformed into a fundamental advantage in the EU. Of course, we need to take account of our labour market situation; we do not question liberals either. Of course, we have to show special activities. Only Mr Bundeskanzler's climate in Luxembourg on the weekend will demand that there be special programmes for workers in border regions. And if there is to be these, we cannot limit them: neither number nor time nor bureaucratic obstacles. On the contrary, the EU's Esprit is to show and deregulate flexibility. What you do, on the other hand, is to regulate. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Half of the Austrian population lives in border areas, and it is probably also interested in coming into closer contact with our Hungarian neighbours, including learning more about them and how they are profiled on the labour market. I have to say, but don't let that happen. After six months of work permits, after having been employed in Austria for 10, 15 or 20 years, one gradually loses its desire. I'm sorry. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally, I would like to return to this article in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" in which it is written that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, had the "creative idea" to "bring unemployed Niederösterreicher and Steirer to Salzburg in Bussen. There they are to come into direct contact with hosts and hoteliers who are urgently seeking labor." – Do you know what association I have? – That’s where I think of the slave markets that it used to be. There also potential buyers looked at the "human goods" slaves. I think you have a good intention, only the way in which it is to be implemented, will disavow the dignity of these people, and I think that is a pity. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hostasch.]] Bringing people into adored halls to visit them there by potential interested people such as cattle is unworthy of human beings. Choose other methods that are more decent! Then you'll also receive applause from our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8465	I am now interrupting the discussions on these agenda items so that we can start dealing with the urgent question. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Herbert Scheibner and Mr comrades to the Federal Minister for State Defence on the threat to Austrian interests and the uncertainty of the population on security policy and defence (3416/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8497	We now come to the debate on the urgent question put by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades. It has now been distributed to all Members, so that the reading by a writer is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8953	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr Scheibner will be given the floor on the grounds of urgent question. The speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e8988	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have waited a very long time for this urgent request because we have tried to bring more dynamics into security policy in a different way and, above all, to set reforms in motion in order to improve the disastrous situation in which the Austrian state defense is located. [[Abg. Kiss: Not even a third of the FPÖ representatives are present at their own emergency!]] Unfortunately, all these attempts, Mr Kiss, have not been successful. [[Abg. Kiss: Two thirds of you are missing now!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We have tried to make applications, but they have been rejected or postponed – including by the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We tried to make inquiries. These were answered, if at all, only very sluggish and incomplete or incorrect. And we have also tried to clarify things in personal discussions. But that was not possible with you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Haigermoser doesn't find the men behind him! He's looking desperate!]] Federal Minister! Today we have made a very serious request: with very many very specific questions. However, we believe that in six hours you and your place of business should be able to answer these questions in full. After all, you have approved 400 posts in your central office more than was foreseen in the establishment plan. [[Abg. Haigermoser: About 400!]] And these additional 400 posts will hopefully be positive when answering the request. I hope, above all, that you, Mr Federal Minister, will finally give a very concrete opinion on issues relating to future security policy, of course also propose measures, how the disastrous state of Austrian defence should be improved. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Democracy is the key – and not your tank fantasies!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on security policy in this country and also in this House is becoming more and more diffuse, leading on the one hand to an incredible uncertainty in the population, on the other hand, you have re-arranged a military division, which is obviously to represent a kind of intermediate division up to the next division, something that completely insecures the German army and the soldiers, while there is a broad protest movement, which slowly, but surely, leads to a superGAU. Security policy: Mr Federal Minister, you have rightly said this morning – your analyses are usually right, your actions are less - that since the end of the Cold War in Europe an interesting, if not fascinating, development has taken place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] After the first disappointment after the end of the Cold War – for you, colleague Kiss, also interesting as a Burgenländer! – as we had hoped that in Europe an age of peace and freedom would break out, but we would have to take note of it – for example through the events in Yugoslavia – that this is not the case, but rather that we are living in Europe at an age of instability and the potential of conflict, so after this first disappointment, European democracies and also the new democracies of Eastern Europe have come together, set themselves on a table in the various security organizations and have been on the verge of organizing a lasting peace and security system in Europe for seven years. A fascinating process, Minister of Defense! It would also be interesting for Austria as a country in the heart of Europe to participate in this development. But what are you doing? . They resist in a party-political debate outside Parliament and do not find the necessary decisions to allow Austria to participate equally in this integration process to take part in these security processes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Former enemy states build on a lasting peace order. – But you go from the government to a party-political hack. It is usually the case, Mr Federal Minister, that in a state there is an attempt to find broad consensus on the security policy of a country, not only within the government, but also within the democratic party landscape as a whole. . But you can't even make it clear within the government, which is supposed to solve all the problems, on this important question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Even within a government party there is disagreement: For example, in the S & D Group of the EU Member Swoboda in October 1997, it is said that a NATO accession to Austria is not avoidable. Mr Cap says that neutrality is not a solution to the problems of the future, and he believes that Austria will become a NATO member. – On the other hand, however, in the Socialist Group there is the President Fischer, the Clubobmann Kostelka, who vehemently opposes this NATO option. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For them NATO is obviously a product of the Cold War, a product of imperialism. – You seem to have slept the development of history, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kostelka, Mr President Fischer! Not NATO has won against the Warsaw Pact and Communism in 1990 and 1989, but the population in these countries has won in an incredibly large democratic movement against totalitarian regimes. You should have that in mind once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Wabl, you too may be disturbed because you lost your visions in 1989. But this is your problem that you may be able to share with some in the Social Democratic Party. [[Abg. Wabl: These are phantasies...!]] While it is heard today – also from the Socialist Group – that there will be an option report, and the German Chancellor climate has said that the decision on the future path in security policy will be taken immediately after the option report is available; NATO too is a possible option, that has clearly and clearly expressed the Federal Chancellor's climate – but today it has again stated differently: All of a sudden, President Fischer – and we have heard this from others even this morning – says that the possibility of NATO joining is "no option at all" in the negotiations with the Austrian People's Party. – Minister of Defence! What are you saying? How will this debate on the option report take place? Will you get back over the table? If this is the case, will a Whischi declaration be issued, a decision will be postponed until the next National Council elections, and then the security policy will become an election topic? Will you be responsible for this, Mr. Minister of Defense? - We don't! We were at least a little alarmed about this debate today in the morning hours. Mr. Minister of Defence! But also in your group, the line is not so clear. You yourself are clear in the security policy for the NATO option, but there are also different variants of the time: First of all, you said that the decision had to be taken in 1997. Then, in turn, you said that Austria is already suffering massive disadvantages because no decision has yet been made. And elsewhere, you said there was no hurry at all, we can wait until 1999. Mr. Minister of Defence! What's right now? You have set up a number of scientific institutes in your department. What do these people do to you? There must be clear rules on the basis of which you can make your decisions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And there's the clubman Khol who's been so excited before. It was you, Dr. Khol, who made a glowing commitment to neutrality here shortly before the EU election in 1996. What's that? Is this a clear line in security policy – or has it been a sham in front of the EU elections, Mr Klubobmann Khol? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Khol will clarify this!]] [[Further call to the liberals.]] First, Federal Minister Fassleven said that a rapid accession was necessary, but a few days ago you thought you could actually leave time. How is that now? Foreign Minister Schüssel is also responsible for this. You yourself, Minister of Defence, said in the Committee that you are not at all so much responsible for security policy, but rather that is the Foreign Minister, who has concluded all these agreements, for example, within the framework of the "Partnership for Peace". But there is no clear line to be seen in the case of Foreign Minister Schüssel. He said we're not going to jump over the "NATO-bassin"; the question of NATO entry is not asking. – But now suddenly he says: We're clear for NATO membership. What's going on in your party, Mr. Minister of Defense? Where, then, are the clear prospects needed to make a clear decision? I say quite clearly to you, Minister of Defence, also to the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group: Security policy cannot be a question of ideology or party politics! Security policy is for the purpose, and we do not need red, green, no yellow or blue security policy, but one that ensures our country's independence and freedom as best as possible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a government, with a two-thirds majority in the National Council, you would be called upon to finally present these options to Parliament, to enter into a debate with the public on these options, and to take the decisions as quickly as possible and clearly as possible the direction in which they are to go. There are also quite objectively two possibilities: either to organize security for all and thus for Austria together with other countries in an alliance, or to set ourselves up our military defence in such a way that we can defend ourselves against any possible and potential opponents of the future – which is unlikely, but cannot be ruled out either by Mr Wabl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl]] To this end, there would be the possibility of alliance freedom, such as Finland or Sweden, at least for the next time, and that would theoretically be neutrality. Above all, the Social Democrats say that neutrality has this function for Austria in the future; therefore, neutrality will be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! But what is the function of ever-increasing neutrality today? What role can serious international neutrality have for a state in the middle of Europe? They cannot define this neutrality themselves, for it is an instrument of international law. We have passed our neutrality law on the basis of Swiss neutrality, as the Soviet Union of Austria demanded in the Moscow Memorandum. Austria has not so voluntarily chosen this neutrality, but at that time it was a means for the purpose, Mr President. [[Abg. Arbitrators: "On the basis" is not true!]] I can read it to you too! Little help, Mr. Arbitrator! ==References====External links== April 1955: "In the sense of the statements already made by Austria at the Berlin conference in 1954 not to join any military alliances," and so on, "the Austrian Federal Government will make a declaration in a form which is an international obligation for Austria to continue to practice a neutrality of the way it was handled by Switzerland." [[Abg. Arbitrators: Pattern, not base!]] Mr. Schieder! Commitment of the Austrians in the Moscow Memorandum, on pressure from the Soviet Union. Neutrality as a means to achieve independence. Of course! This is also the great historical value of neutrality. Mr. Schieder! They know very well that we have never complied with the conditions of neutrality according to Swiss patterns, namely, as a political neutrality, as economic neutrality and as military neutrality, as it still defined Switzerland in 1954, because we did not want to comply with them. It was only for the purpose of achieving independence in 1955. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do not pretend today that neutrality is part of our identity! This has only been presented in the 1970s, for party political reasons. Ladies and gentlemen! We have never relied on the security guarantee of neutrality, and it could not have given us any security either. The transit plans of the Warsaw Pact through Austria in a serious case are clearly on the table today. And it is also not true that we were under NATO's protection. NATO would not have defended Austria in a serious case – even today – but NATO would have defended itself in Austria. The Enns – and you know that too, Mr. Federal Minister – would have been the main line between NATO and the Warsaw Pact. Great Earning your defence and security policy over the last four decades! At least today it must be recognized that neutrality, even though it has had an important role over the last 40 years, can no longer answer the questions of the future, but that new instruments must be used. I say our position very clearly once again: We liberals are for the integration of Austria into all existing security alliances, of course also in those in which we are not yet members, such as in the Western European Union or NATO, in order to participate first fully and equally in the construction of these security organizations and, secondly, to ensure our own security for the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They have massive problems in the area of national defence through the non-decision in security policy, because the new army structure is also dependent on this principle decision. You know very well that the German army is not currently operational, that we have serious problems in the field of defence. In Austria, we have too few basic defence officers and obsolete equipment, and you, Mr. Federal Minister, have a totally inadequate budget in your responsibility as the longest minister of defence in Europe. In your own papers, Mr Minister for Defence, it is noted that we are unable, with our mechanized equipment, to defend ourselves against fighting. They write in your own papers, Mr. Defence Minister, that the soldiers, the basic military officers of the mechanized force, have a minimum chance of survival at all. A minimum chance of survival! But you say here in every parliamentary debate that it is all right, there are no problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats and the People's Party! We bear responsibility for this as a people's representative. We still have the general obligation to do so in Austria. We, as representatives of the people, have to ensure that those young Austrians who commit themselves with the oath to defend the Republic with the weapon also have the chance of survival necessary to live up to this oath. You're not supposed to try all of this with beauties. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! You have not presented any concepts here. They have a military division New – in 1992 it was adopted – with a financial requirement of 1 percent of the gross domestic product. That was not achieved! They have not even implemented the 100 billion Schilling Investment Progamm in approaches. There is also no mention of the 34 000 basic military servants required. Federal Minister! Now they are putting forward a new army division. Since the implementation of the first army division, two years have passed since. Half a year before the likely next reorganisation, after the security policy decision, you are again uncertain of all the soldiers. They create a storm of indignation in all the federal states. There are your party guests too, Mr. Federal Minister! The Landtages in Vorarlberg, in Salzburg, in Styria, in Lower Austria and in Carinthia take, in part, unanimous decisions that will also turn your ÖVP colleagues against these reforms, a reform that lacks any reasonable basis. You have said – at least you have given it – why this is so. It would have been a situation change since 1992, you said. What was the change in the situation? – In the Committee you said that in 1992 there were still Russian troops in Germany. But these were troops who only organized their own deductions, Mr Federal Minister, there is no way of talking about a change of situation. In fact, you don't have the money you need to maintain at least an emergency operation for our federal army, and that's why you have to abolish functioning units – and that with a breach of law, Mr. Federal Minister. Yes, with a breach of law! In fact, they have broken the military law with the division of the army. Federal Minister! It is written in your decree – Mr. Federal Minister, this is held here, and it was signed not by a "sub-alternary officer", as you have said, but by the General Force Inspector: The Federal Minister has decided that a corps command will be removed, that only more than three hunting brigades will be used and so on. Federal Minister! You have made this decision, although you should have dealt with the Council of State Defense and the Council of Ministers before such a decision. You didn't do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They then said that these would have been only plans and not a decree. If so, I ask you, Minister of State: Why Give On account of a non-let-off, do you then make another decree that all these units, which are dissolved – this is the case in this case – are no longer allowed to take up any personnel and no more photographs of soldiers? Mr. Federal Minister, what's right now: Was the first decree a decree – then you told us the untruth here and then you broke the law – or was it not a decree, but only a planning basis – then at least the second decree was illegal. You should also give us clear information about this today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I'm just giving you an example of how we're going to send our basic defense servants into action. Although one has acquired splinter protection vests, only in a small number, but for the mass of our soldiers this is the "split protection", ladies and gentlemen a shirt of cotton – or not even cotton! [[the speaker shall take away a field blouse from the field bag taken to the speaker's desk and shall hold it in height]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is for a muli and not for a soldier!]] For the mass of the groundmen that is the carrier, that is the battle vest, with the help of which they have to carry 30 kilograms of luggage! [[the speaker shows a support frame]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Pants! It's a typhoid!]] And for the masses of soldiers in use, this rain-pelerine is the "protection" against nuclear and chemical weapons, Mr. Federal Minister! [[The speaker holds a rain protection in the height]] That's really a scandal! The Bundeswehr whistles out of all holes, but you drive around the world history and make games with some eastern groups and brigades! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! In conclusion: You know very well that, for us, the defence of the state is a very important concern that the German army represents an extremely important institution for us. You will always find an ally in us if you organize a real progress for national defence and for security policy, if you do so positively, though sometimes with unpopular measures. But you will find in us a vehement opponent if you continue to betray the ideas of the state defense out of your own interest, out of party political interest, and send our basic defence servants into a mission that they cannot survive due to your own actions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! It is about the credibility of our national defence, the willingness to use our federal army, and it is ultimately about the security of Austria in the future and also about the security of future generations. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] There is a need for action, and we will force you, as long as you take this place, to comply with this need for action.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e9332	In response to the urgent question, the Minister of State spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e9353	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Before I come to the answer to the questions you have raised, let me make some fundamental comments on the comments made by Mr Scheibner. I guess so. Your attitude, which has now been expressed and which you, as chairman of the Committee on Defence and Defence, are always expressing, and I fully agree that I agree with a number of statements made in your urgent question. [[Abg. Wabl: Very interesting! Little Coalition!]] However, there are also a few things, I must say, where opinions differ quite a bit. I have already given you an answer to some of your questions five times, not somewhere but in parliamentary bodies, whether it be in the main committee or in the national defence committee or in the Court of Auditors, but you always ask the same question and pretend that I would never have given you the answer. [[Call to the liberals: The answer is wrong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Because the plenary has a right to hear it!]] I believe that we should take note of this in the sense of a fair debate in Parliamentary operations and see that an answer given three times must also be taken into account accordingly. Now to the questions you have asked; I will answer them individually. I assume that Mr Jung will go along with it again, word for word. I hope that he will do this exactly, so that the answers will be available accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And tell his servant!]] It's a good idea if he does. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I hope he has enough time to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Is still a black man, his servant!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Dr. Haider) You don't understand my joke!]] The first question you ask is: Does Austria intend to support the implementation of the so-called "Petersberger Tasks" by the WEU within the framework of the enlarged CFSP? The answer is: Yes. – However, it must be noted at the same time that the Treaty of Amsterdam, in Article J. Paragraph 1 provides for a decision to be taken by the European Council by the European Council in connection with the crisis management tasks described in point 2 and in this case recommends that Member States adopt such a decision in accordance with their constitutional requirements. Also the relevant provisions of the WEU at the WEU Council of Ministers in Erfurt on 18 November. In November, it was adopted that there was no necessarily automatic participation in such operations. Each member of the EU shall determine whether or not it is involved in a specific operation, on the basis of its national and sovereign decision, and shall determine it accordingly on the basis of the specific situation, i.e. the present case. The next question you asked is: Is accession to the WEU possible from a factual point of view without becoming a member of NATO at the same time? There's a difference between opinions. However, the vast majority believe that it is not in fact possible to differentiate, i.e. it is not possible to join the WEU without joining NATO at the same time. As has been said, opinions are divided on this question: France takes the view that it would be very possible. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The ÖVP has long held this position!]] However, it can be seen that this probably has little prospect of taking account of the fact that, on the one hand, the WEU itself does not intend to build a second infrastructure for Europe, but, on the other hand, plans to use NATO's infrastructure in the event of a crisis, that the WEU itself also exercises the function of a hinge between the European Union and NATO and, on the other hand, NATO is ready and, in its decisions taken in Berlin last year, that it considers itself to be the organisation in which the European security and defence identity is to be established, so that the vast majority of the Member States assume that full membership should take place in parallel. The next question you have asked is whether, in my opinion, Austria should become a NATO member as soon as possible. I have come to know that what has been stated in the Government Declaration and the Government Convention, namely that German Chancellors, Foreign Ministers and Defence Ministers will, of course, provide a so-called "option report" at the latest in the first quarter of next year, including the timetable. On the other hand, I have never left a doubt that I believe that a clear policy should then be taken. I would fully agree with the timetable and with such a procedure. Your next question is: What are the disadvantages of Austria's failure to join NATO as a member? To this end, I must say: A response which is indeed meaningful for the entire government is certainly only to be expected when the option report is present, when there are agreed opinions. From my point of view, I can say that, as long as you are not a member, you have no opportunity to speak; I have already mentioned this. This means that important security policy decisions are taken without our influence. This is probably serious as to when such a decision should be taken. We must assume that important security policy choices will take place in Europe over the next few years, such as in the Balkans, but also in the relationship between Western Europe and Russia or Ukraine. In this respect, the question of when such a decision should be taken is not indifferent. It cannot be assumed that it should take place at some point in time, but it must be borne in mind that, of course, decisions of its own will also be pre-judicated by decisions of others; I have already said that. That is to say, the question of where one is dislodged, for example in NATO itself, or to what extent one belongs to the organization North or South, is not a question that is decided in isolation, but a question which is essentially also determined by others. I believe that Austria should no doubt participate in the security policy process – fully responsible and equipped with all possible means. I try to explain this in the way that one must assume that much of what we have been able to do in the past because of our neutrality policy in mediation services is in the future only possible if we are integrated into the various bodies if we sit at the same table with Russians and Americans, with Germans and French, with Czechs, Poland, Hungary and Italians. That's the essential thing for me. I think we should continue this successful policy. The question of when and in what form of organisation this will happen, I hope, will be clearly expressed in the option report. Its next question is whether membership of NATO as a security policy option was presented and explained by the representatives of the BMLV in the interministerial working group on the preparation of the so-called option report. Ladies and gentlemen! The talks about this are not complete. The analysis part of my knowledge is essentially completed from the basics. I can't say anything about the detailed work now. My employees do not have certain instructions to follow, but of course they decide because of their own personal assessment. You're an expert there. The political assessment will be determined by the Ministers and Ministries as a follow-up. On question 6: What are the benefits of participating in the so-called "PfP-plus" compared to a full NATO membership for Austria, and will Austria at least participate in the so-called "PfP-plus"? The question of the "enhanced partnership" is undoubtedly one that has already been raised because it has already been initiated by NATO's decisions in recent months. What are the advantages, which disadvantages and which differentiations result from them, for example, in comparison to membership, is certainly also an important part of the option report. The essential difference is certainly that of the right of co-determination or, on the other hand, of the rights and obligations arising from full membership, compared to those arising from loose involvement in a partnership. This is certainly the essential point. I have never, personally, left a doubt in this respect that I assume that belonging to a security organization such as NATO or the WEU is undoubtedly a maximum of security and that it is undoubtedly also more cost-effective overall and lasting if one does not organise the entire defence alone, but if one organizes it together with other countries. I have never had any doubt that, in view of our geographical and geostrategic situation near the Balkans, I think it is important that we have the opportunity to say so instead of perhaps one day going to Hungary, the Slovenians or the Czechs to express our concerns and perhaps get them enforced in the committees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References== Question: Does this also include fighting efforts to make peace against the will of a party? It must be said that an assessment of the extent to which such consequences are to be drawn should certainly take place only after the existence and consideration of all circumstances. This applies in general to the position of the government. From the point of view of the defence of the state, and when I try to answer this question directly, I can answer with a yes. This fact, however, has no effect on Austria insofar as, in accordance with the principle of self-difference, every single objective for operational cooperation is negotiated. In the case of defence, which in itself is perfectly normal and in Austria, as in any other country, of course, military action, Austria has a political reserve in its planning and review document agreed within the Federal Government, as I have already told you. This reservation has not only been accepted by NATO, but has simply been taken into account because there is no review of these types of operations by NATO. If the Federal Government decides that Austria will participate in all such operations in the future, there will be a corresponding adjustment here. Question 8, which reads as follows: How do you define the term "peace assurance" from the KSE-BVG?, I would like to answer as follows: In accordance with the report of the Constitutional Committee on the CSE-BVG, peacekeeping measures are in accordance with § 1 Z 1 lit. a KSE-BVG aims to contribute to the maintenance or restoration of peace and international security in accordance with the United Nations Statute. Question 9 refers to whether fighting operations for crisis management within the meaning of the "PfP-plus" and the "Petersberger Tasks" are covered by this term of the KSE-BVG. The answer to this question is: The implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty is still under discussion in the Federal Government. The debate process has not yet been completed, but I am convinced that this will soon be the case. We can then address all the questions raised in this regard very specifically. All in all, the simplicity can be said that the "Petersberg tasks" do not pose any problems, which is possible and permitted by our position in international law. To what extent there may be possible intermediate areas, as has been said, there is another question of discussion. The question 10 refers to whether the Federal Constitutional Act on the Neutrality of Austria is materially detogulated by the above ratifications. I would like to say, as I have just said, that some questions, such as whether the Amsterdam Treaty and the "PfP-plus" could be decentralized in this context, have not yet been fully debated within the Federal Government. What is essential to me is a definition of our neutrality, formulated by the Constitutional Committee of this House or the Federal Government after the end of the Cold War. I would like to quote them literally, so that there can be no doubt about this: "This Constitutional Provision" – Article 23f – "allows Austria to take part in decisions under the CFSP on sanctions against third countries, which is the most important example of which is economic sanctions. In addition, Austria's participation in action based on Chapter 7 of the United Nations Statute is, of course, still permitted. It should be assumed that there is no contradiction between the obligation of an EU Member State on the basis of Title V of the Treaty on European Union and the key elements of neutrality. Its accession to the European Union does not require Austria to participate in wars, nor does it have to join military alliances or agree to the establishment of military bases of foreign states in its territory. Therefore, this core stock of Austria's neutrality remains unaffected." That is to say, there is also a version accepted by this House, which is to be understood below. I would like to ask you, because it is time and again that questions arise, which are also very clear. The question 11 refers to whether there are absolute obligations of the constantly neutrals in accordance with the provisions of the international war law. – A clear yes is to be said, in accordance with the provisions of the 1907 Hague Convention, namely, point 5 and point 13 of this Convention. Question 12: What is the legal character of the Convention with NATO of 10 October 1989? February 1995?, to be answered as follows: The Austrian participation in the "Partnership for Peace" was justified by the formal acceptance of the invitation and the relevant framework document. The declaration of acceptance does not constitute a State Treaty within the meaning of Articles 50 and 65 B-VG, since the acceptance of the invitation does not constitute an obligation under international law and the framework document thus adopted has the character of a multi-page political declaration of intent. With the "PfP-SOFA" signed as a state agreement, the legal status of foreign military personnel in Austria and Austrian soldiers abroad is to be regulated. They ask again and again, to what extent, as a result of a political declaration of intent, there can also be agreements under international law. To this end, it is quite clear that, as a result of action, it can prove to be quite useful that certain specific rules should also be made by legislative decision, which, in the sense of the "PfP-SOFA", will also be ratified by Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But then you have no legal basis, Minister! You give the public the impression that you have a legal basis! You have to make this clear to Mr Gaál.]] The question 13 on the basis of which constitutional arrangements foreign soldiers may exercise in Austria could also be answered with a counter-question: What constitutional arrangements do they not allow themselves to stay in Austria? One could also say: There is no need for an explicit constitutional regulation! Of course, simple legal arrangements are necessary, and in each case – as far as residence, activity, the carrying of weapons et cetera – these will always be the subject of the relevant steps initiated and carried out in the approval procedure. Question 14 is: What are the costs for Austria by participating in the "PfP" and "PfP" measures, and what cost estimates do you have for participating in the "PfP-plus" measures? It is to be said that the expenditure currently amounts to about 8.5 million schilling and will be about 11 million schilling in the next few years. This list does not include the costs of other ministries, such as the Federal Ministry of the Interior. Question 15: What would it be likely to cost in the event of accession to the NATO for Austria? This has clearly demonstrated the example of the new accession countries – Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary. However, the experience assumes that we must expect that accession costs will be in the order of 2 to 3 percent of our current defence budget. Question 16 reads: What is the financial need of the Austrian Federal Army for the next ten years to meet the procurements provided for in the long-term investment programme? Is this financial requirement dependent on a decision on NATO accession? It is to be said that such a question is of course always dependent on which projects are being carried out at what time, and even when it concerns, for example, the procurement of interception hunters, whether they are to be used or new equipment, which type is to be purchased, and so on, so that it is relatively difficult at present, also because it is the most important and comprehensive procurement project to make a concreteization. In any case, however, it can be assumed that the Federal Government's investment needs are not dependent on accession to NATO, but on the contrary: We expect that the accession and joint organisation of defence in certain areas can even make cost savings, for example in the surveillance of airspace within the framework of the radar system, because it is also possible to rely on ground stations in neighbouring countries, or also when stockpiling in certain areas. Maybe you can also modify the number of fighters. It is also necessary to distinguish between the case of full membership and a situation in which this is not the case. I've already mentioned numbers for this. It must be assumed that we alone need a scale of 30 to 36. I can imagine that we will go down to a maximum of 18 to 24 if we are a member. In other words, there are quite a number of considerations to be considered. In any case, the result is that, in the case of a joint organization, defence is undoubtedly more cost-effective. The next question is: Why did you plan to re-establish the army before the outcome of the option report? Because, first of all, the conversion now planned is a result of the 1996 situation report, as you know, which has already referred to it, and secondly, after the discussion of this situation report in the High House – in the National Council as well as in the Federal Council – has responded accordingly to what is not affected by the option report. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President. - The next item is the report (Doc.]] Question 17: Can these procurements be made with the current share of GDP (0.85 percent)? This is undoubtedly a matter of vital importance, because we have a need for recovery and because we are undoubtedly also at a lower limit of expenditure, not only recently, but already since the beginning of this federal army. I must say that only thanks to the skill of the national defence workers has it been possible to take appropriate steps here. There is no doubt that in the future there will be a certain need to catch up, which must be taken into account, but depends on specific offers. That is what I would like to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Please reply!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Answers!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wabl.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I can tell you, for example, that we have almost gotten the JAGUAR rocket tank without any effort. [[Abg. Wabl: Gifted!]] We also bought the tanks at an extremely low price, because we had the opportunity to buy them very cheaply from the Dutch army. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt and Abg. Scheibner: Reply!]] Such offers are not included in the catalogue, nor are such offers to be estimated from the outset for a given year. To this end, the exact amount required cannot be mentioned with certainty for years in advance. [[Abg. Wabl: Approximate estimates! Not exactly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: At point 17, another question is open!]] The question 19 refers to how I decided to reorganise the ÖBH and to have it ordered by a alleged "sub-alternary officer", although no statutory consultation of the LV Council has been carried out for this purpose and the Federal Government has not taken a decision in this regard. In this House, I say it again and indisputably: I have given my employees the planning mandate to draw up a concrete proposal based on the preparation of the General Staff Group A, which, of course, must not only be discussed politically, but must also be prepared in such a way that, on the basis of discussions with the government partner or with the opposition parties, he can be the basis for a presentation to the Council of State Defense. That's the essential thing. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the second decree, Mr Minister?- Oh, my God!]] For the second time, I can tell you immediately: Of course, it is necessary to take precautions in such a situation when there are changes. I can tell you that I made hair exactly the same month before for the central office, for the ministry, where there should be no transfer et cetera, in order not to get into a situation where one simply finds a staff corset and in which it is much more difficult to make changes. [[Abg. Wabl: Ask for an answer! This is the instrument of the request!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Because the Wabl doesn't understand!]] The same applies to all upper commanders, and that is exactly what it is saying. You know: Our employees are prepared to adopt these measures, which are now under discussion, in the Council of State Defence and then to implement them accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Answer the question!]] However, a corresponding decision-making in the Council of State Defense and enforcement can only be made on the basis of a concrete proposal. It is the task of our general staff groups and the corps command to draw up this proposal, and that is what has been done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the Freeman and the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] You can comment on this, Madam President, I would like to comment on it once again. I would like to stress that it is not the first military assignment that I am carrying out, but already the second, and I also kept it the same as this time at the first time: We must first take precautions to enable these preparatory measures to be reorganised and to go into political discussions with a concrete proposal. What are some other proposals that should be made? Should we start to discuss at all in a political-level planning discussion? I emphasize: There are very clear ideas about this, and these have also been expressed. I have also informed the speakers of all political groups accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: What is the name of this "subaltern officer"? That would be interesting! Please spell!]] Question 21 reads as follows: In your view, what is the time frame for the further procedure for the decision-making of any conversion of the army? We will continue the talks with the government partner in the next few days. As soon as they are completed, we will deal with the other parliamentary parties and bring the outcome of these talks to the Council of State Defense. On the basis of the deliberations of the Council of State Defense, we will draw up a Council of Ministers' presentation to be decided by the Council of Ministers and subsequently implemented by the respective bodies of the Federal Army, as always. It is absolutely nothing new, but almost a routine matter, I can tell you, and that will in no way alter all that is now being presented, in any way, even a spark. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You have not answered the question yet!]] On the question 22: It is true that, of course, a general staff department thinks in several variants or debates several variants. We have then taken that variant, which was ultimately made due to a discussion process, as a basis for the planning process. What else happened to considerations in the room – whether one could come out with only one corps, whether the function of military commanders should be changed, whether one should make another brigade division et cetera – is of course a discussion, and I am willing to refer to it in the Council of State Defense and to justify why this one and not a different variant was ultimately used. I believe that this question should actually be sent to the Council of State Defense and not be discussed in plenary during a planning process that is still going on. I would ask you to understand this. On the question 23: In this respect, I have mentioned a scale of around 100 million schillings for operating costs, when appropriate rationalization measures can be implemented, which I assume to be. There is no doubt that it is a need to save on operating costs, to rationalise operating costs. From the very beginning, I have never left a doubt that I, as one of the private sector, attach great importance to the fact that we are implementing savings measures in this area. I also think it is absolutely necessary to review the organization every three to five years in order to bring it to the best possible efficiency, because only then is it ensured that taxpayers' money is used to the best possible extent and that at least a maximum of security can be obtained from existing, undoubtedly unfavourable resources for national defence. I can only say: So far, this path has been quite successful, precisely because in recent years we have been able to go through very concrete purchases, whether it be the strengthening of artillery, whether it be the procurement of the steering weapons – ground, air-floor and air-air – or whether it is the purchase of the new battle tank, the rocket tank or also the PANDUR, even though it is only 68 pieces and we undoubtedly still have some to add. It has continued to be decisive in recent years, because we are saving iron, and we will continue this course with all the follow-up. Of course, we will have to take part in the saving course of the Federal Government. However, despite savings, we will ensure that at least small investments are made and progress is made so that the need for recovery, which has undoubtedly been available since 1955, can be systematically regulated in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Question 24: ==References====External links== It is not to be dissolved, but to pass the leadership task from three commanders to two commanders, with the same number of battalions. Of course, the tried-and-tested command of the 9. Panzergrenadier brigade will not be dissolved, but, as you know, this will be the basis for a new command foreign operations, because it is necessary to actually create capacity in this area. [[Abg. Scheibner: (keeping a brochure in height) For this concept!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Question!]] We must work there with the highest quality, and we should also be able to have the capacity to reorganise cooperation with Hungary, with the Czechs, with the Slovenians. [[Abg. Scheibner: (obvious to the brochure) That's what you want to do!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Answer question!]] There are no special features. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is important for us to be able to use the leadership capacity we have there in order to achieve maximum efficiency in any case and for future projects. What the III. As regards corps, I can say that, of course, at the same time as the other corps also the III. Corps has been involved in the discussions and, of course, its proposals and suggestions are taken into account. The command of the III. Corps has even received a special order, namely to carry out the planning for the most efficient transmission of these three commanders of the tank guard brigades, which have so far led two battalions, to two commanders, each leading three battalions, which is also in line with the international standard. What we are doing is adapting to the international standard to make the best use of existing capacities. There is no way in this process if we do not want to have a stoned structure, which, in some cases, tries to resolve the problems of the future in terms of resources and structure, with methods from the time of the Cold War. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: It's about the procedure!]] I can tell you that no one will get over it, even if one tries to take advantage of the situation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Every change – I know – is unpleasant. It is unpleasant for those concerned at the moment when it is pronounced. However, I can tell you from experience that the people soon afterwards expect it to be very valuable to them. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You have apparently not covered the system of urgent inquiry!]] I have already carried out such military conversion. There was not only recognition of this right after the changeover, but people knew that it was the right decision – and that is the case now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Don't make any election speeches!]] On question 25: Geography has not changed, but the geostrategic situation has changed. And the corps command... [[Abg. May. Stadler: How?]] I can tell you very clearly what has changed: In the meantime, an East Shift of the Red Army has undoubtedly taken place, reducing the capacity in this area – not only in Russia itself, but also in Ukraine. A change in the geostrategic situation has also resulted from the inclusion of Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary into NATO – it is at least imminent. It has changed a lot even by our entry into the EU. But it has changed a lot around the world. The new dangers are more evident, as I have already done this in the morning, when you think about Iraq. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then we can disband the Ministry of Defence!]] And today we know more safely about the security zone of the Balkans than it was a few years ago. Geography hasn't changed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Save Minister of Defense!]] On the other hand, I do not understand that you want to save on the top level of three commanders of one. If one wants a truly efficient leadership and at the same time we are able from our future tasks to refrain from using existing capacities more effectively elsewhere, I really wonder: Why aren't you for that? [[Abg. Scheibner: We are for this, but a military leadership belongs to your resort so that the chaos ceases!]] Why aren't you for that? Why Give You don't agree, why don't you make that clear? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the question 26: I say it again: The 9th. Panzergrenadier brigade as such is not dissolved. We currently have three tank-grenadier brigades: the 9th, the 4th and the 3rd. The 9th is located in the Brucker room, the 3rd essentially in the center of Lower Austria and the 4th in Upper Austria. According to international standards, the command of a armored brigade leads three battle battalions – with us they carry two. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Mr. Minister, that's not true! The 9th leads three!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: One leads three!]] This was a situation which resulted from the period of the Cold War and in which certain geographically limited tasks should be implemented accordingly in the case of crisis. Today this situation has changed, and we are therefore in a position to reorganise it. I say it again: This tried-and-tested command, and also the management body, should not be dissolved, but added to a new task. If you ask me, this will be one of the most attractive tasks within the federal army at all: the management of foreign operations and at the same time being a nucleus for cooperation with the neighbouring countries in an area where this has already been relatively far-reaching. I just think that we are already working with the Slovenian army, with the Hungarian army, with the Slovak army in operation, namely in Cyprus and on the Golan. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't be serious! You want to send her to combat!]] On questions 27 and 28: The listing of the percentage filling of the associations in the 1996 Situation Report was not a taxable list. The corresponding brigades were of course also listed. Moreover, these figures would not have led to a significant change in the percentage of staffing positions, so that there would have been nothing special to derive from them. No doubt this means, however, that we have to deal in particular with the respective associations and units where the framework stands are present in a satisfactory way, whatever we will do in the future. On question 29: For me, regional and local opinions are of course self-evident. When it comes to the question of whether the infrastructure should remain the same, the mayor of the region, the Heads of State, Land Days and Governments of the State and, of course, I would like to include these opinions in my considerations. I am sure that the Council of State Defense will do the same – that is not a one-sided matter – simply to plan the best of military efficiency while taking regional policy reasons and circumstances into account. Question 30: I have already pointed out that the command of III. Corps had a specific task and, of course, the opinions of III. Corps, like those of the other two corps, are accordingly included in the considerations. On question 31: That is a very important question for us. The aim is to reduce the overall mobility framework, which is now 120 000 plus 20 percent of reserves, to about 150,000 men. If one assumes, at the same time, that a reduction will be made automatically in the next few years due to the natural departure and, so to speak, non-conform force in the early years, one can see that this change will result, as it were, in the course of the next few years. I do not expect any corresponding impairment of the organizations or the individual militants. In my opinion, the militia now and in the future has a very important position – not only because it adds additional capacity to the army, but also because our army has a strong military component. If you look at the 110 000 men, you will see that the relationship between military soldiers and professional soldiers will continue to be a ratio of one multiple to one in the future – the exact number will only be determined – so that you can assume it for the future. This is also the difference to other considerations. Other parties have made considerations which are based on quite different militias, which are much smaller, such as the model presented by the press by the honourable Member Gaál. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your clubman is asleep, Minister!]] I believe that the militia should continue to have a very important position in the future, and I therefore voted in favour of it being taken into account not only in the organization, but also in the context of the overall framework. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr President. The questions asked appear to be answered. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Exhaustively answered!]] [[Abg. Wabl: That's the right expression!]] I am sure that the opposition still has yours to say about this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10021	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. We are going into the debate. The debate opens up to Mr Jung. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10048	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, we have had the pleasure many times today, so I can join almost seamlessly. They have just said a lot about the concrete points, but have avoided a real statement. I am therefore going to ask for a question. You complained about Mr Scheibner asking five times and you have to reply again and again. The worst thing is: We ask five times, that's right, but it just takes so long to get the answer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll give you an example: I asked you early today what your relationship to a future changed kind of operations, i.e. combat missions, looks like. Now you have been grateful – there was the third or fourth question in this direction – given an answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You see, you have to ask your minister very often until he manages to bring out the answer. But before I come to individual points I would like to address your reply to a central problem that exists in this government, which was actually the reason for our request. Mr Gaál said today that there was no NATO accession to the SPÖ, even after the option report. You don't think so. Your party observer and foreign minister said in the "standard", we now have to decide to join NATO. Moving the decision to the next legislative period would be a risk to the country's security situation. If this is said by the Foreign Minister of a country, it is thought that this is a serious risk to the country's security situation. Now let me ask you a question again, Minister: What's going to be You do if the SPÖ does not agree? Voices Are you at risk to the safety of Austria, or are you taking the consequences and finally doing something and not just announcing, Mr Minister? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] That is quite the case inside, but if the Minister continues to do so, he will no longer be taken seriously. It is clear to me that there is also a problem in this regard within the SPÖ. There are also strong differences of opinion between Realos and Fundis. The government under pressure from abroad knows where the car is going in the long term. That's not avoidable, all of you know that up there. And the fundis are trying to prevent this and will be able to delay this for a while. [[Abg. Wabl: Cap-Realo!]] It's hard once you've called "Ho Chi Minh" to join NATO suddenly, I understand. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] But sometime you have to solve this problem in the sense of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition. You can't save that! [[Abg. Arbitrators: We have always been afraid of your analyses!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] See, my colleague. I am pleased that I am at least talking to you. Minister! You said there was no review of the types of operations in Austria. [[Abg. Wabl: What did you call?]] Now it would be interesting to know what reviews have already taken place and what reviews will be carried out in the future. That's what you've told us. Although you mentioned the reservation – what kind of reservation is, we were very happy to know. I will go further to your remarks. They accused us of having three corps commanders. That's by no means true, look into our military concept! Some of the things your employees have written down anyway, but unfortunately they have not taken out the most important things. A very simple thing: They said that this corps command was superfluous due to the development of the situation. That is true, only this corps command was unnecessary before it was created in 1993 because the change in the situation occurred in 1989, 1990 and 1991. When we asked you why it was abolished, you didn't talk about the Wehrgeography, but you said – and that's hair-threwing, you have to have it broken down on the tongue by yourself from the diction –: In 1993, the Red Army was still in the middle of Germany. So please, Mr Minister, if this is heard by your fellow ministers of the Ministers, you, as the long-time Minister of Defence of Europe, have no further reputation in this area. This is the division of 1945 that you use here, far away from reality! On neutrality: Mr. Federal Minister, neutrality is a question of international law, which is certainly not the coalition. The other outside doesn't matter as long as any objections are raised by you who touch them themselves. But in principle, it's a thing defined by international law, and you can't shake and shake it. There are provisions, and we have committed ourselves to neutrality according to the model of Switzerland – that has already been said. Accession costs: Here too, you've lulled us with honey, Minister. 2 to 3 percent of the budget: That's right – but that's just the member's contribution. According to the equipment, we are an army of backers, Mr Minister, especially as regards the air sector. We have enormous need for resurgence, and we will have to pick it up, otherwise we will have no chance to get in there. Don't tell the Austrians fairy tales again, and afterwards, like the EU, the euro and everything else, you suddenly face the finished facts and are completely amazed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Just to the euro you should be silent!]] Mr Khol! They have already put neutrality in the tabsnacle, and now at once it is quite different again. You don't know anything about defence policy anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Watch your hand movements!]] On the need to catch up, Minister: You have admitted that this exists, and at the same time you have said that you have to take part in the savings course. How you want to close this gap, you didn't say. You said: There is a need to catch up. If you, as Minister, recognize this as an essential necessity – you have been saying that for years now – then you finally have to do something about it, or you have to admit that you have failed as a minister, and you have to take the hat and go. So it may not be that you constantly recognize serious things, but do nothing anyway. You told us: We bought combat tanks cheaply, almost given. That's right. But what about the ammunition? Even there we have already asked three or four times if ammunition was obtained in sufficient quantity. According to our information, this is not the case. We can remunition once, the tanks once fully loaded, but when the judges have shot, it's out of it. After the first training course, half is gone. If it's different: Tell us at last, Minister. Four or five times we've asked you. Once you sent the General Corrieri out of the committee and then told us that, although this cannot be answered at once, it will be answered. It's been weeks. We still do not have your answer, Minister. Then you say: We have to ask five questions. This shows how you deal with this House and with the Members of Parliament, and that is why we practice our criticism. [[Abg. Wabl: Exceptionally, he is right!]] But then you complain that we are criticizing you as well as the Greens. You also criticize them, but for other reasons. That's the difference. You also did not answer our question, in which we would like to know who this ominous, subalternal officer is, who signs the issues in your ministry. You didn't answer that either. Maybe you can get that back. ==References====External links== Brigade: Yes, Minister, it is true that the battalions remain. But it's almost absurd: So far, there have been about 160 or 170 combat tanks in Austria, and we will have 114 in the future. However, there are also many battalions and equally many companies. They said we should not break our heads about how these companies are divided. We are therefore breaking our heads because we fear that one of your solutions will come back, Mr Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, the pioneer question, as I am in the ranks: You said that there would be enough people to use the flood. That is true, Mr Minister, but it will not be the qualified skilled staff who can fulfil the tasks. There will be no pioneers, and even no trained ones, when an unfavourable date of entry comes. That's why you can't move around, because that's the reality and the consequence of your new division. – As far as this area is concerned. One last area – unfortunately, Mr Karlsson is not here, because she would certainly have a higher blood pressure now – is the issue of the target review. What does that look like? – I have this training goal from a NATO document. [[The speaker keeps a brochure up to date.]] You said it wasn't checked. I don't know. It says: The force must be able to perform successful attack operations at day and night against enemies in a prepared position and up to battalion strength in the installed and open terrain. The ability to coordinate fire, i.e. artillery support and air support must be ensured. That sounds good, and I hope people can. The question is: Who checks the whole thing, and what about neutrality when it should be checked, Mr Minister? – I really don't understand that. Because you keep keeping us from criticizing you: I assume that the name Dr. Michael Schaffer is not quite unknown to you and colleagues Khol – he is no longer here either. It does not come from the ranks of the ÖVP, but from elsewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You promised! Of course he's from the ÖVP!]] He writes to you on behalf of the Milizverbands a letter about your military structural reform: He calls this a sluggish breach of the constitution, Mr. Minister! He also writes: Of course, the primacy of politics applies to the Milizverband. If the People's Office in Parliament decides and introduces a professional army, it is. However, we are opposed – I can fully sign this – to the fact that the Minister and some of his professional troops in the Ministry of Defence are doing their military sandboxes beyond the Constitution and are withdrawing military power from the people. This is not what the FPÖ says, not what honourable Member Jung says, but what Dr. Michael Schaffer, Chief of the Intent Dance Service, says, and probably not quite unknown to you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: From the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: A solid black man!]] Federal Minister! That's probably not the way to go, that can't be the future! We said: We are not against NATO membership, Federal Minister. We support accession under clean conditions: with a clean financial planning, with the consent of the Austrians and with the approval of this House. Don't go past us! We do not like this, Mr Minister, and we will not give you any rest in the future, even if you do not answer our questions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10244	Mr Moser has referred to an actual correction. Please ask for the facts to be corrected and for the actual facts, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10290	Mr President. The Minister of State for Defence has claimed that the three tank guard brigades each have only two battalions. I'm correcting: That's wrong. The 9th. Panzergrenadierbrigade has three combat battalions, namely the tank battalion 33, the tank battalion 35 and the hunting tank battalion 1. So it meets the international standard. I am therefore surprised that you are currently trying to disband this association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10320	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. Time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10403	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This request was actually to be expected. After the Greens made a current hour on this subject in the early days, this could not leave FPÖ resting. This issue should also be theirs, so the urgent question had to come. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr Schieder! That's wrong! We wanted to bring them in yesterday, but there were the greens in front of us!]] You're making it worse. The greens were brighter and viver than you, you want to say. This is an intermediate call that testifies to an honesty to be mentioned in this House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Call the liberals:Learn the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With noise, don't solve this problem. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But the Rules of Procedure look at you, please!]] Most of the questions you have raised have been related to the army itself. I am not going to comment on this because this is the subject that our experts from the Committee and our spokesperson will be discussing later. The other questions, those raised in the field of foreign policy, which – I would like to say almost: partly inadequately, although it is interesting to hear his opinion on this – have been addressed to the Minister of Defence, were partly very interesting. In my opinion, the issue of SOFA was also important. For colleagues who always smile a little: SOFA is not a western divan or Atlantic Ottoman, but the abbreviation for "Status of Forces Agreement", i.e. that agreement between the NATO states and us in the "Partnership for Peace", which regulates what happens when exercises take place in Austria. [[Abg. Jung: This is the 1951 NATO troop statute for stationing, Mr. Cot.]] No, it's not for us! For us as a non-member, this is a treaty that regulates this for our country. It is true that this question would probably be easier to assess in the Committee, even if membership in the "PfP" itself would have been decided in Parliament. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: However!]] That was, as we have heard, not necessary by law. However, I could personally welcome the fact that, if this makes it all easier and more understandable for Parliament, we will consult everything under one another. I ask that it be considered whether this would be perhaps a process which, in your opinion, is not necessary and necessary, but which would be reasonable for the procedure in Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am particularly concerned about the two statements. That's going to be 13th. Mr President, ladies, if the Committee on Foreign Affairs advises on this matter, it will be necessary to review it. We will hear from the experts on which It is thus ensured that these declarations are actually accepted and accepted by the other countries. It is important to ensure that no one in Austria can resort to the death penalty for his soldiers. We deeply reject that. It is also important with regard to the weapons used. It is interesting that no one has raised the question in this regard as to the death penalty – at least its theoretical possibility – for Austrian soldiers when they participate in "PfP" exercises in other countries. As far as I know, we have also given notes on this matter. It would be interesting to know who has already accepted it. I do not want to say that this danger is real, but only theoretically we should not suspend a single officer – although I do not want to assume that he commits a crime threatened with the death penalty – for example, when participating in a course in the United States, if the United States has not accepted our note in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is not known to me, but it would in any case be to examine a shipment of "PfP" from your place of business, Mr Minister, in the interest of preventing a marginal yet theoretical danger to Austrian citizens. As far as foreign policy is concerned, the main part of the debate has affected the question of neutrality. It was clear that, of course, the liberals want to bring this up again, as well as others, because they know that this question will come to Parliament with the Federal Government's report on options and will be discussed here in the next spring. Of course, from the opposition's point of view, we still want to ask constantly what their right is. [[Abg. Scheibner: You didn't pay attention to this morning!]] It is clear that through the Federal Constitutional Act, Austria has made provision for accession as a neutral state of the European Union and for its participation in the EU's common foreign and security policy on the basis of the Treaty on EU. As we know, our country is ready and able to fulfil its obligations from neutrality, its obligations as a member of the European Union and its obligations arising from its membership with other international institutions, such as the UN, the OSCE and the Council of Europe, in a contractual, meaningful and solidarity manner, and it has supplemented it with membership in the "Partnership for Peace". If you say that we do not see NATO taking a certain development, I am going to: No, we also see the positive development of NATO. Whether it is called "NATO-New" or not is certainly a purely definition question. NATO, of course, has remained at its core a military alliance with the major obligations of Articles 5 and 6. However, a new, positive tool of flexible structures with new answers to questions of European security has been added – and I say so – to this effect: the "Partnership for Peace" and its extended form with the Euroatlantic Partnership Council. By cooperating in both forms of partnership, the states – including Austria and its inhabitants – are giving and receiving the solidarity that was rightly demanded. Membership in NATO itself is neither necessary nor recommended – in my personal opinion – for Austria. The question will in any case be discussed here after a report by the Federal Government next year. In this context, policy is often kept in mind that it is one of their shortcomings not to have visions. But if you develop goals, they are qualified as mere utopian desires. Also the danger of exposing me to the latter accusation: A European security system of the future must be more than the mere accession of all European states to a military pact if it is to be prepared to cooperate with NATO, with all its willingness to participate actively in the Partnership for Peace. The aim is to establish a contractually agreed system of pan-European security, which sets out international law, international order and preventive conflict prevention instead of military conflicts. I personally hope that Austrian politics, based on the report in the spring of next year, will be committed to this direction and will work for this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10543	Mr Scheibner referred to an actual correction. I draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and to the duration of a maximum of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10567	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, the honourable Member has claimed that the reason for today's urgent request of the liberals...... was the current hour of the Greens and that the liberals wanted to occupy this subject. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No! That I suspect him! What I suspect you can't correct! You can't correct my presumption!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This has been my presumption!]] I'm actually correcting that. The reasons for this urgent request were: first, the complete chaos in security policy, second, a whole series of international agreements...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10607	Deputies! A Member's opinion, why another group does or does not do something, a presumption... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not correct!]] Ladies and gentlemen, speak to the end. We will once again discuss the actual corrections in the President-in-Office. But you can't correct assumptions.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10647	In any case, the reason for our urgent request was the current situation in both security policy and the state defence. Secondly, Mr Arbitrator said that we had not tabled the urgent question yesterday, because the Greens would have been much better, and that would have been a failure of the liberal club. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Second, I didn't say!]] I'm actually correcting that. Mr. Schieder! It was not possible to submit the urgent request yesterday, as § 57b Abs. 1 of the Rules of Procedure provide that only one urgent question can be put on a part-session. The Abs. 2 of this section: If urgent treatment is required in respect of several requests, the request for the club will be made, in which the last urgent request requested will be left behind for a longer time. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Right! But you could have brought her in!]] That was the green club, Mr. Schieder. [[Abg. Arbitrators: She would not have been treated, but you could have brought her in!]] If you know that the green club had already announced this in advance, then you will see why we had to make the urgent request today.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10749	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10770	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I have to say to colleagues. In his last sentences, he spoke of a political security community with all the instruments of crisis prevention for Europe and beyond for the world. This, Mr Schieder, is the new NATO which you have described. Thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Of course you are wrong! A military pact can't be that!]] That, of course, is part of that. [[Abg. Arbitrator: A military alliance can't be that!]] Precaution and enforcement power is a unit, otherwise it is unfortunately for nothing. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But founded on right and not on a pact.]] Of course! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Abg. Wabl: Like Turkey, for example!]] But we will discuss it in detail. [[Abg. Wabl: How Turkey!]] This morning we had an hour to discuss a possible NATO accession to Austria. Today, Federal Minister Fassleven took a detailed and relevant position – and also on the current urgent matter. Why the FPÖ makes an intensive ongoing discussion on the subject of external security policy urgent on the same day, Mr Scheibner has tried to explain. I think there are some other options. Perhaps the FPÖ is trying to drive a rope between the government parties on this issue. [[Abg. Wabl: No! Never!]] You won't succeed! We express our disagreements openly and have common objectives that you can read in the work programme of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: No gears! There are tanks in between! Whole barrels are in between!]] Or is this comprehensive presentation in your request, which is very interesting and was written with very great effort, but with lots of If and But is provided, the slow farewell of the pro-NATO line of the FPÖ? [[Abg. Scheibner: Please read our party program, Mr. Cot!]] I hope that it will not be the same as in Austria's accession to the EU, because at the beginning the liberals were there, in the middle still for it, and when it became serious, they were against it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Let's try the nail! You only need to agree to our requests!]] So I hope it won't be that way this time. I'm glad it won't be like that this time. Or do you want to distract with the urgent to NATO entry of the very modest result of the liberal anti-euro popular desire? As one can see from the figures, the pulling force of the Haider party is not what it once was. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Just no envy!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] The foreign people's desire in 1993 still had 416 000 signatures...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10934	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, Mr Maitz is on the floor, and many more words are still on the table. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e10961	The anti-Euro people's desire had only more than 254 000 signatures. That was a very special kind, and you want to distract from it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have not debated the situation report of the Federal Government in detail here in this Parliament very long ago. All parties have explained their security positions in detail during the budget debate. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What kind of quark is that that you're patting?]] The adaptation of the new military division is on the agenda of the Council of State Defense in exactly one week. The objective, professional and political discussion... – Let something new come to mind, that is already such an old saying! [[Abg. Haigermoser: After this speech, it is clear to me that you are no longer Klubobmann in the Styria!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't know where you were anywhere before, but it's a shame you didn't stay there. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I will send this speech to Klasnic!]] The National Defence Council, the joint advisory body between the Federal Government, the parliamentary parties and the military leadership, will take the next step in adapting the new military division, and this discussion is in full technical and political progress. I am sure that we will find a very good and sensible solution again, as was the last time, for the country and for the army. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Since Mr Jung has been in the Defence Committee, the chairman has often had to look at the side because it is so difficult with him. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I said it today and will say it again and again: The aim of the People's Party is to ensure the best possible external security in the future. The alternatives are: Pure neutrality or NATO New. Pure neutrality according to Swiss patterns, you know that is, lonely and expensive, NATO-Neu is called jointly and cost-effectively. We from the People's Party are in favour of a wise negotiation. We have a lot to offer to this NATO, and we also have a lot of security to expect from this NATO, combined with all the rights and obligations to work together for peace and freedom. Let me tell you once again: The first goal is to spare our children and grandchildren the scourges of a warlike conflict. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I hope that this one goal will be linked to all the ladies and gentlemen of this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11069	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11093	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to get into the debate right now. This urgent question today has again shown how necessary it is for us to have a comprehensive discussion in this House on the country's security prospects. I really regret that we will only come to this debate if the parliamentary possibilities are exploited on the part of the opposition. Obviously, the government parties want to postpone the debate and delay it until the option report, and then it will play out as it has been in the past: The government parties have agreed, then the subject comes into the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which meets for one or two hours, and then the matter is over. I mean, that's the wrong approach. I believe that it is really necessary to put the facts on the table in a fair and open debate, to listen to arguments and also to accept arguments, so that this very essential question comes to a broad political consensus for this country. Mr Maitz. There is no need to create a bulwark between the government parties in matters of security policy, because the two government parties are so far from each other in their positions in this respect that one can actually think that there is no really a single policy in any case. On the question of neutrality or accession to a European security system. Mr Maitz. We have met in various political discussions, and we have experienced this black and white painting over and over again, we have heard from you, there are only two options: Pure neutrality or accession to NATO. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: NATO-New!]] NATO-New, too. I believe that this is a very narrow and limited way of thinking, because within this range there are very likely a variety of options and a variety of options that we can choose. I think it is very important to recognize and accept that the security debate and the development of Austrian security policy are a dynamic process, but we must start with this dynamic process. The beginning of this dynamic process should be from our point of view that, since we have been a member of the European Union since 1995, we are taking advantage of the opportunity of membership of the European Union to become a member of the Western European Union. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I think we should strive for this membership in the knowledge that, at the end of this dynamic development, this dynamic process may well involve integration into a larger European security system or, if it is to be, membership in NATO, but we must start this discussion process, this political process at first. Austria should play a pioneering role here. This position should be developed within the framework of the European Union, as the European Union is also responsible for security policy on the continent. This European Union has a responsibility for a common foreign and security policy, and to develop it must be a priority, and this is also one of those, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We therefore see in our membership of the Western European Union a very important aspect, because this membership, on the one hand, involves equal expenditure. We also have the opportunity to face threats, whatever their nature, together with the European Community, and, on the other hand, through this membership, we have the opportunity to co-design and develop. We should make use of these co-design possibilities in order to ensure that the Western European Union takes a step forward, which Mr Schieder has already cut down and pointed out here today. We should develop the existing structures at European level so that we actually get more than membership within a military alliance, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is therefore really unfortunate that this approach to European security structures – and I have already said that this morning – is taking place in the framework of a secret diplomacy and that the whole thing is passing through Parliament. Federal Minister! It is also a co-responsible for this. They particularly promote membership of NATO, and all these contracts, which have so far been concluded with NATO, have been passed by Parliament here. These are contracts that require Parliament's participation and referral. But since we cannot discuss and advise on this, do not do anything good with your constant demands. As long as the existing cooperation with NATO within the framework of the Peace Partnership is not disputed in this House, of course all further discussions with a view to further development will be of little use and little use. That is why my appeal to you to act on your Foreign Minister, who is primarily responsible for finally presenting the documents to Parliament. Mr. Mock signed the NATO Framework Document on the Partnership for Peace. Mr. Foreign Minister Schüssel signed the introduction document. Foreign Minister Schüssel signed the individual partnership document. He signed the security agreement. These are all agreements that regulate the cooperation of the State community with Austria. These are all issues relating to public interest, all issues relating to the sovereignty of Austria concerning territorial integrity – and you act as if this were not a matter of Parliament's participation. I think that is a question of Parliament's participation. It is a political state treaty, if not a legislative or legislative one, and therefore we want to see these documents. I appeal to you if this development towards European security structures is really at your heart that you are making a contribution so that we can discuss these documents and the contents of these documents in Parliament accordingly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! On another question you are directly affected, because there are not only agreements with NATO, but there are also a number of other agreements with neighbouring countries, with states or with friendly armies. They are referred to as the Convention of Directors. I'll tell you: These are also state agreements that must be negotiated in Parliament, because they are very likely to affect sovereignty. I am totally unconstitutional if you say here today, as part of the answer to the urgent question, that we need no constitutional basis at all for foreign troops to carry out exercises in Austria. I ask you: How do you really stand on the sovereignty of the country? How do you really stand about the territorial integrity of Austria? That you find nothing at all when suddenly foreign troops in Austria complete their exercises, I cannot understand at all. I think it is very important to have legal standardisation, a legal regulation, and this requires the referral of the National Council. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the question of military reform, which has been cut short. Federal Minister! With your approach – and I say this consciously once again, because you presented it in the committee as if it were not as defined – you have deliberately broken the legal procedure. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is legally established that you have decided and arranged the implementation. It is clear that the concrete military planning process must already be initiated. And it is clear that concrete personal measures already need to be taken, namely that these associations do not...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11163	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11178	... can take appropriate personnel measures. So you've signaled that it's a decided thing for you. And the political discussions you want to hold are actually just a pretext. The fact is, and I do not understand at all, that social democracy can be adept at this kind of behaviour. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11211	The next speaker is Mrs Kammerlander. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11233	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. So if I look at the rather empty benches at the liberals, I can only put it in the same way as the swivel that obviously goes ahead. They seem to be the last sincere NATO advocates here. The rest of your group does not seem to be very interested. That's how I see it. [[Abg. Böhacker: The topic already, but your statements are not!]] - It's not about my statements, it's about your urgents you brought in. That's the point. But one thing has urgent questions in itself that they do bring to light something new or worth knowing. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's the point!]] But it always fails, Mrs. Colleague. But I am trying to figure this out just because, in my opinion, your colleague Jung did not do it enough, namely the one point of the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In answering the question of whether you are also in favour of entering NATO as fast as possible, you have exercised surprising restraint, therefore surprising for me, because you have always expressed yourself on various occasions, whether at events or other public events, whether in newspaper interviews, as a glowing advocate of a NATO accession as fast as possible. I wonder what is really the reason for your reluctance, which you show here, when you hide behind the option report and say: Let's wait for the option report to come, and we'll see about it. However, you are rightly asked on the other hand, as far as the various agreements are concerned, because you are one of the most powerful advocates in this Federal Government for the speedy accession of NATO. We know, of course, that, Mr Arbitrator, that the current Foreign Minister and the former Foreign Minister are those who have signed the various agreements and contracts, but you are the one in the government who, as has been said, makes repeated progress in this regard on the various occasions. Before I refer to our motion for a resolution, which we do not, on the other hand, introduce for the first time, which calls for these agreements to be finally forwarded to Parliament, I would like to address the remarkable answer from you to one of the last questions of this urgent question. That is the question of what will actually be the most important task of the federal army in the future. You really said: The main task of the German army in the future will be to be capable of fighting abroad and to carry it out. Minister! Look, this morning I told you this, this morning I told you: If, in the event of a change in the Wehrgesetz as a new task and function of the Federal Army, peacekeeping is achieved and it serves as a description of the function of the German army, then this is nothing but to make this federal army fit to carry out combat operations abroad. Your group has roared up what an immense assumption this is. And now, please, a few hours later, answer yourself: The main task of the German army in the future will be – as your minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – to be able to carry out combat operations abroad. This is the NATO preparation. This is the first step in NATO preparation. Because I can only say it again: NATO sees nothing more than increasing use of out of area, outside Europe, and accordingly not only to upgrade, to convert, but also to specialize in the troops. I find this remarkable, Mr Minister, because I do not believe that this is in any way compatible with neutrality and with the Constitution, but also with the previous understanding of national defence. The current and still existing understanding of national defence is the defence of this country, primarily and exclusively the defence of this country! It is not at all the task, Mr Minister, to be able to carry out fighting operations abroad – non-peace-keeping measures, not peace-keeping measures, not UN missions, but you have spoken of fighting actions literally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Read the Minutes, Mrs Colleague. Your Minister said: "Afflictions abroad." That's worth a mistrust, I'll tell you! And if he is not put today, he will take place once again because you obviously have no idea of the assignment you have received as Minister if you give such answers here today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: You have!]] They obviously have no understanding at all of what the federal army's task is and will be in the coming years, as long as there has been no decision here and as long as there has been no referendum in the direction that neutrality is abandoned and that accession to a military alliance takes place, which then carries out such efforts. But we're not that far! Even if you want to do what you have said today at the beginning of your speech, we are not so far! And that is why we seem so alarming that we do not receive the various agreements. That is why we are so concerned that we do not receive a framework agreement, even if it is only a political declaration of intent. So why don't we get this political statement of intent? Can anyone explain this to me? If you are not the Foreign Minister, you are a member of the Federal Government. Do you agree that we are getting this political statement of intent, which is nothing that supposedly does not involve any commitments? It only takes on an entire rat tail of commitments: Contracts, agreements, statute of troops, settlement agreements and so on. It is nothing which results in a large number of contracts, and we then suddenly find one or more in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, such as the NATO troop statute, which, first of all, has been expressly based on the framework document and, secondly, expressly stated that this agreement is constitutional in itself and in its Article 1. That's going to be held there. There is now a reservation from the Austrian Federal Government, but we do not know how NATO or the United States will react to this reservation. This federal government is so ignorant of Parliament that we do not get to know all this information – they have already been listed – at all. On the one hand, they are losing beautiful words out here, which is all necessary and important, that it is not at all the question whether NATO accession or not, but on the other hand, they are talking about fighting at the same time as the most important task of the federal army. Minister! You have to explain to us once again how you meant that and how you can still agree with your oath, which you have finally made on the Constitution. In order to be finally informed of all these agreements, which are nothing but declarations of intent, I would like to make the following request once again: [[Quoted print version removed]] In addition, you have once said in the Committee: For my part, there are only agreements, and they are insignificant. But three days later, at a next committee meeting, you declared that there were no agreements. We would simply like to have these "small things" on the table, whether you consider them significant or not. The assessment of what is important and what is not, you can quietly leave us parliamentarians. We are still those who decide, and we are only the representatives here, who can and should decide on it – and not you! I can only repeat what I said this morning when I was so offended by your colleagues: That is why we want these agreements, because you then stand there and declare that the main task of the German army is the fights abroad. - That's not to listen to!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11329	The motion for a resolution, drawn up by Mrs Kammerlander, has been properly tabled and will be put to the vote at the end of the debate. Mr Schöggl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11353	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Maitz said that the attempt of the liberals to drive a security-political wick into the coalition was the intention of this urgent question. I can only tell you: The coalition has already come to the world with this cone, perhaps one only needs to drive it a little further in. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why you won't come around. The Minister said that it was not the first military division he was carrying out. This is not supposed to be a threat, because the first division you did, Mr Minister, has just finished, but it has been implemented so correctly and it has not actually worked. We already feel that after this division the next one will come and then again the next and so on. And why will they come? – Because They will again and again be forced to adapt to the institutionalized lack of the situation. That is the problem we have. If you release releases to make a new army division, then again this is just an attempt without assessing the necessities without assessing the situation without publishing the threat image, adapting the organization to the existing possibilities. You said today that the procurement was very cheap, that we had bought the Okkasion Panzer. Sometimes one has the impression that we are supplied from a surplus and surplus store. A few days ago, I received this wonderful Miliz info magazine, and I thought that the soldier on the cover picture looked the way an Austrian soldier should look in foreign service, namely perfectly equipped. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] But that's actually not in harmony with reality, because only one sixth – one sixth! – the soldier will be so equipped. The actual equipment of the Austrian federal army looks like it has been shown today by parliamentarian Scheibner. Minister! On the picture is this full-vision helmet on it. They said if the stones fly, the soldiers should just bend. We keep the full-screen helmet on and for ourselves for the more important thing. [[Call for the call.]] – That was said in the Committee. Minister! So you presented the option report according to the motto "Nothing exactly you don't know". This option report must be a miracle. Everything looks like the rabbit looking at the snake on this option report that will come in March, and then suddenly all the problems will be solved, then it will be apparent which options there will be. But how will these options really look? You've actually decided. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Let yourself be surprised! You can't expect anything! These are the impatient men!]] I really can't wait, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! I'm very impatient. And do you know why I'm impatient? – Because the German army does not hold out the fact that one is waiting so long to have made final decisions without having given a definitive order for the defence of the state. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is the problem! You may understand a lot about the economy, but from the state defense, you'll be better off! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] What option does the coalition partner have? You've actually decided. The room for the coalition partner is not very large. And what's the point? - On further delays. And there are other problems with this because there will be another loss of dust outside due to the aging of weapons and equipment. That's the problem! There is no broken order, there are no definite procurement plans, the substance – the device, the weapons – is getting older. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] That's where the rabbit is in the pepper! It's in the federal government. It wants it in the militia. The letter from the ÖVP member – how was his name? [[Call out to the liberals.]] – Creator has already been read. But it also wants to be in the active force. And if the pilots are already moving publicly with the AUA-actress, with the AUA-print in the flyhorst, because they are only waiting for a jump and a corresponding engagement with the AUA or the Lauda Air, then this is a symptom for us, which we really can't overlook and discuss away. I can still deal with the situation in Styria, which Mr Maitz has partially kept silent. In Styria, the ÖVP once had the saying. In the meantime it is true that the Styria is quite strongly taken up by the other party, that there is very strong the former political second power that has the saying. The Styrian MEPs Schützenhofer, Majcen, List, Löcker, Chernko, Prüsch – in my opinion mainly ÖVP members – have made a request concerning the Styrian barracks, which are important for the subjective sense of security of the population – the Slovenia crisis is still in memory of our friends in the Styria. But you say something exactly in answer to a question, as I said, you do not know. And that makes us very worried, Minister! To conclude: I have here the requirement "From order to order", so how to give a militaryly structured order. First, an order is awarded, and it is supported by the appropriate planning. The situation is then assessed: Enemy – own terrain. Then a decision will be taken. An appropriate plan will then be developed and given the command to implement it. – Minister! If you comply with these structures, these schemes, it will continue in Austrian security policy. But if one constantly forgets any steps, fails to take steps, one does not make a successful security policy in the sense of our people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11449	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. Voluntary speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11471	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have studied this urgent question very carefully. I agree on a wide range of aspects of security analysis. And I am also saying in full what Mr Scheibner has done about party policy. Security policy is really not suitable for party-political considerations, for party tactics and the like. It is far too serious and too important for this. So we'll meet again. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, I see serious differences in the conclusions to be drawn from them. That is why I would also like to point out, with all clarity, that no serious security policy analysis results in just some kind of existential military threat to the future of Austria. We know that the importance of classical national defence is lost in importance. The main task of the German army remains, of course, the military defence of the Austrian territory, but the new tasks are in the international field, in international solidarity, in peacekeeping, in disaster aid and in humanitarian activities. The Austrian security policy must therefore be adapted to these new requirements. And to do this, Mr Federal Minister – I have repeatedly stressed this – needs to make significant structural changes in the German army. As you have already spoken to the military commanders today, I would like to say: I believe that a single military command is enough to lead the Austrian federal army. That would not be an Austrian special road, but that would also be in line with the international standard. In my opinion, an adaptation of the existing military division is going in the wrong direction. Measures in this context are far away from a fundamental overall reform of the federal army, as shifts in the organisational field alone do not solve the structural problems of the federal army. [[Demonstratative condolences with the liberals.]] These shifts no longer provide room for the so urgently needed modernisation measures, which are necessary in many areas, Minister of State. That's why I'd say: A restructuring of the army organization and a streamlining of the leadership structure are necessary. That is what we want to tackle together, and I hope that the opposition will also take place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The first important step is, of course, a significant reduction in management and administration. I miss your adaptation of military division. We have to move from the current share of 62 percent of staff costs towards the 50 percent mark. It is therefore necessary, as has been said, for structural measures to be taken in depth. We must simply ensure that the overall budget is spent not only on personnel costs, but also, of course, the funds needed for the necessary procurement operations in the area of equipment, the modernisation of accommodation and much more. It is therefore necessary to seek a military structure which entails a reduction in personnel costs. Federal Minister! Hand in hand with the reduction of the army size, of course, there must also be a reduction in the locations in the German army. I know that this is a very difficult political undertaking, but I believe that if we prepare this jointly, we will find the right way too. I believe, Mr Federal Minister, that this reduction in the size of the army and structural changes make it possible to ensure that there is a willingness to work both for national tasks and for tasks in the context of international solidarity. This is a common concern, and we will endeavour to go this way together. We are willing to take part in improving the credibility and efficiency of the federal army. There you have in us a really serious partner!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11537	Mr Spindelegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11558	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to focus briefly on three questions. To the "Truthiness" of the request a really amusing detail if I read page 4 of your statement: They claim that we have a very unclear line on the question of future security policy, and explain this as follows: "But especially the ÖVP heads of state in the west of Austria are not to be brought to the party line..." [[Abg. Young: This is the unclear line!]] And to do this, you can also quote: NATO is "a concept based on enemy images". Quote Landeshuptmann Weingartner, 19. ==References== [[Call the ÖVP: When was that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Great! You have to go back 30 years so that you can find a quote from a politician who had not yet been a national leader as a reason for this claim. – To the extent that this request is "necessary". [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] But I'm a little more up-to-date. I now have a quote from 4. In December 1997, Mr Haider said: It is not possible to take one step at a time with the ultimate consequence that Austria and its federal army are increasingly being placed under the sovereignty and control of NATO. [[Abg. Scheibner: Without membership! Unfortunately, Mr President, you do not understand this.]] – Very interesting, ladies and gentlemen! A turn of 180 degrees! But we must take note: The year tends to end, and the yes of the FPÖ to NATO seems to be coming to an end. [[Abg. Scheibner: Read our party program!]] It is clear from many examples that this is actually the case, ladies and gentlemen. But I find it highly interesting that the Freedom Party is now beginning to relativize its course in questions like NATO and thus open up an end to its NATO policy. It is obviously impossible to maintain a position in the FPÖ longer than a year. I'm just holding this down, because that's really the unclear line you represent – and not us. [[Abg. Scheibner: Seven years this is our policy! Since 1990!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me briefly deal with a second point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: As "state enemies" you have insulted us!]] This concerns the alleged non-documentation of documents. The Federal Minister has given his opinion on this today. I can only remind you once again that the framework document for participation in the "PfP" has been published. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Spindelegger! What do you say to the accusation of "enemy"!]] Primosch/Siess-Scherz, KSE-BVG, ladies and gentlemen! The introduction document was signed and published in exactly this publication. The individual partnership programme – apparently a very sensitive document – was made available to all clubs in March 1996 – apparently lost in the FPÖ, possibly also in the SPÖ. But I think the documentation should bring it back to you. I am therefore asking myself – and I am going to repeat to colleagues Schieder – what it is supposed to be, once again, to present all the documents, although, as one admits, it is not a political state agreement within the meaning of Article 50 B-VG. I do not think so because, ladies and gentlemen, either the approval of the National Council or the approval of the National Council is not necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is everything published!]] There is no need for approval in this case. And that's why you can read this if you're interested. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I quoted the publication to you. You can also borrow them from me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] I should like to come to a third and last point, which I also think is very interesting: It is about adapting the military division. We have heard the proposals made by Mr Gaál, who wants to have a corps command, nine military commanders and 60 000 man troops. This was presented at a press conference. [[Abg. Gaál: I didn't say nine military commanders!]] We've heard the FPÖ that wants three corps commanders and the resolution of all military commanders. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did you hear that?]] We heard the liberals. Mr Moser wants us to go to the Western European Union, although it still has no meaning. [[Abg. Gaál: You heard that in the fairy tale hour!]] A year ago, Mr Moser, the discussion in the Liberal Forum unfortunately remained. I would therefore recommend that we get up-to-date. [[Abg. Scheibner: You should prepare yourself better so that you don't fry such nonsense!]] And we have heard the Greens who prefer to have a corps of 1,000 peace-doves. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the palette of a new army division. I would say that we should be confident that those who need to have the overview of this competence and ultimately have the responsibility to present a plan for adapting military division. I think that's the right procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] If I take the time now, I believe that this will also be the way in which these decisions are taken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So I'm allowed to sum up: The question was not urgent. Its content was replaced by the morning debate, and I actually do not see why we should talk more about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11788	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11816	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! [[Further calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Of course, the demand for the Freedom Party is justified, because what is going on in a ministry when the Minister answers questions about the constitutional basis for foreign soldiers to stop in Austria with a counter-question – in the best tradition of the ODP defence ministers! I remember when Mr Lichal meant that in Austria everything was allowed, which is not prohibited. [[Abg. Böhacker: expressly forbidden!]] But this is not the administrative principle in Austria. As much as I know, we act on the basis of laws. And this question is more than right. Minister! The mistrust against you is not an invention of the Greens, but it is a hand-proof APA release to the NATO debate. Mr. Kostelka is "deraged" about you. After all, he's your coalition partner if I'm not completely deceived. He's the "red brother" of Mr. Khol. Why must he be "mpoverished"? He's even thinking about a withdrawal claim. What's going on? Ladies and gentlemen! Isn't your friend Kostelka all the way? Does he not know what he has to say about your advances that you do not know what laws are necessary or not necessary when foreign troops practice in Austria? I understand you have a whole new understanding for the federal army. It's like a business business for you. There is a location security which is now under debate. For the location of Austria, the barracks must be secured, the armaments must be secured, and of course your position must also be secured. This is a completely new discussion, and I think it is the right of the Freedom Party, which has a clear line to membership of NATO, to ask here, too, which line the government party has, in particular, the Minister of Defence. Ladies and gentlemen! The questions were so precisely asked that I had the suspicion that they were formulated in the Ministry of Defence. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not yet, colleague!]] I already know this game. I suspect that the family name of this man who formulated it begins with R. But maybe that's a mistake. But the precision of these wordings would have deserved at least that you, Mr Minister of Defence, reply to it a little. If you were asked what this "sub-age" staff in your ministry means, I would have liked you not to give up such general military policy statements, but simply to spell the name. It can't be that hard. I can imagine that the name is certainly simply to include it in the full scope, and would probably not exceed the opinion of all Members. I would therefore ask you to answer this question. Or don't you know what this "sub-age official" who misunderstands your instructions means? – Either now You're so in your ministry, or this "subaltern official" has a hearing mistake. Perhaps you should check whether the equipment is not lacking in tanks and helmets and other devices, but maybe the man has only one hearing error. You might want to help him. At the cost of NATO accession. Mr Federal Minister, I do not understand why you are always so pressing and decorating on this question. They're always talking around the bridge: Austria spends very little compared to the other NATO Member States, not even the average we reach. Why don't you say this quite openly and honestly, as at least the FPÖ does. It says at least if we want to reach the average, then we have to put around 20 billion schilling on it every year. Why Saying You don't? Can't you say that? Would that perhaps concern the Austrians at a time when savings packages are being made in which the students lose their free rides, in which single teachers have to take cuts, in which family allowances are reduced? Maybe that would irritate people. You don't want that, and now for Christmas it's probably very low. You don't do that, please. You don't want to talk to me like that. Arbitrators will certainly not irritate it, because he knows how you're wandering around these numbers. Scheibner does not particularly irritate this, he only wants a public declaration. They know very well if only the average – which has recently been reduced due to reasonable disarmament within NATO – is to be achieved, then this means a doubling of the Austrian military budget. Why don't you say that in public?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! The Freedom Party writes in its explanatory statement: The need for funding for the next ten years is between 100 and 140 billion schilling. To this end, the ministry says, that's incredible, that's probably another "subaltern", "small" time soldier, who is constantly pushing watch, sucked out of his finger and played it to Scheibner about the army newsman young. These numbers are then mentioned here in this House, and you are completely over-exposed. You don't know what to do with this incredibly high number. You can probably count only up to 20 million, because that's exactly the sum you cite as a member contribution. Mr Van der Bellen has already said today that this is probably for the coffee cash you need in NATO. Why don't you take a position on this number? Is she completely blinded? Is this a pre-Christmas joke to disturb the people of Austria in order to disturb Mr Maitz, who thinks that NATO accession is the cheapest option? There we are together, rich, safe and comfortable. Then we can talk to the Americans and Russians about the world situation. Is this the consideration of Mr Maitz? I'd be interested in what numbers are these? – Are the horror or horror tales of the opposition, as Mr Maitz always claims? Are these pure inventions, or are the concrete, massive and clear assumptions from the ranks that are still male despite your zealous feminism that you show. – Ladies and gentlemen! Why can't the Federal Minister give a clear answer? I have little sympathy for this urgent request, but for the intention that you should finally speak plain text, I have full understanding. Ladies and gentlemen! It can't be that you're sitting here continuously behind this wonderful microphone, brown-burned like a Sunnyboy and telling the Austrian Republic, it's all very difficult to estimate, the question is very interesting, but you should take it out of the day-to-day political dispute. Let us take this up for the debate on the 0.5- and 0.8-promille, so that we can make party-tactic games, but not on the question of defence, ladies and gentlemen. This is a question that concerns all of us, since we have to speak plain text, we have to be serious. Federal Minister! Do you know what you offered here? – That’s an insult to this house, that’s a provocation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have given zero answers to a number of questions. Federal Minister! Again: I have little understanding of the content of these essentials, but I have every understanding of the democratic desire of the liberals. I know, Mr Federal Minister, that it would be nice for a minister like you to sit on a richly covered table and join the Americans. It would be nice to sit at a table with Billy and Boris and talk about world politics. And it would be sad if the Santa came and the Christmas candles burned to stand outside in the cold. I know you're pushing it, but forget it. You don't: This Parliament is still representative of the Sovereign, and this Parliament is not to be overlooked.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11887	Mr Dr. Ofner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e11908	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to deal with the comments made by my previous speaker, but not with those of Mr Wabl, but first of all with those of my neighbor, Mr Spindelegger. I can explain it to him again: We liberals are the only ones in the domestic spectrum of Austria, who have even clearly established in their new programme that no serious path passes through NATO entry! No serious way! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: More Religious!]] But we believe – and this is one of the main items of today's question – that we should not be explained outside, that we cannot, that we do not, and all this does not take place, but this is already done without a legal basis through the back door. We are in favour, but it must all have its order. It must go through this House and be safeguarded accordingly by law and political means. That's what we want to say! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A word to my previous speaker Gaál: You have taken the position, you see far and wide no existential threat to Austria. You are right to thank God, but such scenarios can change very quickly. You just need to listen to the news about what is happening in the vicinity of Austria. And if I imagine what can come to us quickly and not easily from the Balkans, from the Middle East, from the former Soviet Union and all that belongs to it, then I think that one day we might wish to be prepared. We must be careful now that we are prepared accordingly to be able to meet it so that we do not have to start preparing ourselves for these things when it is too late. I wish you, me and all of us, that you are right, but I fear that, as a responsible defence politician, you must also deal with preparing yourself for things that are possible, if they do not really seem likely at the moment. And right in this phase, we're on our way. I don't really see myself there as opposed to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To Peter Schieder Peter! It is a mistake if you believe that we have seen ourselves on the grounds of competition with the Greens for this action today. It's different. [[Abg. Arbitrators: must have hurt if a third party is already talking about it!]] It's wrong, and you shouldn't let false things stand in the room. You've been a failed politician for decades! You know exactly what it's all about! It's the worry that got us out of here. It is first of all the concern for the international reputation of Austria, and you know it as a learned foreign politician. More and more, the impression in our closer and wider surroundings is that we want to be perfect riders. We're not quite able to do it yet. We have the idea that we're just going through there. In a short or long time we have NATO in the West, except Switzerland, which plays a smaller role, we have NATO in the north, NATO in the south and NATO in the east. Then what else is going to happen to us? We are then in the middle of an environment of noisy NATO states, where we can inherit the perfect security completely free of charge. But you know how I know that this is not honorable. We are ridiculous, and we are on the border with this sector to be underestimated. And it will also have a political effect, because a state of which one has the impression that in the international community, especially in the European environment, who wants to pick out raisins, he wants to take advantage of them, but does not want to contribute anything, no risk, no effort, no internal-political Zores, and above all does not want to invest money, will not be taken seriously in the long run. And it will be difficult to put up with this attitude, dear Peter! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is a concern to continue to observe in this context. [[Abg. Wabl: One question!]] – A very short one, because I have little time. [[Abg. Wabl: Why are you not so committed to solidarity in development cooperation?]] – I do! Ask Gusenbauer! There he sits. [[Abg. Wabl: Really?]] Of course! I have in him a prominent witness who knows. I have also shown a voting behaviour that comes from my environment... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Because you don't watch, Mr. Wabl! You can not only listen to yourself, you must also listen when the others talk! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The self-representation of this pult is no shame to a politician, but it is not all, one must also listen to what others say, because then one will not come to such misevaluations. But now on the issue of the situation in the army. We all observe with real concern that the army continues to descend. We have experienced the new army reform, we are now experiencing the new reform, and it is heard that the new and new army reform is already at hand. It may be called otherwise, but it will be the result. One closes units, which already have no substance, with other units that still appear semi-filled. It is feared that the material will slowly go the way of scrapping, that soon we will not have any planes and no more suitable vehicles. We buy "new" tanks that are really as old as the tanks we scraped, only they are a third less number. We assume that we will acquire a high number, a three-digit high number of PANDUR wheel tanks of Austrian provenance, and then we will hold with a few dozen. We don't have the teams to really fulfil the tasks that this army has. Young people want to be drawn to the pioneers, they want to be able to work there, but it will mean to them, we don't have people and we don't have any material to do that either. And now we're on a different subject. I represent the position covered by the Constitution and the Law that the army is there primarily for defence purposes, but there are other tasks, such as disaster protection. But behind it all are aware that the use of disasters can no longer be seriously exercised. There are no trained people – even you mentioned this – and above all no material. The heavy machines from the pioneer field, the heavy vehicles have long been in Bosnia, they are not replaced, but they are simply silenced. The bridge construction devices have been installed somewhere in the last or last flood. If you want to build a bridge again, unfortunately no one will be there. You'd have to see if you could get one out somewhere. When people are brought into the international field, it turns out that the environment is also funny about their husband’s equipment and is simply not ready to accept it. There's a need for new helmets over the head. There is a need to buy necks over head-to-head suitable scatter protection vests. The vehicles have to be "hardened" as it is so beautiful. Having these things in mind, one is worried about the army and security, but above all about the soldiers. In the case of soldiers, there are not only professional soldiers who have to buy it, because they take it voluntarily, there are also groundmen in it, some 10,000 a year, about 29 000 currently. That's too few anyway. We must be particularly concerned about these – not because a human life is worth more than the other, but because, because of the laws adopted by us in this House, we have made it necessary for many to intervene against their will and to put themselves at risk. That's our concern!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12043	Next word: Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12085	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a preamble to security policy the clarification of the Causa Ofner and his commitment to development policy: Mr Wabl! I would ask you not to underestimate those Members of the FPÖ who are in favour of a developmental commitment, like Mr Ofner. Unfortunately, there are not many. That is why we are very glad that we have it in this context. Secondly, on the security debate: I would like to address Mr Ofner, who has taken care of the international reputation of Austria. I understand that it is very important to talk to whom you are talking in the world. But even the other neutral or non-packed states of Europe, Ireland, Sweden, Finland, Switzerland, do not see themselves in the present situation... – Yes, but they do not see themselves as a matter of becoming a member of NATO in the current situation. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Look at the defense efforts they're making!]] They have no reason at all to be looked at in a way that is somehow wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: They do something themselves! We don't do one and the other we don't!]] Then we talk to friends in the U.S. and say: We hear that there is always an interest in Austria becoming a member and so on and so on! – Even those who are very concerned that NATO is expanding say: We don't have any pressure at all. Austria is supposed to decide. The contribution of Austria has so far been a valuable one, and the contribution of Austria will also be more valuable in the future. I do not think it is good or useful to try to stage a debate from the outside and to put pressure on the internal policy debate, because it is based on the actual decision that the Austrian people, the Austrian Parliament and the Austrian Federal Government will continue to determine with whom, under what conditions, with what instruments and with what proportion of our gross domestic product Austria will ensure and guarantee its security. This is primarily an Austrian decision. In this debate, we are not helped by the fact that some people are looking at us in a bad way. What would be helpful, however, is not to narrow down the security debate and say that it is now only about when we are finally entering NATO, because that is really the only thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I think the debate should be opened, and we have this debate open and say quite openly – Mr Scheibner, I have only five minutes of time, so be patient and let me say: [[Abg. Scheibner: You left NATO in the early morning!]] Since the Madrid decisions, there has been a development of NATO, which I do not think is so positive in a number of areas. The North Atlantic Partnership Council is positive. The expanded possibilities of the "Partnership for Peace" are positive. But I would like to mention scepticism among those who want a European security system that the European component in Madrid has not come to a very strong breakthrough. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Europeans are to blame!]] The Austrians alone will not bring the weight of the Americans in the other direction. You won't believe it yourself, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Europeans are to blame!]] It has become apparent that Europe is essentially playing the second violin there, and if that is the case, NATO cannot be sold as a European security system. Fourth point – you also have to look at this question: Does it make sense to live in a tension relationship with Russia for the next ten years with the continued enlargement of NATO? Does it make sense for every single country of Eastern Europe to have a debate on whether its admission is perceived as a threat to Russian security, yes or no? . I ask whether this makes sense for a stable development in Europe. If you look at just these four points, I don't think you can simply make yourself here and everything that happens in NATO – one of them has gone up to that today and said that it is louder enough democracy, but I could have done my limitations in terms of Turkey too – always as a glorious and the only way to defend it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] – This debate seems to me to be extremely indifferent. Mr Stadler! A speaker from your group has said that Austria is accused of constantly selecting only the raisins. I'd say, Remember the argument you put forward at EU accession when you constantly said: Austria pays too much, Austria makes too big contributions!, and in reality you have represented the Rosinspicker strategy. But now you're saying Austria is a "trigger". . I think that a debate is not serious. However, I do not think that it makes sense – I say this in all my friendship with Mr Spindelegger – to give equal consideration to anyone who represents another proposal, as our friend Toni Gaál has made, that it is a matter of competence. I do not think that this is a civilised form of debate, always to establish competence where one can find its own position. In addition, I also say: Even if there is no legal basis for the Minister of Defence to present the Treaties to Parliament, I should like to point out that there is a broad involvement of Parliament in a key issue, such as the future of Austrian security policy. It is also in line with the old tradition that Foreign Minister Mock has always used in the past to carry out a comprehensive involvement of Parliament on foreign and security policy issues, even if he was not required by law to do so. I would assume that it would be useful for the Minister of Defence to follow the example of the former Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12190	Mr Dr. König is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12212	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government and the Coalition Parties have agreed to draw up an option report by the end of March next year and then look for a common solution on the basis of this option report. I believe that this is a serious process. Of course, an option report must be open to all options: for NATO as well as for any other option. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Why?]] – Because you can only choose if you can actually evaluate all the options that are usefully available. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But that's not a "desir-what"!]] One can, of course, have preferences as a party, and the EIA-Federal Party Board has taken such a decision that the EIA considers that, due to the changed conditions, we would be well advised to take the opportunity to join NATO-New. Now that's a political opinion. It will only be a qualified opinion if one finds oneself in the government and in the coalition. Each other and every transition has the same right of discussion. Otherwise, we can't deal with the problem. Now the Freedom Party is pushing. That's the opposition, but: This reminds me of the time when the Freedom Party was always pressing with EU accession. We also believed that we are in favour of EU accession, that the coalition partner was not yet so far, and that is not an accusation. Each party has people who are concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Why didn't you make a recommendation for the referendum? – Each party has become...!]] – For what referendum? – Of course! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The referendum on EU accession! Your party did not make any recommendation at that time!]] The People's Party has clearly expressed its support for accession to the European Union. The need for a referendum on the Constitutional Law in view of the total revision of the Constitution was perfectly clear. So there's no doubt at all. I don't argue, even with us, there were people who had concerns and concerns. You in the SPÖ had more to do with it, and it took longer until the coalition partner was able to take the same path, and we then took the common path. Unfortunately, at that time we had to abandon you from the FPÖ. I would now like to speak to Mr Ofner and say that I do not want to say that this is what it is now. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Take us by word! Take us by the word!]] - Yeah, that's a good idea. After me, Mr Stadler comes to the speaker's desk. If this speech is still to have a special profit towards the end of the sitting today, I would ask him that he be here quite officially, not just as a weighty Member, as Dr. Ofner is, but on behalf of the Group, that the willingness to join NATO, even then, to contribute to the necessary constitutional provisions,... – No, not the programme. [[Abg. Young: Have you not read our request in the Federal Council?- Oh, my God!]] You have to explain here that this is an unchangeable attitude and that it will not be changed at once if, as Mr Jung said, it costs much more than the Minister for Defence has said. Then you can't say that's too expensive for us now, or we're too little prepared. [[Abg. Mr Vanner: Let us make a motion for a resolution for the end of the sitting.]] No, because of our joint agreement, we are obliged to have the option report prepared, discussed in a serious way and then to find a common solution. But this cannot stop you from staying in your position and confirming it here. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't stop us anyway!]] If you do this, you will scatter all the doubts that it would once again be different. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The zigzag brothers don't know that!]] I would also like to agree with Mr Scheibner in one of them. He said something in the context of his speech today, which I can very well sign. I don't think anyone should want it – he said you certainly don't want it! No, we do not want to do so – to make such an essential question for our country an election struggle. That is why it has not been possible to push in the coalition in a way that would actually result in an election struggle instead of a serious struggle for the best solution to the security of our country. This must be the supreme command for the opposition and for the government in the same way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Let me say another word about security construction in Europe. I don't quite understand why the Liberals think NATO shouldn't be, but it's WEU. – It is clear that the WEU, in its assistance obligation, goes beyond NATO. It also covers out-of-area actions, so continue. If you remember the further, why don't you get the details? – This has to do with it, only the WEU is not able to... [[Abg. Young: This is not a commitment to assist! That has nothing to do with it!]] [[Abg. Boy: You don't know each other! That has nothing to do with Article 5! Nothing!]] This is the content of the military pact. Only it is not able to carry out this, and therefore there are the Berlin decisions in which transfer of tasks to Europeans is possible without American participation, but only with NATO's consent and NATO's availability. We're geared today. It is an advantage that this contrast between the Atlantic and Europeans has also been resolved, so that today it is said: Yes, we need the Atlantean Community, but we should and will be called upon to act independently as Europeans on certain issues, and we will be able to draw on the common possibilities available. I believe that this is already a very clear record of the new security architecture in Europe. If you go here – I would assume from you if Mr Stadler officially confirmed this later – I am pleased and I would invite the others to think about it too. But I would like to say that we will also note that there are more people in you and in you than in us, who can very difficult say goodbye from the long period of neutrality and who must therefore be convinced that, in another time, under other circumstances, no longer have to ask themselves against whom we should still be neutral within our partner countries in Europe. It takes time to win over the older generation in particular. Let us make this question a common issue. Let us turn this question into a question of the common security and future of our country, and then we will respect this attitude in the population too!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12405	Next word: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Stadler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12426	Mr President. High house! Mr King, do not worry about the position of the liberals in the NATO question. I would be concerned at your place – and this would make you more than enough busy – about how your own group is constantly acting in the NATO question. They have now rejected or shoved the third request. You have referred to the Subcommittee the last request you could have made with us to join NATO, because you cannot agree with the Socialists. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You fell down! Don't shake your head, and a helpless gesture doesn't help you either. You should not worry about what we liberals do not have to do, because we are staying with NATO, but you should worry about how your own party is suffocating and your own Minister of Defense is constantly trying to be a bit of NATO, to be a little pregnant and not to be pregnant. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the problem. All that you have said, write to your Minister of Defense, to your own clubman and to your own Foreign Minister, but not to us liberals! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I have a different concern. Mr Minister, if you believe that you can resolve the hunter regime 9 in Vorarlberg and then keep the land that the country of Vorarlberg has given you – I would like to know what Mr Feurstein or Mr Kopf has to say about it – if you believe that you can keep this 93 000 square meters of land, the best Walgau soil, then you will be very mistaken, Mr Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I've got the gift contract here. I do not know whether you know this contract, which should be in your place, but he must also be with your party colleague, Minister for Economic Affairs Farnleitner. This contract clearly says that you have taken over the obligation for the Federation to establish a barracks there. This has been built with an effort of 650 million schilling, a state-of-the-art barracks. And you want to plunder and empty her now, ladies and gentlemen! Do you want to return to Bosnian refugees? – In the other barracks, which has been renovated with an effort of twenty million, we have Bosnian refugees, which we no longer get rid of. Now, despite his commitment to training Vorarlberg's primary military servants, the Federal Minister wants to subtract the hunter regiment on a given basis and then probably leave the barracks empty.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12473	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12488	So you can't handle taxpayers, and so you can't deal with Vorarlbergers! Remember that, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12518	Next word: Mr Ing. Tychtl. 3 minutes remaining speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12540	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the presentation of the Heeresreform, the top news on the radio was: "New federal government is supposed to make army NATO fit." The objective of redesigning the German army, making it more compact and streamlined, is in principle to be positive, to which we stand. However, in the case of a comprehensive restructuring of the German army, it will be important to take into account that national defence will in future be able to carry out, in the course of international operations, in particular, those tasks which serve peacekeeping and which do not involve fighting, at least for the time being. For many years, we have been participating in international operations both in EU observation missions and in the NATO mission SFOR with troop quotas and individuals. It is becoming increasingly apparent that, in terms of the equipment of the Austrian soldiers, soldiers from NATO countries are often unable to keep up with them. I think there is a field of activity in which we must intervene quickly when it comes to NATO suitability. I also think that we should try to catch up with this need very quickly, because it cannot be seen that our soldiers do not have the same protection as those from NATO countries. There's something else to add: It should be noted that in recent times – I heard this – fewer and less of our soldiers and officers are willing to go into such a mission, especially when it comes to leadership functions. First of all, you ask yourself: How's it going at home? Can I get back into my position when I get back? Second question: What does it look like on the spot? What are the conditions? I believe that this should also be the case in the case of a new army division. I would like to stress what has already been said today: It is not a question of our troops, which are engaged in peacekeeping activities abroad, being partly equipped with only flawed vests and modern helmets, and having equipment that protects them in short supply. [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] I think we should do the best we can for our soldiers. It is not to be seen that military vehicles have to be hardened so to speak, and we have no PANDUR for them. We are committed to first putting in order in our own home and putting the best in place for our soldiers. It remains to be hoped that, at the end of the reform, a national defence system will exist, which will not only be able to carry out its tasks optimally, but will also be accepted and supported by the Austrians. That is why I and my group are doing so, and we shall vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12597	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We now come to a vote, and I therefore ask the honourable Members to take the places. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament and partners on the submission of agreements with NATO and WEU to the National Council. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12641	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 4 to 11 of the agenda. Mrs Silhavy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12666	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For reasons of time, I am saving myself to address the Polish remarks made by Mr Kier on the subject of own-initiative proposals. In any event, Mr Kier, the fact is that the proposal we are discussing, namely the amendment of the unemployment insurance law, the Charity Money Act and the ASVG, is the substance of the resolution of this House of 10 June 1990. This is a matter for the European Parliament and the Council. Finally, Mr Kier, you yourself highlighted the positive aspects of the proposed amendments and also signalled the approval of your group. Unfortunately, Mr Oellinger's attitude goes a little beyond opposition tactics. Mr Oellinger! In the Committee's deliberations, we have already discussed what the rules of visibility look like. You know very well that, for example, when it comes to mediation, it is a question of the qualification of the person seeking work, but also of the possibility of income to be achieved. You also know very well that the proposal you have formulated would prevent people who have already had temporary jobs from being taught in the future. I can't imagine you actually mean and intend to do that. I can't imagine that's really your will. That is also the reason why we will not be able to give your request and give it your consent. I would like to point out one aspect, which is why I personally feel that the two-year term is very important. We want this new regulation of temporary employment and benefits from unemployment insurance or the pension scheme to help those people who receive a low income from these benefits, that they have the opportunity to increase their income in stages, without losing all the benefits. But in these two years – and I am glad that Mrs Bundesminister is here, and I am also glad that she has already promised that the ministry will follow this closely – the labour market must be closely monitored. Mrs. Federal Minister! We will have to look very carefully at whether an undesirable effect is associated with the new regulation, namely that entrepreneurs increase people's employment, so to speak, only temporarily instead of other forms of employment. I mean, that's a very important point. We all know that new regulations, of course, also pose dangers. I've just tried to show one of these dangers. People are at the heart of the policy of social democrats, and that is why we have also opted for this new regulation. I therefore call on the Green Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to approve this new regulation. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12709	Mr Dolinschek, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12730	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1996 Structural Adjustment Act established that, in the case of income above the level of the low-capacity limit, unemployment benefit, emergency aid and leave allowance are not only paid on the days of employment subject to insurance, but on the whole of the calendar month. This accident, as it was at the time, leads to problems and hardships in all areas of emergency work. This regulation should now be loosened temporarily, because it has not only led to hardships and problems: The Liberal Party has already pointed out at that time that it is simply not an advantage for unemployment insurance. This has now been confirmed and has also prompted colleagues Guggenberger to quote Adenauer: No one can prevent us from becoming smarter. Ladies and gentlemen! This change is to be welcomed, because it is basically going in the right direction, namely, to the partial billing of secondary incomes required by us for years instead of the withdrawal of unemployment benefit, emergency aid or leave allowance, in order to motivate the unemployed by resulting higher incomes and thus keep them in employment. A certain incentive has now been created for the low-income unemployed, with incomes from 3,000 to 4000 s per month, to accept temporary temporary employment and to earn something for it. The adoption of temporary employment also extends the period of unemployment benefit. Insurance days shall not be considered as unemployed days, and no ceiling shall be provided for the additional income in the field of insurance. From my point of view, that is the positive part of this amendment. However, the ceiling provided for in the net income plus unemployment benefit or emergency aid should be seen as negative. In fact, from a total income of 8 600 s, it does not make sense for any further secondary activity, because there are reasonable reductions in the amount of benefits in this area, because parts of the income are above the limit of low-capacity from 1. In 1998, 90 percent of the unemployment benefit and emergency aid are charged from 3 830 S. Mrs. Dr. Moser has shown us a calculation, and you have seen that this is not so easy. When I look at it like this: Work load plus travel costs or other things, I wonder if 10 percent in this area is a motivation to accept an intermediate earnings at all. I doubt that it would be useful to promote the adoption of such short-term and often low-qualified jobs only in the lower incomes and performance sectors. I do not think that it is useful for the persons involved in a higher unemployment benefit, for example of 8 600 s, to lose such an activity through a total account of the benefit. In fact, if someone goes to work with an unemployment benefit exceeding 8 600 s, he has no financial contribution at all. In principle, this is nothing but a brush again, and the person concerned is also pushed into the brush if he wants to earn anything for it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not understand why employment on more than 16 days per month is not permitted and should lead to a loss of benefits, even if earnings are below the limit. For example, if someone distributes a flight ticket an hour a day, I find it unfair if he can do it only 16 days a month. It would certainly be more useful to regulate this differently. But it's all a step in the right direction. It is not the yellow of the egg, but, as Mr Guggenberger has already said: No one can prevent us from being failed. - We've already failed. Hopefully it will be the coalition too!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12793	Mr Donabauer has also been mentioned. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. 18.0 1
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12813	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Unemployment is certainly a fate that many people have to struggle with. That is why we should also be more careful to discuss the mechanisms for unemployment insurance. We know that we have good conditions in this regard, good safeguards. However, we also know that we have some failures in this area, where we need to be re-adjusted, and we also know that we have just put in place some measures through the Structural Adjustment Act last year, where we have already meant that we will then make changes if we know the effects. In this context, this claim 645/A is also to be seen, which provides that, in the case of unemployment benefit, it is now possible to act in the intervening period without the total retirement of benefits. The same applies to leave allowance. I personally believe that this innovation, this amendment, is useful because it allows some to enter the profession in the short term. But above all, I see the chance of them working on a professional basis. In any case, I think this is a positive measure. In this context, however, I would like to address, Mrs Federal Minister, the area of agriculture and the single value limit. One of the last novels – I think it was in 1996 – was normized that the possession is crucial for the continuation of performance or its rest. In the past, the term "management" was in the law, and it had a much better function, although I declared quite openly: I am in favour of regulatory provisions, but they must be practical, applicable and socially fair and balanced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why, together with my friends, I will have to make myself felt again in this matter. In the Government template 903 of the supplements: Agreements with Hungary are planned to allow Hungarian citizens to work with us in the framework of a bilateral agreement for language education and training. I think this is a useful measure because it is in addition to the Foreign Employment Act. I see the border agreement in a different way. Of course, we need to have a case-by-case labour force because work is taking place at a time when we do not have enough power in our own country, whether because they are partly not willing or able to accept hard work, which is very often extended over the weekend. This border agreement is nothing new. It is only essential that we find a mechanism which can also be applied since the entry into force of the Federal High-Level Overlay Regulation – a very terrible word, but a necessary measure. We ask that you not only consider this scheme to be an agricultural element, because we already have to know: If we do not have these additional workers – although I am in favour of exploiting the resources of our own country at first – we must give up valuable production fields. We are losing value added in the country, not only in the primary level, but also in the downstream areas of finishing. And that can't be in our sense. That is why I believe that we have a good presentation with the government template in 902 of the supplements, with this border agreement, and I hope that we will also apply them in the interests of our entire economy and, above all, of the people affected by them.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12865	Next word: Mrs Dr Petrovic. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12887	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was a statement by Mr Guggenberger that led me to this speech. In principle, I think it is very useful to abolish or relativize this rigid or social benefit and income from work. However, I also miss written guarantees in favour of workers that they are not pushed into the shortest and very windy employment conditions. But the following has given me a lot of thought – and I'm really trying to think about what's actually happening here –: They also spoke of the interests of tourist areas from which you come, and they have said that there are numerous establishments that have been open until about March, which then make business holidays, perhaps lock up at Pentecost for a few days, and then, literally, you have needed their stamping workers again. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: This is a common workforce!]] Do you know what that means, Mr. Deputies? – There is a common workforce, which is usually stamped in some economic sectors, notably, and then brought back. And you also know, Mr Guggenberger, that this is not meant as an attack, but is linked to the request to think about it. They know that it is the case that in some sectors people never get a right to pay, nor can they use normal holiday claims, but that they are sent stamps on a regular basis, for example in the construction industry or in the tourism industry. Now the following thing has happened: The social democracy in the so-called "social schmarotzer" debate has also repeatedly said to the people involved in unemployment benefits: Yes, of course, we have to control very carefully, we have to try to have no or as little participative effects! – I ask You just: What is it like for economic operators? Is it really true that social democracy too, that more or less this whole House sees it as a matter of course, that some industries are saying: We minimize our wage and salary costs by sending people a good part of the year stamping? To the address of the ÖVP: What is this fairness in competition when a firm offering a full year's employment, which, of course, cannot offer wages and salaries as high as the top industries, is actually brought into an unfair competitive situation with means of taxation? – I really ask you to think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12922	Mr Seidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12944	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Let me comment on three topics: first, on the Government's draft agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on employment in border zones; secondly, on the agreement with the same contracting partners on the extension and expansion of professional and linguistic knowledge; Internships between the Republic of Austria and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on social security. The two first agreements are closely linked to Agenda 2000. Negotiations begin at the beginning of 1998. In the longer term, the economic impact of enlargement is particularly positive for Austria. Austria is committed to the enlargement of the East, but is for a slow and meaningful pre-accession to the EU standards. We will promote and support these countries, especially Hungary. The EU's new structural and cohesion policy, with the new horizontal Objective 3, is creating a criterion to assist States in adapting and modernising their training, vocational training and employment systems. In view of this and the good relations between Austria and Hungary, it is about facilitating the employment of cross-border workers in these areas. Since the economic and political opening up of Hungary, the importance of the employment of frontier workers has increased. I share the concerns of Mr Donabauer in part, but I believe that the proposal is good and that it will only be done bilaterally. I believe that this is an important prerequisite. In this sense, the exchange of trainees is becoming increasingly important, as with the accession of the EU, the host workers agreements have become obsolete. Back to the first: This agreement, which applies to frontier workers who take up employment in the districts referred to in the Government template, means equal pay and working conditions for Austria and Hungary as well as compliance with all social security legislation. The number of frontier workers – and I believe this is also important to say – is determined annually by a mixed Commission consisting of Austrians and Hungary, taking into account the respective labour market situation. There is the problem of the special case of foreign employment, since no residence is required in the federal territory. However, admission of frontier workers to the Austrian labour market continues to be subject to rules on foreigners' employment. These frontier workers are included in the Federal or State maximum. However, the absence of the labour market policy audit in individual cases is due to the fact that this authorisation does not justify further integration. Duration of the agreement: one year. Secondly, The duration of employment as an intern ranges from six to twelve months – an extension to 18 months – and is determined, taking into account the situation and development of the labour market in order to complete the professional and/or language skills of interns aged 18 to 35 years, for nationals of the country of residence in their own country. The number of trainees is set at 300 for the first year. It also applies to the application of all the labour and social legislation of the Contracting State in which the practitioner pursues employment. Thirdly, The agreement with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on social security is welcomed as the first two by the Socialist parliamentary group. We will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e12995	No one has been reported in the word, so the debate is closed. The rapporteur's final statement is not taking place. We are entering the voting procedure, and I therefore ask the honourable Members to take the places. After some sporting achievements have been achieved, we shall vote separately on each Committee report. [[Rejoicing]] First of all, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1003 of the supplements. Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request. There is also a request from the honourable Member, Mag. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: First of all, I will have to vote on the supplementary proposal and the parts concerned by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The members of the Oellinger and Comrades have submitted an additional request, which is set out in Article 1(10) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 refers. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. There is also a lack of a vote on the amendment to the point designation requested. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 Z 2 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. I shall now vote on Rule 1 Z8 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is again the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on Rule 1 Z 10 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. . This request was adopted unanimously. Furthermore, Rule 2 Z4, as amended by the Committee's report, is now included in the vote. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done with a light of votes. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The vote will be taken by majority vote. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading, too, for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1003 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. (E 97.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on the creation of a so-called eternal status in unemployment insurance. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1012 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading, too, for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 1004 report of the supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 1006 report of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 1005 report of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on social security in 859 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to grant this approval to give a corresponding sign. – This grant shall be carried out unanimously. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Government of the Republic of Hungary on employment in border zones in 902 of the Supplements to be approved. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the exchange of workers for the extension of vocational and linguistic knowledge in 903 of the Supplements If you want to give these, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. 12. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (860 of the Supplements): Framework Agreement on trade and cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, and Declarations and Annex and Protocol on signature (967 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (945 of the Supplements): Exchange of letters between the Republic of Austria and the United States of America on mutual assistance in certain matters (968 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13232	We now come to points 12 and 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. The first speech is by Mrs Gredler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13260	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we were able to see the APA: "The course of the South Korean national currency Won dropped by 10 percent compared to the dollar and also strongly affected the other Asian currencies." They have all read about the currency turbulence in Asia. Furthermore, this article reads: "The benefits of the financial crises in Asia were the international pension markets and the D-Mark." I would now like to refer to this agreement in so far as I think we should talk about Korea, namely, North and South Korea. There is a resolution by the European Parliament asking North Korea not to provoke South Korea through border crossings in no one's country. But South Korea and the USA are also asked to stop their provocative military exercises. There are problems with North Korea: We have the problem of nuclear waste, of which we do not know exactly how it is used, we have the problem of a terrible government in this country which has probably not changed much since Kim Il Sung died and his son is in power. I would just like to say something, ladies and gentlemen, here, even if you are not interested in it, especially because we are standing shortly before Christmas: We need to look at the infants and children who are starved there and who are therefore not getting any help from the European Union because the political regime in that country is unbearable. I ask you in this House to consider how these children can be fed. We cannot allow them to die just because they are growing up under a political regime that we do not feel pleasant. Let us consider what we could do in Austria! Perhaps we could offer direct help there, although I know that the regime does not make it easy to send direct aid there. But perhaps even in the summer, while our boarding school is breaking, we could bring these children to Austria – perhaps even with their mothers or fathers – to feed them here, to provide medical care – Mrs. Federal Minister for Social Affairs, that also falls into her place of residence – and then send them back to her country in a strengthened health condition. I think we should not look away, and that is why I have spoken. Perhaps, Mrs. State Secretary, you think of this. Perhaps we could not only focus on the European Union's funds for humanitarian operations in this country and on the starving children, but perhaps you could also consider the way in which we could provide direct support here from the Federal Government. The Liberal Forum and I personally are at your disposal to provide organizational assistance. But let's see, please, don't go! Christmas is at the door – and children are starved in North Korea!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13312	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are once again entering a voting procedure, and I therefore ask that the seats be taken. We shall proceed to the vote, which I shall take separately from each committee report. First of all, I would like to mention the request made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: The Framework Agreement on Trade and Cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, and the Declarations and Annex, as well as the signing protocol in 860 of the Supplements, shall be approved. If you want to agree, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This sign is done unanimously. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG that this contract, published in 11 official languages of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Community, must be made known by the fact that it is available in all authentic language versions for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the event of their consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Exchange of letters between the Republic of Austria and the United States of America on the arrangement of mutual assistance in certain matters in 945 of the Supplements. If you want to do this, I would ask for a sign of it. – This is lucidity. Accepted. 14. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (839 of the Supplements): ArtHG (1030 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13383	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speech is by Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13411	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We today have a good law to adopt, namely a change in the monitoring of trade in specimens of species of wildlife and plants. This is an amendment due to an EU regulation, and I am particularly pleased that we are implementing this regulation so quickly and so quickly in Austria, because it is only within the framework of the European Union with 1. ==References== This new law replaces an old federal law from 1996. I am also pleased that this law, and also across the EU, explicitly states that individual countries can also make stricter provisions and stricter measures to protect particularly endangered species or populations. We welcome this law, and I would like to thank the Minister for his quick introduction of this regulation by the European Union as a government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13446	The next speech is by Mrs Parfuss. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13467	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This law is another step towards more protection for animals and plants, in this case for species of wildlife and plants. It is welcome – Mrs Tichy-Schreder mentioned earlier – that we are following other EU countries with these stricter regulations. The law regulates the criminal provisions and controls at the external borders for trade – that is, I think, very important – and it also requires how animals born and bred in captivity must be handled. The basic importance is the control of trade, the transport of copies and their accommodation. At the customs offices, staff will be trained for this particular type of control. This is also very important because the control stations or customs offices are intended to ensure that live animals receive sufficient and specific accommodation and care, and the negative effects of transport are kept as low as possible. I think the awareness of the public about the Art Trade Act is very important, it is also provided for in the law, but I would like to know, Mr Federal Minister, how this is actually implemented. In principle, I believe that trade with exotic or free-living animals should be refused. There are more and more animals that are threatened with extinction and that threaten to disappear from our earth forever. Recent scientific findings show that the protection of these animals must be strengthened and closely controlled, for people – we know – are the greatest enemies of these creatures. It is embarrassing for our genus that we remove animals from their free living environment and thus make profits. Just before Christmas, I appeal to colleagues in this House: Please, don't give any fur or fur on your wish list! Don't forget, furs are dead animals. Living exotics are also absolutely inappropriate as pets. There are enough other Christmas gifts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13508	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. Voluntary time limit 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13529	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals are committed to the comprehensive protection of endangered species of wild animals and plants. This has been a special concern for us for years. We therefore welcome this bill and will also give it our approval. Ladies and gentlemen! The objective of this protection is to be achieved, on the one hand, through the regulation of international trade of endangered species and, on the other hand, by national regulations, in particular in enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen! As mentioned above, our national regulations are limited to a few areas of enforcement, in particular the criminal provisions, while the rules governing imports, exports and transit are laid down by the EU and are to be applied directly in this case. It will therefore be particularly important to carry out these few national competences as effectively and conscientiously as possible, particularly in the labelling and control of endangered species. It must also be ensured that in the case of seizures in connection with criminal acts, animal and species-friendly accommodation of the seized animals and plants is ensured. It is precisely because of the lack of such accommodation facilities that a seizure is often abandoned. Furthermore, penalties – up to prison sentences – should contribute to the protection of endangered species in serious cases and, on the other hand, also protect Austria from becoming a trading and handling place for endangered species. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore a law which hopefully causes negative headlines, as they can be read in the press, such as "469 rare animals in flight luggage", "Fastly every day species protection agreements are violated" or "Zillfähnt 89 turtles" – everything happened recently – can be avoided in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We hope that this law will once and for all prevent this. We liberals will therefore be happy to give our approval to this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13574	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We come to the vote, especially since a final word by the rapporteur does not take place. I would therefore ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1030 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give this draft law an appropriate sign. – This is done with a light of votes. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign at third reading. – This, too, is done with a light of votes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 15. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (888 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Civil Service Act 1986 (ZDG-Novelle 1997) (986 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13627	We're now on the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Scheibner is the first speaker to speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13656	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again – and it happens almost regularly now – there is a civil service law -Novelle here in the National Council. They have said that this is a small adaptation, which has become necessary by the voluntary foreign service. It should now, if it has lasted for 14 months, be taken into account in civil service. And you want to introduce a general remuneration for civil service organisations. Federal Minister! I can still remember this: When the non-refundable foreign service was introduced – it was an international agreement – it was expressly excluded or at least criticised and did not think that the free foreign service in the country was recognised for civil service, because these two services had nothing to do with each other at all. What was then feared now occurs: Five years later, this is precisely what is normed: voluntary foreign service for the military service is charged. Federal Minister! That's our criticism point. There is an existing constitutional situation that can be discussed. You know very well that we could imagine putting military service and civil service on a voluntary basis. But we still have a current constitutional situation, we have a general military obligation, and we have regulated civil service as a military service. Reimbursement service also means that these services should be implemented in the context of comprehensive national defence. That is why we are in principle opposed to the provision of military service abroad. For the civil servant is to provide a service – and this also makes very many or the vast number – a positive service to society, to the community here in Austria, and does not get rid of this obligation by means of a service abroad. That is why we reject this part of the amendment in the current legal situation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second point: General remuneration for benefits of institutions. You're doing something that's basically positive. We are in favour, Mr Federal Minister, of the fact that there are no longer any exceptions and that in principle every organisation that employs civilians should make a remuneration to the Ministry of the Interior, where it is really not understandable – and there will be a request from the Greens – why there are so big differences in these remunerations. And it is impossible to understand why there have so far been institutions that have been excluded from this remuneration, especially because – and above all, the Red Cross is addressed – massive competition has also taken place with private entrepreneurs in this area by extending the opportunity to employ civilians. Of course, no one wants to criticise the task of the Red Cross in principle. It is a very important institution, and it is also intended to employ civilians there, particularly in the health and health sector. But by extending the possibilities of use, by increasing the number of civilian servants, the Red Cross has expanded its original activity, namely to organise real health transport and health care services, for example to the area of seat-and-sickness transport, which has so far been taken over by private taxi operators, even more cost-effectively. Of course, it is difficult to remain competitive when free employees are available to the Red Cross, while on the other hand private companies have to calculate accordingly. In principle, this general remuneration would be positive. But, Mr Federal Minister, you have set in the original planning a flat-rate amount, a minimum amount of 2 700 S. This is very low and in fact only a recognition amount. 2 700 S was at least the first requirement as far as I can remember. This has already been reduced in the Government template and in the Committee once again, i.e. to 1,200 pp.. And the whole is to enter into force only in a year, namely with 1. January 1999. As this measure has been watered down in such a way that it is useful and necessary in itself, it is therefore impossible to stop unfair conditions in the employment of civilian servants. That is why we will not be able to give our approval to this second part of the reform of the law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13713	Mr Dietachmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13735	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The content of this novel is the clarification of the provisions laid down in § 12 Civil Service Law, namely the recognition procedure and the definition of the term "adequate remuneration". My previous speaker is only right on one point, namely if he claims that the Civil Service Act is constantly being amended. I'll give it to him; yes, it's true. But he has forgotten to mention that every novel is an improvement for civil servants. Unclear or difficult paragraphs have been clarified, and this has led, ladies and gentlemen in general, to an enormous increase in the acceptance of civil service among the population. In this context, I refer to a study carried out last year by the IMAS Institute, according to which the attitude of the population to civil service is in principle very positive. 77 percent of the respondents said that civil service was a good thing, and 44 percent even said they had a very good opinion about it. Only 13 percent voted against this institution. But the evaluation by civil servants is also impressive. An overwhelming majority of 83 percent of civilian servants have the impression of being able to draw useful experience for their own lives from civil service activities; only 8 percent are different. In addition, it is also estimated at civil service that it opens up a great insight into social problems and that it is helpful to learn skills such as mastering difficult situations and doing first aid. But back to this novel, ladies and gentlemen. In view of the experience gained since 1992 in the free international service for civil servants, modifications and additions are necessary. In particular, it is necessary to clarify the recognition procedure and the proposed services and their control. We have already discussed in detail the civil service report on this matter. A much-discussed point is the appropriate remuneration by introducing a minimum amount. Originally, a compensation amount of 2 744 S was provided for in "blue light organizations", then it was already reduced to 1,732 S in the government template and reduced to 1,228 S by the present amendment. I know that 'blue light organizations' also have financial problems. But that's why – my previous speaker criticized this – we have gone through to see that this change only with 1. In January 1999, there was a certain changeover phase. In principle, I am specifically for a preferred assignment to the "blue light organizations", such as the Red Cross or the Workers Samaritan Federation. This is also in line with the principle of cost-truth. It should already be said here that rescue is basically a matter of national and municipal competence. The costs should therefore also be borne there. The countries have always called for the principle to be followed: Whoever causes costs, should pay them as well. In the example of Upper Austria, I can say that the national financial authority is very well-known to have sufficient resources on its side and to be able to make very good economies. However, he should also bear the costs of these tasks for which the country is responsible. Rescue, which is mostly divided between the country and the municipalities, does not necessarily have to be increased because, as we know, many communities cannot always compensate for their ordinary budget. This additional amount can therefore be carried out from the national budget. Finally, it should be stressed that many social, charitable and humanitarian institutions are certainly unable to fulfil their tasks without civil servants. The civil servants thus make an essential contribution, which ultimately benefits all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13786	Mrs Haidlmayr has also been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13807	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The amendments to the Civil Service Act to be adopted today are in some respects very good, important and useful. In this way, it would have been desirable for all civil service institutions to make the same contribution to the federal government throughout Austria. It is currently true that special facilities in which civil servants work and who do not have regulated revenue speak of outpatient services or services in the field of disability or old-age assistance, each year have to go to the countries or municipalities to obtain subsidies to cover personnel costs et cetera. Since the first day, these institutions had to transfer an amount of up to 7 300 s per civil servant per month to the federal government. On the other hand, other institutions, such as the so-called Blue Light Institutions, whose costs are mainly borne by costs of the local health telephone, pension and accident insurance institutions, have not yet had to make any contributions to the federal government, and they will still not have to do so next year. Minister! I have already referred to it in the Committee: This inequality, which continues to persist throughout the next year, is simply a distortion of competition between state organizations, says "blue light organizations" and private organisations. This large package of refunds to be made available by private organizations to the Federal Ministry of the Interior for the provision of civil servants is no longer manageable by the small institutions at this level. On the other hand, the EIA and the Liberals have managed to ensure that "blue light organizations" continue to be excluded from these costs. It has also been said that the Committee on Mr Moser from the Liberal Forum has even made a request that "blue light organizations" should continue to be allocated without the reimbursement of the costs of civilians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] Mr Moser! It is only the question of how you want to justify this to institutions that have to finance themselves privately, that they have to pay the full contribution, up to 7 300 S, while "blue light organizations" which, as I have said, are still to be financed foreignly and have fixed finance, are still to be free civilians. Today it has also been mentioned that "blue light organizations" cannot now be burdened with these amounts, because it concerns the countries, and the countries now have to take more or less deep into their pockets. – Of course, countries need to get deeper into the bag, but: Who has asked the private aid organizations to date how far they must get into the bag now? That wasn't a theme for you either! How these are to survive, you have never been worried about this. Make it all of a sudden However, you are concerned if these facilities are to pay 1,228 S per month. But you still don't worry about facilities that still pay up to 7 300 S! If that's right, I wonder where you live. You don't need to worry about 1,200 s if it's natural that 7 300 s must be taken by others. Minister! I also said it in committee: In order to achieve genuine equality between "blue light organizations" and other civil servants' organisations, it would be essential that all civil service bodies should have equal amounts per civil servant per year to be transferred to the Federation. Whether it's 1,732 S or 1,228 S, I don't think it's the decisive. It is crucial that all the bodies concerned are equated to ensure equal opportunities. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Only by adopting this motion for a resolution would it be possible for all civil servants in all the institutions of Austria to be treated equally. That should, please, be the goal of the National Council! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13883	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. The honourable Member's friend has been reported to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13907	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The current Civil Service Act Novelle is essentially about two important innovations: firstly, some additions and modifications to the non-refundable foreign service for civil servants; and secondly, the introduction of a minimum monthly reimbursement of 1,228 s per civil servant. The foreign service of civil servants is an alternative to civil service, from the point of view of the task, content and objective. It is new, ladies and gentlemen, that a contractual obligation to provide a foreign service must be made before assignment to ordinary civil service. The main purpose of this innovation is to avoid abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The second major change in the Civil Service Act is the introduction of a minimum cost of 1,228 S for all civil service organisations. The introduction of such a cost replacement is not to be seen by the organisations concerned or by other bodies as a kind of punishment. Costs are saved in all resorts. The introduction of a civil service cost replacement of 1,228 S is mainly aimed at the financial discharge of the civil service budget at the Ministry of the Interior. These regulations also cover the so-called blue light devices. These include, first and foremost, the Red Cross, the labourer Samaritan covenant, but also the volunteer fire brigades. It is common to all of them that these are institutions that are committed to the overall well-being of people. These organizations were and still depend on the use of civil servants and many voluntary and voluntary employees. So far, they have not had to pay any compensation to the federal government. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The "blue light facilities" can no longer be thought away from our everyday lives. Originally, a much higher minimum cost was assumed. A remuneration of 2,744 S was still provided for in the assessment draft. This would have been an unreasonable burden for social organisations. Mr Dietachmayr! They said in your remarks that the countries should pay these costs out of their budgets. In my view, it is much too easy to do so. [[Abg. Leikam: That's country!]] This amount was too high for me or the EIA, and we therefore voted in favour of a re-adjustment and advocated that this amount be reduced. It was agreed on 1 700 s for the time being. In the Committee we were then able to impose a further reduction in this amount. I would like to mention here that, in particular, both the liberals and the Greens have made great efforts to settle these costs at a much higher level. I do not understand, Mrs Haidlmayr, why you are calling for these costs to be increased to the 7 000 S to be made by other institutions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] They should be more committed to reducing them if they are thought to be too high. So I don't understand your philosophy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: In other facilities they must also be lowered!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say: In spite of the differing views on the amount of remuneration on one, I think, but some: The service of individual civil servants should be of particular importance and should also be appreciated. The ÖVP considers civil service, which is a military service, to be important. In most cases, civil servants consciously decide on this step, they often develop high social awareness during their civil service period. The result is that, after the end of their civil service, they continue to be available to civil service organisations as voluntary agents in many cases. This closes the circle again. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Without voluntary helpers, neither the Red Cross nor various other social services could continue to exist in their present form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13973	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e13994	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In principle, a Civil Service Law Novelle, in which there is in fact a clarification of the rules on recognition procedures, which is sound and sound, and which provides for the control of civil servants and their utilization, is to be supported. Mr Freund here said that he could not understand that Mr Haidlmayr and the liberals are taking action to ensure that, in the case of cost replacement, equality between the "blue light institutions", such as the Red Cross, takes place with other civil service facilities. To this end, I would like to say to him: I assume that Mr Freund has also received several addresses from taxi operators, which clearly shows that the Red Cross has opened up a new branch of business. From the so-called sitting taxi transports, the "Sitting-Sickness-Taxi-Transport" transports were included in the form. This new business was introduced. That is to say, one takes it into account that there is a disparity between the fact that taxi companies that have to pay a commercial tax which have to pay a wage tax which does not have tax advantages or exemptions which the Red Cross has to fight in competition with preferred "blue light facilities", such as in this case the Red Cross. This is left in the rain. It is simply not true, Mr Commissioner, that, as you have tried to give the impression, we are committed to the fact that the activity of volunteer workers would create additional costs for the Red Cross. A specific damage has been done to a professional group. It is not recognizable what sense that should have. The Federal Minister has said in the Committee on the issue of the use of civil servants as medical transporters in the context of this new branch of business that no single job is to be lost by civil servants. That's exactly what happens. It is for this reason not to support this novel, and it is also not to be welcomed that the reduction has been made from the anyway leaner 2 700 S to just over 1 300 S. ==References====External links== January 1999. I would like to make another point, which concerns § 18 of the Civil Service Act, which requires a basic course. Mr Federal Minister, I assume that you are aware that in the context of "political education", which has 28 teaching units to be included, there are videos on which pictures of people from all over the world, but not necessarily from Austria, are shown, where children who are overcast with petrol, where pregnant women who are cut to the belly are seen. It shows how bad it is in this world. There are people from all over the world, only no Austrians are shown. Then comes a presentation of the "Police State of Austria". Documentation on organized neo-fascism follows. Horror pictures are shown, but one naturally forgets to report about Ebergassing and the like. This is not happening in this context. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to ensure that appropriate criteria for the training of civil servants are applied as part of this basic course, which is necessary and which lasts three weeks, and to make use of reasonable training in this area. My colleague, Mr Scheibner, has already said that we do not agree with the external services of civil servants that we believe that civil service should in principle be carried out in Austria and not abroad. Of course, we have the question of the "Radio Mozambique" civilian service in all the places to which civilian servants are made available, to find some reasons to put the humanitarian in the foreground. We liberals believe that the civil servants in Austria should be serving. For the reasons mentioned above, we will not give our consent. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14048	Mr Hans Helmut Moser came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14073	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already referred in detail to the current amendment to the Civil Service Act, which is why only a few comments have been made. We Liberals believe that it is both right and positive that, after this question has not been adequately resolved, it is now a matter of clarification of the foreign civil service. We welcome the fact that the use of civil servants abroad is indeed a useful one and that the previous, somewhat bizarre, uses belong to the past. I would like to ask the Federal Minister, after the competence of use has reached the Ministry of the Interior, to examine very carefully the extent to which the interests of the Republic are actually affected and to ensure that appropriate utilization is carried out within the framework of the Foreign Civil Service. I expect, Mr Federal Minister, that you give the conditions for this and then, if these conditions are not met, have the courage to withdraw the approval. Secondly, this amendment deals with equal opportunities for civil service providers in the remuneration of services provided by civil servants. It is true, Mrs Haidlmayr, that in the Committee I have tabled an amendment to the provision that 'blue light organizations' now also have to pay a corresponding contribution, in which I thought that there would be a reduction in costs at the national level or in the area of the communities, and therefore that the communities which have to bear a great deal of financial burden also have great costs in the field of social services, which means that they will have to take additional burdens. However, I have been convinced of the arguments that it makes sense to achieve equality and that the solution proposed is more just than the solution previously proposed. And for this reason, we will accept the new regulation – although there are still discrepancies, although there is still a sheer open, but one will then have to consider in a next step how equal treatment can be achieved. I believe that the amount now set constitutes an appropriate remuneration. The fact that this provision only applies to 1. In January 1999, it must be seen in the light of the need for time to change. It takes time for the institutions to draw up the budget. We cannot adopt a law today that will be valid next year if the budgets for it are already adopted today. The same applies to the communities. These must also be given at least one year of preparation. I believe that this regulation is acceptable because it eliminates injustices and we will therefore agree to this amendment. Finally, I should like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to the situation in the field of "political education" within the framework of civil service; I have already done so in the Committee. I believe that this is a very important project and should therefore be given more attention and added more importance to it than that so far obviously was the case, among other things, of a newspaper report by the "Presse" of 26. This year, it is criticised that "political education" is taught in a way that is unacceptable. Mr. Federal Minister, I may ask you, as this article was published on 26 May. It was released on November 11th. December to report to us today in the House what concrete measures you have taken in order to prevent "political education" as described in this article. I should like to repeat my proposal here that it would make sense to reorganise the concept of "political education" within the framework of civil service. It would be very positive and very useful to extend an invitation to the political academies of the parties to draw up a new concept in this context, so as to provide a very broad political basis for "political education" in the context of civil service. I can say again: We will give our approval to this novel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14132	It has Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl in word. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14153	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate - although different positions have been taken and some of the ladies and gentlemen of this House will not agree to this draft law - has shown that civil service is recognised by all the political parties represented in this House. It has become an essential component in Austria. I think that is necessary, important and correct. This revision of the Civil Service Act concerns the re-regulation of the external service for civil servants and the introduction of a minimum amount of remuneration to be paid by all organisations in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I give the right to those who believe that civil service should in principle be carried out domestically. The overwhelming majority of all civilian servants also do away with it domestically. In this year, 6 440 civilians were called up, of which only 62, i.e. not even 1 percent of all civilians, are serving abroad. But I believe that there are some cases in which this is necessary and important in order to show clearly political flag and to deal with our past. I therefore believe that we should maintain civil service as part of the commemoration of the victims of fascism and nationalism. I consider civil service in the field of memorial services, peace services and social services to be very important and good abroad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say to the discussion on the payment of a cost replacement that I know that this cost replacement is currently very unsatisfyingly regulated. There are a large number of organisations that pay a fairly high amount. The Austrian state, we all pay per civil servant per month about 12 300 p. Civil service organisations must pay for a civil servant after completion of the basic service approximately 2 500 S to 7 500 S. Except for that, only the "blue light organizations" were so far. I believe that this exception is no longer justified because all other organizations are also active in an area where they are not only based on profit, but where they are active in the interests of people, the social sector and where they are active to help other people. That is why I think it is right and legitimate that "blue light organizations" are not excluded from a basic amount. However, I would ask for an understanding of the fact that 'blue light organizations' cannot be taxed quite financially from today to tomorrow. The basic contribution that we are now calling for will cost the "blue light organizations" from 1999 to about 40 to 41 million schillings. I think it is justified that this is not to be done within a very short time, but the "blue light organizations" have a preparation period of one year. That's why we decided to do this law only with 1. In January 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to radiation. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dietachmayr spoke of the increasing acceptance of civil service in the population, and I would like to underline what he said. Studies show that 77 percent of the Austrian population see civil service as a good thing and believe that the civil servant makes a very important and very important contribution to our society. I say, ladies and gentlemen, that many organizations in Austria, who work voluntarily and volunteerly, could not carry out their activities to the present extent or extent without the establishment of civil service. And I think that we must also pay great attention to this moment in every discussion we have in the future. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The number of civil servants has fallen very, very much in recent years. In 1993, there were 13,874 persons seeking civil service services, and this figure fell to just over 6,000 in the year. Nevertheless, we have been able to guarantee civil service organisations that 6 400 civilians will be assigned again this year. I believe that it is very, very important and necessary that the funds now coming from this basic contribution are also used for the additional increased allocation of civilian servants. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to remind you that we currently have 700 recognised civil service institutions – a record number – and that these 700 recognised civil service institutions provide a very important social part of the work that benefits people in our country. In this sense, I would like to stress that after years of civil service the partly very controversial discussion is now in a very constant phase. I think this is very, very necessary and important for this institution, because I believe that the many civil servants are making an important, indeed invaluable contribution to many social institutions in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14226	Mr Schwemlein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14247	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Positive developments cannot, I believe, be emphasized and underlined often enough – therefore few comments on this Civil Service Act-Novelle and on the statements made by Mr Scheibner. It is clear that the argument on the part of the liberals concludes. Mr Scheibner has strongly opposed military service abroad. If you look – as this is now clearly and clearly defined – at what form this service can be performed abroad, you will also understand why Mr Scheibner is likely to have problems and difficulties with it. Because one of the possibilities, one of the areas in which one can render this service, is commemorative service. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a fool!]] I could imagine that you may have problems with this, as well as with the second area, peace service. Perhaps you do not want Austrian civil servants to make a contribution to this. However, I do not propose, Mr Scheibner, that you have problems on the third point concerning social services. [[Abg. Scheibner: I have a fundamental problem with this, colleague, but you have not understood that!]] Mrs Haidlmayr – unfortunately she is not here – has tabled a motion for a resolution which is not necessarily supported, because the point of view of Mr Haidlmayr is not quite coherent. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You should be called "swimmling"!]] There is a wealth of different civil service facilities, which cannot all be shaved over a performance. It must be very different whether these institutions have a high or low proportion of volunteer staff, because, of course, lower fees should be taken into account for a higher number of volunteers. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has explained in a very precise way the further improvements of this Civil Service Act Novelle, and I may ask you all to agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14315	The last speaker was Dr Maitz. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14337	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For 37 years Austrian soldiers have been serving the UN peace services abroad. The UN soldiers received the Nobel Prize a few years ago. That is why this peace service of soldiers must be respected and recognized! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The same respect and the same recognition is also due to those civil servants who are 14 months – 14 months! – free of charge in a foreign country under the most difficult conditions of commemorative service, social service or peace service. I would like to expressly support this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Very right!]] Making peace also means making a decent life possible, and therefore I have at the time selected among the 18 organisations currently recognized by the institutions who deal with the problem of "road children" in Bucharest, which I have been aware of together with colleagues Scheibner. The Caritas Vienna and Feldkirch, together with Jesuit Father Georg Sporschill and Mrs Ruth Zenkert, have installed a project for the street children in Bucharest, and it really goes under the skin when you read the documentation about it. That is why I also wondered, yes, it hurt me, when colleague Herbert Scheibner literally said: such civil servants – those abroad – withdraw from their duty. [[Abg. Scheibner: As a military service, sure!]] I really ask you to think about it. In Bucharest there are "road children", four-year-old, six-year-old, eleven-year-old orphans who have nothing at all, and these street children help Luke Trentini, whom I could get to know, as civil servants abroad. If you look at this documentation... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There are many years of projects needed! That's no more civil service!]] It serves there for 14 months, and the Caritas and the Jesuits of course operate the project primarily with chief professional helpers. Experience report of a civil servant: "I've seen how few people have to live with. I have met another world, and I have won friends: five-year-old, seven-year-old, eleven-year-old children without parents, without prospects, without hope." [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Look at the domestic social organizations that need civilians!]] Of course, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! In the country there are many great social institutions that strive for children. But such misery as with the "Street Children" in Bucharest, with the children of hopelessness I have never experienced. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That is why I really ask everyone not to discriminate against this foreign service! He deserves recognition and respect, and it is good for us to see this idealistic service as such.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14433	Mr Scheibner spoke for the second time. The remaining speaking time for the second speech is 16 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14454	Mr President. Mr Schwemlein's remarks have prompted me to go to the speaker's desk again. – Mr Schwemlein, it is really too stupid that, if you represent an opinion that is not yours – and that is probably not everybody – you always try to hit the same score again and again. [[Call the SPÖ:So please!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Leave him, he has nothing else!]] I'm telling you one thing, because it's really too stupid for me: I have nothing against commemorative service, not because my family has also been persecuted by National Socialism. I have nothing against social services abroad, and I have nothing against peace services abroad. But in my speech – and you will have to admit this to me without defaming my group and me – I have referred to the current constitutional situation, and I have said: As long as the constitutional situation is such that civil service is a military service, it should only be carried out domestically. But I also voted in favour of volunteering both military service and civil service, because of course all that is now being done would be necessary. Mr Schwamlein, once again: If you have arguments that are against our opinion, then bring them in, but leave the bottom drawer closed!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14508	There is no more word message. I'll close the debate. There is no such thing as the rapporteur's conclusion. We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 986 of the Supplements. This draft contains constitutional provisions, so that I will first determine the presence required for the vote of the constitutional number of Members of this House. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This draft is adopted by a majority, with the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft at third reading to give a sign. – The draft was also adopted by the majority at the third reading, with the two-thirds quorum also being prescribed. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the same amount of compensation for civil service to the Confederation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. 16. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment No 563/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Kholund Comrades on a Federal Law on the Prohibition of Blinding Laser Weapons (985 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14586	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. There has been no oral reporting, so that we can go into the debate at once. I give the floor to Mrs Dr Karlsson as the first speaker. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14612	Mr President. Mr. Minister! What about the ban on laser weapons? – Laser is a very blessed invention on and on, especially in medicine, the laser beam is increasingly extensive and very successful. But there is nothing good about human inventions without someone coming and saying that you could actually make a weapon out of it. That's exactly what happened. The laser weapon has already been developed for serial maturity, but is not yet produced. That is why we decide on this ban at the right time. The definition of the laser weapon is based on an additional protocol to the UN Waffen Convention, which was adopted in Vienna in October 1995. The defense of this weapon is a rather small, more secondary. But these laser weapons, if they were mass produced, would be the weapon for organised crime and terrorism. They are far from recognizable, they work far away and lead directly to incurable blindness. Ladies and gentlemen! The whole thing looks like this: In a backpack, the laser is generated, and the device with which it is targeted does not have to look like a gun – for example, it can be camouflaged as a ballpoint pen. It is not recognizable for the victim of a bank robbery whether it is a laser weapon or not. That is why it is also so important that this weapon is not produced in mass. The request for a ban is a five-party request, and I am very pleased that all the parties of the House have reached an agreement on this very matter, that we have a broad majority here and that Austria wishes to take a step forward on the path of peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14655	The next speaker is Mr Amon. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14677	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can fully agree with my previous speaker. I too am very pleased that this prohibition law has succeeded in making a five-party application. It is actually the continuation of a consistent policy against inhuman weapons, as we have also succeeded in the anti-personnel mines. The current Convention or, rather, the International Protocol only provides for a ban on use in the case of war. Our present federal law continues: It also prohibits the development, manufacture, procurement, mediation, sale, import, export and transit of such inhuman weapons. I should also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14737	The amendment just tabled by Mr Amon is, in accordance with business rules, sufficient support and is included in the negotiations. Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14761	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If one does not have to deal with weapons every day or with the production of weapons, it is actually impossible to develop a weapon whose sole purpose is to destroy the human eye and cause lasting blindness. In fact, this bad vision has become reality, and this weapon, as I have taken from the explanatory remarks, is already ripe for series production. That means that this bad vision has become a terrible, threatening reality. That is why I am very glad that this request has been made, although we must be aware that we are only sending a signal with it, a very small signal. I believe that Austria is one of the few countries that make such a ban. I also believe that it is urgently necessary for the Federal Government to give this small signal broad effect by pointing out in all international bodies, especially in the EU, how important it would be to ban these blinding laser weapons. This means that a ban on these weapons must be imposed in several countries and consequently worldwide. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear Minister of the Interior! But we must also break our heads about how we will implement the provision contained in the draft law, namely the ban on imports, transits and exports of these weapons. Now we cannot even control whether hazardous waste is transported or exported through Austria. I believe that it is urgently necessary that the operation actually works. On the one hand, one cannot forbid possession, but on the other hand one can see how such weapons are carried out freshly and cheerfully through Austria and then come into the hands of criminals. I hope you and count very much on your understanding, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I expect you to present us with proposals or a report on what you are going to do to ensure that such weapons are not in circulation in Austria from your side. – In addition, we will vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14811	Mr Hans Helmut Moser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14843	Mr President. Federal Minister! My previous speakers presented the legal situation of the novels of this federal law accordingly. It is based on the prohibition of anti-person sonic mines. In the National Council, we have really done so in an exemplary way. I can also say, because of my activity in the Council of Europe, that the Committees have discussed the issue of the ban on anti-personnel mines and that, Mrs Karlsson can confirm that, with great satisfaction, Austria, together with two other countries in Europe, has taken a first step. I therefore believe that it really is in line with the continuation of our tradition that we are now also voting for a ban on blinding laser weapons and that we are all insisting on this ban to bring about a similar regime, i.e. a worldwide concern, as Mrs Partik-Pablé has already mentioned. But I would particularly like to point out one point, which is why I believe that it is so important that we decide on a ban on blinding weapons. I should like to refer to the International Red Cross newspaper, which points out, inter alia, that there is a great danger of these weapons coming into terrorist hands. If there were a global ban and a ban on these weapons, terrorists would not be able to use them. Although any ban may be broken, at least the probability would be greatly reduced. That is to say, this ban is a very important contribution to the safety of people, both in our country and in the world. That is why I think it makes sense and is right for us to adopt this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14881	There is another speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e14902	Dobar ve#er, poštovane lady i gospodo! [[Abg. Gaugg: What?- Oh, my God!]] Having heard only praise and conciliatory words from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – in the Committee we have already discussed this – I think only one thing, and allow me to be a little bit stingy in this regard: Thank God no one has this laser weapon yet! After all, according to the motto of the EIA, it would be as follows: One could no longer take away the owners of such weapons. This is the attitude of the EIAs when it is not about something very concrete and serious in connection with such weapons. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is an attack!]] Because the problem of these blinding laser weapons is so far away from us, and – as Mr Karlsson has reported – they are already being developed in serial maturity, but not yet produced. [[Abg. Murauer: You deliberately say the untruth!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is my concern to say at this point that there is an acute need for action in Austria in connection with these weapons, their placing on the market and their use. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But that's a difference! You can't throw that into a pot! I'd like you to stay honest.]] – Of course there is a difference, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé. However, I am speaking to colleagues in another sector in the conscience, because, in fact, there has already been a great deal of unhappiness in our country almost weekly. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We can give up on your conscience worm!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're an accident!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and dear Mr Klubobmann Khol! I ask you, if we are all in such pre-Christmas peace and in agreement with this draft law against blinding laser weapons, in particular to use the approaching Christmas season to rethink your position on the need for innovation in the arms law so that there can be a joint initiative next year.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15020	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report will not be desired. I now ask for attention, because we are coming to the vote. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 985 of the Supplements. Deputies Dr. Karlsson, Kiss, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Mag. Stoisits and Hans Helmut Moserund Comrades have an amendment concerning § 2 para. 4 to be introduced. There is only one request. I therefore leave immediately on the draft law, title and receipt in 985 of the supplements, as amended by the amendment tabled by Dr Karlsson, Kiss, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Mag. Stoisits and Hans Helmut Moserund Comrades vote. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – The adoption was unanimous. The draft was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading to a sign. The draft was also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: (on the empty banks of the Greens) Where are the Greens?- Oh, my God!]] 17. Point report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government template (767 of the Supplements): Conventions pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union establishing a European Police Office (EUROPOL) and Annexes and Declarations; Protocol pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the interpretation of the Convention on the establishment of a European Police Office by the Court of Justice of the European Communities by means of a preliminary ruling and a declaration by the Republic of Austria (984 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15070	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item. There has been no oral reporting, so that I am now the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Lammer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15094	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What we are discussing today on this item on the agenda is the Treaty establishing a European Police Office, the so-called EUROPOL Convention. The aim is to improve international cooperation with a view to preventing and combating terrorism, illicit drug trafficking and other serious forms of international crime, provided that there is evidence of a criminal organisational structure. The tasks are to create a separate computer network for EUROPOL, in which on the one hand, an information file is to be drawn up. Critics have already warned that citizens would hardly have the opportunity to control these files and defend themselves against abuse. If you look at opinions on this draft, you will find that the Court of Auditors, too, is very likely to criticise this proposal by saying that the presentation of the cost includes too little, i.e. that it does not comply with the provisions of § 14 of the Federal Budget Act. The state government of Vienna, for example, says: In the case of costs, the costs of the extended audit work and the increased administrative burden of the Data Protection Commission are not quoted. The Federal Ministry of Finance also states that there was a lack of resources for the establishment and operation of computer systems, so there was no agreement from a budgetary point of view. The text 767 of the Supplements begins with and for itself our approval, as it really includes those tasks which are absolutely necessary for the fight against international crime, and because officials can also cover these areas. However, the Government template 984 of the Supplements was withdrawn from the Committee, which includes the privileges and immunities for EUROPOL, for the following reason: They wanted to prevent a joint debate on both proposals. However, in the opinion of the Liberals, these two proposals must be negotiated together, because they also include cross-references and cross-border links. Mr Leikam! For example, if you look at the second government template, you can see that Article 2 contains the cross-link to Article 38 of the proposal which is being discussed here today. That is why we believe that these two proposals must be negotiated together. There are some good comments here, for example in the "Salzburger Nachrichten", issue of 26. November 1997, which says: The planned European Police Office EUROPOL will be a state in the state that will enjoy numerous "privileged and immunities". ... As a result, the license for sniffing will be almost limitless, and the national authorities will be effectively eliminated. The Euro-Cops will receive "immunity of any jurisdiction as regards the oral and written statements and actions made by them in the performance of their duties". Data collections may be made not only by suspects but also by potential witnesses and victims. The data stored electronically is transferred "without prior special authorisation" across Europe. "Sealed containers" may be used for other consignments and transports. Furthermore, EUROPOL will be "exempted from any direct tax and not subject to financial control." - Quote. This was a report of the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', with the fact that SPÖ-EU Parliamentary Harald Ettl – also against the 'Salzburger Nachrichten' – has already explained: The planned powers of the Euro-Cops also arouse fears in the government parties. – And it goes on to say: In June, Ettl saw the "risk of the police state", since EUROPOL had been deprived of the control of the national parliaments and the European Parliament. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of these two proposals, it will be really impossible in the national field to have one control, on the other hand, to standardise service regulations in the national field, and on the other hand, the staff of EUROPOL will be equipped with the so-called immunity that is dealt with in the new government template. We liberals don't see any meaning in it. We believe that this undermines and undermines the sovereignty of the State, and we do not know how these new legal regulations will have any effect at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Another thing: Even you're on the 1st. December 1997, and also the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', said – I quote –: However, Schlögl acknowledged that, in the longer term, the privilege of immunity was a control right at European level. – And another quote to EUROPOL: This would have "pure service character" and serve "the exchange of information", but would not in any way have the power to intervene in any way. If there is an extension of these competences, one must reconsider the immunity, Schlögl said. - Quote. Federal Minister! In accordance with Article 38 of the present proposal, these are already operational measures. Because of the fact that the addition to Article 41 states that, if the Member States have agreed to the first government proposal and then treat the second one, they must also agree to this proposal, we cannot accept such a procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15166	I call Mr Leikam. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15188	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lammer, I'm right about you. We too would have liked to discuss both of these proposals together today. They also belong together, no question at all. Why we cannot deal with these proposals together today is exclusively in the area of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, because it did not want this item to be discussed at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Just as you do anything we want!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! Four political groups were prepared to include this protocol in the agenda. They have explained that this is a paper too far-reaching, which cannot be dealt with in the short term, so it cannot be dealt with together in the Committee on the Interior. And that was the only point left. I am right, however, that the two proposals had been put together. We should have discussed them together, but unfortunately it did not happen. Therefore, at one of the next meetings of the Committee on the Interior, we will still have to deal with the second part of this EUROPOL Convention. Ladies and gentlemen! The EUROPOL Working Group was set up in the Council of the EU in November 1993. From July 1994, Austria was represented as an active observer in this group. ==References====External links== January 1995 is Austria's full-fledged member country in this working group. The Convention on ratification to the National Council today, as my previous speaker has already said, will lead to mutual information and better police cooperation within Europe. The aim is to effectively prevent and combat terrorism and organised crime. EUROPOL based in The Hague is a central information centre where information is collected and passed on. Mr Lammer! EUROPOL officials have no executive powers. This is also clear from today's government proposal. That means they must not self-detect. They simply have a service function, but they must not become operational. Ladies and gentlemen! Organized crime is a fact. A first and important step has been taken to combat organised crime by the decision on specific methods of investigation in the fight against organised crime. With today's ratification of the Convention establishing a European Police Office, another important step is taken to combat organised crime. For one thing is clear to each one of us: Without the cooperation of international institutions at European level and beyond, it is unlikely that no country alone will succeed in successfully fighting and pushing back organised crime, as criminals are not known to have any limits. . It is therefore of course for us to give our approval to this government template.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15237	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15260	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with the government proposal in connection with the Convention establishing a European Police Office. I would like to say that we are in principle voting for the establishment of this police office. We believe that this is a further step in the development of the third pillar of the Maastricht Treaty, a further form of cooperation at European level in the area of police and justice. Such cooperation is certainly necessary when considering the extent to which crime has developed in recent times. Here are some figures on crime statistics from our country: In 1996, the number of drug offences increased by 66 percent, some 1,600 tractors were arrested, and more than 13,000 motor vehicles were stolen. I therefore believe that it is quite justified to bring about an intensification in the fight against organised crime at European level and in cooperation with European services. The establishment of this police office is therefore a first step towards combating crime. This is about setting up an analytical centre and an information system. A second step, ladies and gentlemen and Mr Leikam, will be the possibility of police investigations for EUROPOL. Although this is not the case in the explanatory remarks, I should like to point out to Mr Leikam and also to the former Minister of the Interior, Mr Löschnak, the new Article K.2 of the EU Treaty, which reads as follows: "The Council is promoting" - and this has been decided in Amsterdam - "cooperation by the European Police Office (EUROPOL) and is carried out within five years of the entry into force of this Treaty in particular as follows:" – And then, among other things, point b –: "It shall lay down measures allowing, on the one hand, EUROPOL to address the competent authorities of the Member States with the request, to conduct and coordinate investigations in specific cases...." - Quote. That means that this EUROPOL... – Of course, Mr President! [[Abg. Leikam: Member States!]] The EUROPOL can conduct investigations on its own within the next five years, i.e. it is very likely that the operational element will be added. We must be aware that this will install a European FBI, with the possibility that Euro-Cops will carry out investigations in Austria within the next few years. That's a fact. I believe that if the EUROPOL is already created, it must not arise in this form. It cannot be said that the establishment of such a police office is at the expense of the fundamental and freedom rights of people and that the rule of law remains on the road. That is why we will not give Liberals our approval to this draft law. This is the next attack on the freedom of citizens, which is why we do not want to give our consent to this government proposal. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In our opinion, there are three areas in which fundamental and freedom rights are blasphemously violated. This is first of all the area of data protection. The provision de facto means that everyone can be caught. Mr Leikam! I can refer to Article 10 of this Convention. It states that not only data is collected by persons who have committed criminal acts, but also data from persons who are considered as witnesses, or from persons who may become victims of a crime. – Each of us can be considered as a victim, contact or companion. As a general rule, the protection of private data is absolutely categorically at risk. De facto also has no way to get information. There is no obligation for EUROPOL to pass on such information to interested citizens. Mr Leikam! You're shaking your head again. I'll read you article 19 – I quote –: "If a communication on the data is provided for in the law of the Member State concerned, it shall be refused as far as is necessary for the proper performance of the tasks of EUROPOL." - No, no, no, no, no, With this argument, everything can be justified or rejected. Another argument that can also justify or reject everything is the protection of the security of Member States, public order or the fight against crimes. That's clear. If a person can be captured as a witness, a possible companion or whatever, this serves to combat a crime from the point of view of EUROPOL, and an information is therefore refused. But that cannot be the purpose and purpose of this institution! The same applies to the wording "to protect the rights and freedoms of third persons". I believe that these derogations will de facto not provide any information on EUROPOL and therefore limit the rights of citizens. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Second area: There is de facto no democratic control of this EUROPOL, even by the European Parliament. It is only a report to the European Parliament, but it has no means at all to reject it or to adopt concrete measures. There is no control by national parliaments; that is not at all foreseen. The involvement of the European Court of Justice is not adequately regulated. It is known that the possibility of control exists only in cases between Member States and therefore there is no control according to a standard as we imagine it to be; a standard worthy of a democratic rule of law. This cannot be accepted. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The third and last point is the issue of immunity granted to EUROPOL employees. I know that we will still have to discuss this question separately, but it is one reason why we reject the establishment of this office. This immunity goes so far that the employees of any jurisdiction are deprived. The withdrawal of immunity is a matter for the Director of EUROPOL. And this is something I find very "loving": He can only lift them up, "if it serves righteousness." What does that mean? – This is a provision that is completely incomprehensible, and therefore there will in fact be no abolition of immunity. It would be a minimum requirement for a parliamentary committee to be set up, to deal specifically with this issue, and to decide, as an independent body, whether or not the immunity of a particular person should be removed. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Furthermore, all official papers, papers and other official materials are inviolable and subject to full protection. Thus, the following situation arises: An immunity to EUROPOL beyond the judicial protection of intelligence services is defined! – Ladies and gentlemen! That's inconvenient! It is unacceptable if police units enjoy such immunity that they can eventually become a state in the state – and that will be the case. We Liberals do not want to encourage such a development in Europe or in Austria. We shall therefore reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15332	I call Mr Platter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15353	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Terrorism and organised crime are growing to a very special extent due to modern technological possibilities. Organised crime in the Western European countries will become so dangerous – I would say almost existential – that politics, as well as law enforcement authorities, must be rethinked and not limited to purely responding. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, too, the area of organised crime is taking very worrying forms. The share of organised crime in total crime is between 30 and 35 percent. Unfortunately, God’s fear is that this trend will worsen. I therefore believe that organised crime in Europe flourishes better than ever. The profits from the organized crime are considerable. The economic damage caused by organized crime must undoubtedly be paid by each individual of the citizens, because the insurance premiums must necessarily be increased. Ladies and gentlemen! What causes the organized crime of damage, I would like to say briefly in the example of Russia. According to the Russian Ministry of the Interior, there are 8 000 criminal associations in Russia: 8 000 criminal associations that undermine legal economic and social institutions, criminal associations that intervene in privatisation programmes and influence private enterprises. That's how they frighten investors from abroad. In Russia, some 35 000 entrepreneurs and 400 banks are responsible for organised crime. Around 80 percent of private entrepreneurs have to pay between 10 and 20 percent of their income to criminals. From this one sees the importance of organised crime to a state and the devastating effects it has given. If you look closer to Italy in Russia, a recent study shows that organized crime controls businesses, companies and financial institutions in Italy. According to this study, 20 percent of construction companies, 20 percent of retail business, 25 percent of agricultural wholesale trade and 50 percent of financial institutions in Italy are controlled by organised crime. Ladies and gentlemen! This study really shows the impact of organised crime on a state. Mr Moser! From this point of view, we must see today's vote on the EUROPOL Convention. Honourable Member Moser! I can only appreciate your rejection of the EUROPOL Convention in such a way that today, on this "moss" day, you will undoubtedly have too many issues in mind. But I understand that today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Very good, Günther!]] Ladies and gentlemen! EUROPOL is under construction. A total of 120 liaison officers from the EU countries are available, but they do not carry out any operational activities as stated here today. However, I criticise that Austria currently has only two liaison officers in The Hague. Minister! I believe that these two officials cannot be found to be successful. I therefore ask you to take appropriate measures so that in future more well-trained and more well-trained liaison officials from Austria will: The Hague will be sent so that the information system can also work well here in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on the basis of an example, I would like to stress the need for the EUROPOL Convention. In Italy, a procedure was initiated against a mafia group operating worldwide in drug trafficking and in the field of arms sliding. This procedure was supported by liaison officers in The Hague. This information, as well as international cooperation, has enabled other states to carry out their own investigation procedures and to arrest offenders established there. As a result, investigations were carried out in Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. Finally, a total of 65 suspects from five EU Member States were arrested. There is no doubt that EUROPOL was a decisive factor in this success. Therefore, for me and for the ÖVP, the consent to the EUROPOL Convention is of course a matter of course. But I demand more Austrian liaison officers in The Hague.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15408	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15429	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. Five comments on the EUROPOL Convention – since I do not want to repeat everything that Mr Moser has already expressed on matters of content – in the near future. For me as a Green Group and for the Green Group, there is no doubt that in the common Europe and in the European Union, of course, it is necessary to take action to protect citizens against cross-border crime. One has to take seriously the insecurity that exists in the population. The fact that the causes of crime must be dealt with intensively, but also with and implemented intensively, is not a question at all. Federal Minister! That is why we would like you to pay particular attention to this need for prevention due to border openings and increasing cross-border crime. The need for police and police cooperation across borders is also out of question. At this point I would like to repeat all that I have already told you in committee. But the Ladies and gentlemen – too many are not here – do not all belong to the Committee on the Interior. Thus, even if those who have heard it have to hear it a second time, it may be quite instructive for the others. It is essential for me to note that cooperation between police and security authorities will become more and more important in the future due to developments just described, especially to the eastern neighbours. That's essential. This cooperation must, of course, be as direct, as flexible, as close to or as local as possible and as unbureaucratic as possible. That's not a question at all. That is why – this is the second comment – we believe that EUROPOL does not need it, but that it is the existing, relatively close union of police cooperation – or do you want to say that there has not been police cooperation in the past? – that is to say, the existing resources available. Without a doubt, the Interpol is a very proven centre for international attacks and international analyses of crime. Austria benefits from its resources, and other countries do. This is just an example of international cooperation that already exists. I would just like to give a second example shortly: the Financial Action Task Force of Directorate-General VII. There is no doubt that this is also an institution that has done good work. It would be necessary to promote this. It is not necessary, however, that I come to the point raised by Mr Moser, that institutions such as EUROPOL are. For me, this is the really crucial point. I did not think about this, or the Austrian Greens did not think about it, but it also showed the discussion on the EUROPOL Convention in Germany. When we look at the materials for the debate on the Bundestag, it turns out that the opinions that have been made there and the arguments that have fallen there apply to us at the same time. Only in Austria do we not have the tradition of discussing the disrespect and violation of constitutional principles or fundamental values as they exist in Germany. Unfortunately, the German Bundestag has also failed to prevent the EUROPOL Convention. Austria does as a rule, but it should not imitate every bad example. No powers to control an institution such as the EUROPOL: In my view, it is quite a mistake to say that in the Convention which is already in place in committee and on which it is being voted today, it is nowhere to have operational powers, but everyone knows - and you, Mr Federal Minister, know this much better than we all know because you are at it during the negotiations and at the Council of Ministers - that these funds have been proposed for a long time in the framework of the Intergovernmental Conference and are soon to come to our house. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: (in the empty seats of the Greens) Where are the Green Members, Mrs Stoisits?]] I therefore believe that this means is so dangerous, and I therefore reject it out of deep conviction. For in this way, the free movement of authorities which are not subject to parliamentary control – not at national or European level by the European Union and the European Parliament – this is a restriction of democratic minimum standards. I now refer to what was said here in the discussion on noise attack and grid arrest: of course, there will not be any personal data in databases. – It may be that your demands apply to Austria. I cannot estimate or evaluate this now, but I fear that it is not. At European level, however, this will be possible because it will be an objective of the tasks of EUROPOL to collect such new personal data. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore, in fact, incredible that an authority like that not even subject to the EU Data Protection Directive should be given these possibilities. There's no control at all. Everything's going to be out of edge and band. It is stated in this Convention and in the analyses that it is not only about data on criminals or suspects who may be analyzed, collected and passed on, but also about data on so-called risk groups. Also about potential – not actual, but potential! – Witnesses may collect and pass on data, including, of course, informants, victims and contact persons. What about the fundamental rights? What about the fundamental right to data protection when we conclude such agreements? Federal Minister! That's why my summary is: I reject the ratification of this Convention, because it does not comply with the principles of the Austrian Federal Constitution or with what I imagine to be European minimum standards of fundamental rights protection.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15501	The next speaker was Mr Löschnak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15522	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the debate in the run-up to this debate and this debate itself was marked by concerns and concerns, primarily by the fact that sovereignty rights and fundamental rights could be restricted or restricted by this agreement or by subsequent agreements which would complement this agreement, or that data protection provisions could be called into question or questioned, or, as Mrs Stoisits pointed out, that democratic minimum standards could be reduced or reduced. I recognize that such concerns are, of course, to be taken seriously and fully debated. Ladies and gentlemen! But this does not escape us from the task of not passing by the basics. The basic point is probably the fact that international, i.e. cross-border crime, has undoubtedly gained new dimensions and new qualities, and that it is increasingly over-regional and therefore cross-border. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Undisputed! That's right!]] First of all, this is the finding, and in that we agree. From this point of view, we must draw the relevant conclusions. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: The spirits are divorcing!]] In doing so, we do not seem to agree, as we seem to go separate ways. I would like to highlight these conclusions a little more closely. Because the question arises: What possibilities are available to us? First possibility: You leave it as it is now, that is, you leave everything with the old. In this case, I believe that crime can only increase, and at the same time the rate of education will be reduced. For at least in relation to the past, I can say that I know what I am talking about when I say that the executives have really committed themselves to a hundred percent in the past, are now committed and will continue to work in the future to get hold of the new forms of crime. This means that the existing instrumentarium will certainly not help. The second possibility: Therefore, it is tried to intensify, activate and change the fight against the described forms of crime – we agree on the basis of new means. It will not be enough – and I refer again to Mrs Stoisits – to call for Interpol, a purely information centre that will pass on data, but nothing else. Only in recent years have there been approaches to analysis, but not joint actions. In particular, however, these are necessary and will be of much greater need in the future. I therefore think that we must go beyond this exchange of data and analysis in recognition of both bilateral and multilateral commitments or agreements that we have so far had. That really needs to be discussed and counseled in good time, because it comes to us, inescapably. That is why the reference – and with that I come a third time to speak to my previous speaker – does not help further in Germany. As I heard, France and the UK have also decorated themselves to take further steps. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There must be a question of why these great nations within the EU have decorated themselves to take further steps: because, as a great person, they simply do not want to take any restrictions in this respect. This is a sign for the many little ones – and we are among them, but not just us, but also the Danes and the Belgians, for example – that they obviously have to find new forms and go new ways. In my opinion, this should be recognized in good time. This discussion must be conducted, and then a part of the questions that have been raised here – I emphasize again: rightly, because you have to discuss that – will be answered by yourself. I therefore welcome the fact that the first step will be taken with this EUROPOL Convention, and I assume that further steps will be taken. To deny that would really be a misevaluation. They will follow, and then you have to adjust in time. Our group is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15573	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15595	Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that my group is interested in improving the fight against organised crime, and that the transmission of data and so on is one of the ways to improve the so-called counterfeiting. I am not of the opinion of Mrs Stoisits, who, in a different personal opinion, claimed that there are already enough institutions for cross-border police cooperation; it would therefore be necessary to establish a new central bureaucracy with EUROPOL. – I really don't think so, but I think it is necessary to pass on international data and produce a certain flow of information. However, as my colleague Lammer has said, we are bothering, in particular, the granting of immunities to the EUROPOL officials, who are not being decided here today, but who are inseparably linked to this present government proposal. We just don't want to buy the cat in the bag. We do not want the EUROPOL officials to receive immunities so that they are no longer subject to Austrian jurisdiction at all. It could not be explained why the EUROPOL officials should enjoy such immunities. There is no logical explanation for this. A claim that may arise could be that EUROPOL officials can work better and more unobstructed if they are not threatened by criminal charges. But this is true, please, just as for the national officials. National officials are equally concerned with serious crime, so that the entire executive area should be excluded from jurisdiction if it is said: It could paralyze the entire device, these officials wouldn't be immune. That means that this explanation would not really be logical. It is likely that the EUROPOL – just like the diplomats – has a better standard and therefore wants to enjoy all immunities and privileges. But we really do not want that, and that is why we reject this government proposal. In fact, as my previous speaker said, EUROPOL is planned to become an operational unit later on. This is also said by the current head of the European police, Jürgen Storbeck. He says that, at the moment, he would be overwhelmed, there would already be an operational commitment, but at the second stage in the expansion of the entire EUROPOL system, one would obviously not be able to avoid acting like Mr Löschnak has said. But especially if EUROPOL officials are to be active in the national field, I cannot see this immunity at all. Ladies and gentlemen! We are also skeptical about the data collection. Because not only the suspects of a crime should be included in the files, but also information persons, accompanying persons and contact persons. They are all to be taken up, and this seems to us to be too large, in so far as we always have to expect these data collections to be brought into the hands of people who misguidedly deal with it. That is the second reason why we reject this EUROPOL Government template. What is also disturbing us is that there are no guidelines on which the files are built. These directives will be available only later. Therefore, we do not know in what way the data is collected and in what ways they are used afterwards. That seems to us to be a really big manko. Another point is that Parliamentary control is too low. The European Parliament has virtually no control over EUROPOL. It is only through the national contact officers that the national Parliament can be dealt with. But the national Parliament is very, very far from the EUROPOL, and that is why we do not consider control sufficient. We therefore think that this government proposal is a matter of political concern to the present draft. That is why we reject this draft.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15654	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schlögl. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15675	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I cannot share much of what has been said about criticism in any way, and I believe that this criticism in some areas is very far-reaching. I would like to try to present my position and my view of things now. The right thing has been said – and this has been said by a large number of Members – that we are facing an internationalisation of crime to an extent that has not become aware of all of us in recent years. International crime, organized crime has the best experts, the best scientists, the best technology and apparently incalculable funds available. The funds she gains with the organized crime will again be used for crime. That is why we must all be aware that a country alone cannot work successfully against organised crime, and I therefore think it was necessary and important that the Member States of the European Union set up this European Police Office in July 1995. What tasks does this European Police Office have? The aim of EUROPOL is to improve cooperation to prevent and combat terrorism, drug trafficking and all forms of international organised crime between the authorities of the European States. EUROPOL is therefore intended, after its conception, as a central point for the exchange of police information and for the analysis of crime. The establishment of EUROPOL will, I am convinced, improve cross-border police cooperation. Of course, Mrs Stoisits, there is this cross-border cooperation. But many of you suffer an illusion when they believe that it always works. I would like to propose – and will also allow me to express this invitation – that representatives of the Committee on the Interior from all parties visit EUROPOL with me next year, in order to inform themselves in The Hague locally, and also to see what difficulties there are in the exchange of information and how difficult it is and how difficult it is to get necessary information from another country. The next point, which is also very important to me: I don't see the danger of "glass man" as it was presented here. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt:... in five years!]] At times, I sometimes have the problem that in everyday political practice, especially those who represent the "glass man", Mrs Schmidt, do not deal so gently with the political opponent, and that in practice, much of what they explain in the theory looks very different. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's what's happening to us!]] I do not see the "glass people" above all because it will not be possible for EUROPOL to detect uncontrolled data and that data will be interwoven uncontrolledly. EUROPOL has no executive powers and will not have executive powers under the Treaty of Amsterdam. It is a must if someone claims that there will be executive powers under the Treaty of Amsterdam. What will there be after the Treaty of Amsterdam, ladies and gentlemen? – In essence, four points: EUROPOL is intended to support the preparation of specific investigations by the competent authorities in the Member States and to promote the coordination and implementation of such investigations. Under the Treaty of Amsterdam, executive powers are not granted to officials. Secondly, EUROPOL should be allowed to request the competent authorities of the Member States to carry out investigations in specific cases when EUROPOL experiences trends such as international organised crime. Thirdly, in addition to police cooperation, there is a better cooperation and a better network of liaisons with the judicial authorities. Fourthly, a research network is to be set up with the aim of achieving documentation and statistics on cross-border crime, of course, in an anonymized form. It is also very important: If this is really to come under the Treaty of Amsterdam, Mr Kier, I believe that this will require a new legislative act. That is to say, we will have to discuss this again in this House, as in the 15 national parliaments as a whole. That's why I don't see the danger that's painted on the wall: We can now agree to this because there are no executive powers, but after the Treaty of Amsterdam all will come five years later. - They're not coming! If it really is to do so - I cannot rule out this - that police cooperation in the common Europe will somehow be intensified in such a way that it will also lead to executive cooperation, then this will have to be decided again here in this House and also in the other parliaments. That means I don't see the danger that is too often painted on the wall. The next point I think is very important is the debate on immunity. Mrs Partik-Pablé spoke about this. Madam President, you are quite right: Of course, that belongs together. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't always give me the right, do something!]] We should have discussed this together, and I also asked that this be discussed before the meeting of the Committee on the Interior. I have been informed by Parliament that this is not possible because it has been introduced too late and the representatives of the Liberal Party have spoken against a joint referral. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But otherwise you'll blow us! Otherwise, you'll never live up to our wishes!]] I took note of that. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is my knowledge that an additional point can only be put on the agenda of a committee if all the political groups agree. Since the liberals did not agree, this was not possible at all. But I do not want to speak out on that, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been accused of several things, and that has unfortunately been rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We even asked for and filed the safety report! Suddenly, we're going to be the "evil" roadblockers!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Then it's up to you!]] So I really don't want to talk to the liberals, but just say: I would have liked to have this item on the agenda; I also asked for it. Unfortunately, this wish was not met by Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should make a better contact with fishermen!]] I have a good contact with him, thank you. But I am very happy if you would help me to make contact with Parliament even better. But what I think is even more important – and I would like to say that clearly: Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we can talk about the immunity of the EUROPOL officials. I don't have a problem with that at all. I do not necessarily need their immunity, but when we talk about it, we are so honest and talking about the immunity of all European officials. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'm for it right now!]] I do not see that one-sided EUROPOL officials are not assigned immunity, but all other European officials have such immunity. How can that be justified? . I agree with you immediately that there is a clear arrangement for everyone. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Public prosecutors are always officials! You should know that!]] This is not only about the officials of the European Union, but also about the servants of the United Nations. Finally, I would like to say something that is clear to me and what I would like to say here as a commitment to use: If the powers of EUROPOL are to be extended, of course the immunity of officials must also be discussed automatically. One cannot be connected to the other. But that's only meant for the future. I would like to mention another important point: I do not see what is painted on the wall as regards control mechanisms. First: In order to comply with data protection provisions, the EUROPOL Convention provides for both a national and an international body. Both institutions monitor compliance with the provisions on the rights to information, correction and deletion of data. As a national control organisation and agency, the Data Protection Commission is offering itself for Austria. At international level, EUROPOL will set up a joint control body composed of representatives of all Member States. As a further legal protection body, there will be the European Court of Justice. As I have already done in the Committee on the Interior, I would like to make it quite clear to Austria during its EU Presidency in the second half of 1998 that the powers of control for the European Parliament will also apply to EUROPOL. And I am convinced that we will succeed. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that EUROPOL is a "state in the state", does not create a "glazed person", but is an important tool for preparing and coordinating specific investigations against organised crime. We in Austria too cannot close our eyes before the increase of organized international crime. We can only act jointly at European level against these forms of crime and try to work more closely across borders on the basis of the rule of law. I see this agreement in this sense and ask you to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15830	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15852	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! One thing is unfortunately God's fact: We all have to note that there is increasing international, more unscrupulous organized crime, which restricts our fundamental rights, our freedoms. The Austrian People's Party, with the consent of this draft law and the accession to EUROPOL, is in favour of ensuring fundamental rights. So much so that this quality is once clarified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The European Union rests essentially on three pillars, whose strength is different. The economic and monetary union is fast and concrete, which we also welcome. Common foreign and security policy is gaining in contours. It is certainly also high time to consolidate the third pillar; with Schengen and EUROPOL, cooperation in the field of security and justice policy is taking shape. We need this strengthening to the security of Austria and its citizens, but also the whole Union. The Convention on the establishment of an EU Police Office aims to institutionalize cross-border cooperation, as already stressed today, between all European forces to combat serious forms of international crime. So it's not a simple mistake, it's not a question of arbitraryity, as it was always claimed here. It is not about banality, it is about the criminality which must be organized internationally and which must be offered Paroli. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Article 2 of this Convention explicitly sets out the objectives: It is about improving the performance of the competent authorities of the Member States and their cooperation. Only that can be agreed. The focus is on the fight against cross-border, severe crime, with real indications for this organisational structure. There can truly be no talk of a surveillance state à la George Orwell! A first step towards cooperation with the European police took place in the area of drugs. The corresponding data balance will be extended to the above-mentioned crime fields. While EUROPOL has no operational and executive tasks, it can pool and analyse national findings, draw up progress reports and forward results to the Member States. It is now for Austria that the forces to use EUROPOL's information are to use its system. According to the last report, Mr Federal Minister, Austria has asked for only 75 times in 1996, whereas comparable countries such as Holland and Belgium have used up to 180 times the information and potential of EUROPOL. I think Austria should register more strongly. EUROPOL, ladies and gentlemen, can become a stronger weapon against organised crime and terrorism. The Security Report points out that organised crime has a share of 30 to 35 percent in total crime. And it is also noted that organised crime has unlimited funds, modern technology and also logistics that make profits of more than 100 billion dollars. Once again: worldwide profits over several 100 billion dollars. All citizens pay the price for it. In the long term, the threat is not only material, but truly profound and worrying: The rule of law is threatened and undermined by corruption and subsidisation. Federal Minister! As the threat comes to a large extent from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, it is essential for security in Austria to cooperate with Eastern European countries in this regard. I would ask you to take part in the establishment of an efficient and incorruptible executive and judicial system there. Finally, I can quote the Bavarian Minister of the Interior Beckstein and fully endorse his statement: EUROPOL can only work and become a useful tool against organised crime if international data balance and exchange is carried out without bureaucracy and national fears.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15921	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e15942	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The mention by the Bavarian Minister of the Interior at the conclusion of Mr Murauer's speech was not very reassuring. I think there are tendencies of an overwhelming bureaucracy everywhere, but: A police authority without bureaucracy, without regulated procedures, without possibility of control, that will probably not have been meant. I would therefore like to expressly distance myself from the conclusion of my previous speaker. At all distances to bureaucracy: We can't get through without procedural regulations. Therefore, statements made by ministers of the Interior, it would only be efficient if police authorities could work together at international level without bureaucracy and force majeure, would be a dangerous threat. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] I would, however, like to come to the very point. Mr Lösnak and many others have today outlined the findings of international crime. There seems to be a great deal of agreement in the findings. There is also the basic agreement that criminals must be confronted at the same level that they take place: So if criminals are acting at international level, they must also be confronted at international level. But, I mean, it's not that much about the matter, it's about the like. And there are a few differences of opinion. It is always said that what happens at EUROPOL is not "operative activities". – This is a game of words. If one understands by "operative activity" the concrete intervention of executive officials on the ground, elements such as firearms use or the like, then it may still be acceptable that what is happening here is not actually operational activities. However, if one understands that in an information society, in a society of networked worlds, in a society where immaterial contacts are still running only at the level of networks and data exchange, the actual operational activities, namely the management of operational activities, one cannot be satisfied with the creation of a European system without any accompanying control. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Of course, we Liberals also want the police to cooperate internationally so that they can exchange facts and information. However, it is already the question of which data will be adjusted or exchanged. The weather will probably not be discussed, but rather about hard facts. But are it "hard" or "soft" data when data is collected about the environment, about accompanying persons, about contact persons, about victims and witnesses, and about their special characteristics up to their belonging to organizations: about assumptions, suspicions and "information" from hearing talk? – These are "soft" data. But if international police organizations begin to communicate about "soft" data, the matter will become a little more critical. We probably agree on this, because there may also be the personal preference of the N.N. or the personal espionage of the A.B. to one of these data. It's about prophylaxis, too. We must not restrict ourselves to react only, Mr Platter said: We must already collect forward-looking data, which might be needed later on. – So these are prophylactic data collections, and these data are networked. Hopefully they will be networked, because it is about international cooperation. This will generate new data, as it were. Networking of data means creating data hierachia. All these are very sharp weapons, and that's a kind of operational activity. I ask you: Think in newer terms, in terms of modern communication society! This is already an operational activity. Not only the punching of sheet metal or the arrest of people are operational activities: The development of data hierachia, the maintenance of data and their alignment is also a specific form of operational activity. – All of this is done without any control, and we urge it. This is done without any fundamental protection, without corresponding fundamental rights at European level, without a European catalogue of fundamental rights as a counterpart to EUROPOL at the same level, without enforceable jurisdictions, without any appeals from the ECJ and without any accompanying judicial control, without democratic control and without the removal of law enforcement authorities. The police are finally a law enforcement authority of their own. And this is more a police than a rule of law, and that is why we are concerned, Mr Löschnak. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We already know that the fight against crime must, of course, be done with adequate means, but that does not mean that we can operate by any means. "adequate" means only: at the same level, but not under the responsibility of their own legal principles. That is the fear, and that is not any fear. Something yet Insignificant: Federal Minister Schlögl said that it would require the adoption of new acts. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl talks to the government bank. Madl.]] Unfortunately, Mr Schlögl, Federal Minister, is now busy elsewhere. I would really ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to give your attention briefly from the very important conversation with Mr Madl, because your head of section will not hear what I am now going to tell you. This will, of course, be a member of the apparatus to which it relates, lead interest. But you, Mr Minister, are, as it were, the political officials in the Ministry of the Interior, and you have the responsibility to the House of Ministers – and not your officials! If you think, Mr Federal Minister, that there will be a need for new legislation, you are only right to a certain extent: If the external catalogue of actions is to be extended, new legislation will be needed. But if the inner design of the most powerful of all tools, namely a data hierarchy, a data collection of "soft" data, networked data, you no longer need new acts, because, despite the principle of unanimity in the third pillar, the Republic of Austria has already given its political responsibility. The last word has already been spoken there. Tell me who will control this system: Our domestic executive will control EUROPOL in terms of quality? – Don’t even laugh at yourself! Remember in which computer state your ministry and your entire device are still today! You can't expect anyone here in the house to believe that our very talented, diligent colleagues in the Ministry of the Interior will be able to question the hypernational construction of EUROPOL qualitatively; they will certainly not be able to do so. We have no parliamentary control over EUROPOL, we have no accompanying judicial control, and the law enforcement authorities are also abolished. There is also no possibility of participation by the public prosecutor in this respect. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: But we want them!]] There will be a construction that will be so powerful in itself that it will only laugh at us! Faith You're me! Since I am currently dealing with such information systems in my field of work, I say to you with deep conviction: No, they won't even laugh at us, because they're building their own data castle. – They will stand outside and will no longer be able to enter, because what is actually happening in the internal structures of data processing, ultimately, only very few know that – and not even those who have the responsibility directly in the EUROPOL, actually overlook it. This is where subsystems of people emerge, where the EUROPOL agency cannot even control these subsystems in the sense of service law, let alone that this is done in the judicial sense. That's where the chickens are. They create the dock for international crime. Don't you think that's all right? – They obviously think that only good, noble and decent people work there; that people work there only because they swore an oath of right and order. – These too must be checked! Faith You're telling me: There, such a large capital is being built up, which is a huge bait for international crime. It's very easy to tap data there. You don't need any microfilms and no James Bond with his little camera, but enough data management. All that EUROPOL knows, the others also know. Mr Federal Minister, do you not know that this is the case? Do you think EUROPOL is an unsinkable ship? And all this without judicial control, without democratic control and the abolition of law enforcement authorities! If anyone is concerned about this, then this happens, believe me, not because, as some people think, he is against right and order. In particular, the liberal rule of law lives by the fact that the law comes to its right and that the order is democratically controlled. Law and order are partly misused terms, misused by those who understand police state and abolition of control under law and order. We live on the fact that we comply with the rules of the game, and we live by the fact that we do not possibly give up our own legal principles in the fight against crime itself. That is why we are always one step slower around the famous than the criminals who are not bound by these rules. That's the price of freedom! But that's why the responsibility to deliver it and to push it to the data processors and hope that it's all right, it seems to me, as if someone, when someplace gas comes out, thinks: Nobody's going to pass with a burning cigarette. - That's mellow! It's not about the "glass man." Mr Federal Minister, you think we are afraid that in this case we are dealing with the problem of "glass people": This is already about the skeletal human beings. They drove him down to the skeleton. You can see through the ribs. And you don't know yet! [[Abg. Tichy Writer: Filed!]] Mrs. Tichy-Schreder probably means what I am saying here is too theatrical, but believe You're telling me: That's the real problem! All that is done here would be tolerable if it were to be monitored accompanyingly, but it will not be monitored accompanyingly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Moralinsauer!]] This is not moralinsure, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! If you think that's moralinsauer, then, I must say, I'm sorry, I'm sorry for your party and this republic, too, because You have something to say in this Republic. Someone who thinks that if the liberals are concerned about the rule of law and the fundamental rights, that is moralinsure, I must say: That might be true in your Catholic world, in my world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16044	There is also a speech by Mr Puttinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16066	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The document on the establishment of a European Police Office to be decided today is an important step for a secure Europe and thus for an even safer Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad that this Convention will be adopted by Parliament today, and I hope that the other Signatory States too, as far as it has not yet been, will ratify it as soon as possible. I would like to address the content less now. The planned intensive cooperation between the EU Member States, at least by means of all forms of organised crime, encourages the fight. And that's important! This is more urgent than ever! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a fact – and I just want to list a few examples – that in Austria the share of organised crime is already 30 to 35 percent. The fact is that organised crime in Eastern Europe has taken on a terrifying scale and has seen a tenfold increase since 1990. In 1990, there were 700 organized groups, currently 8 000. 140 of these organisations operate abroad, 70 of them in Germany alone. In Italy, against 478 groups, the Netherlands against 74, Belgium against 84 groups, where 1 200 suspects are also registered. In order to counter these worrying European developments, EUROPOL was created. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== The term "EUROPOL" was first mentioned in Maastricht in December. In 1993, a ministerial agreement was reached on the creation of a EUROPOL Drugs Agency. At the end of 1994 there was an extension of the scope of the mission on radiant material, tow crime, the movement of motor vehicles, money laundering, and in 1996 trade in human beings was also included here. ==References== In March 1995, the EDU, the European Drug Unit, was created. I mean, we're not about creating and supporting an institution that takes all these positions into account for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] EUROPOL has – and you too, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals, not around – no operational tasks like Interpol. This is overlooked by most critics who rise to see EUROPOL as a mixture of FBI and agent 007. Unfortunately, Mr Kier is not present; he has expressed himself in such a way in the "Salzburger Nachrichten". To get up, to call such an institution FBI and 007, I simply find myself repulsive. On the contrary: The competences of the Euro-Cops are currently and in the foreseeable future in no way comparable to those of the national police authorities and not at all with those of the FBI or other such institutions. Data exchange, data backup and non-immediate prosecution are tasks of this police device. There are no racism and persecutions in view, where the EUROPOL specialists call for teleworking. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Information and analysis systems are those positions to be extended as objectives. There are still many legal steps to be taken to finalise EUROPOL. I am thinking of Staff Regulations, Financial Regulations, Headquarters Agreements, Rules of Procedure and many others. However, significant financial investments must also be made. I am convinced that this effort will be worthwhile. A free Europe without border controls calls for its price so that the security of the EU's citizens, including those of the Austrians, can be guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is an international agreement and I can make the following additional request. Additional application of Deputies Dkfm. Dr. Günter Puttinger, Anton Leikamund comrades on the report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (767 of the Supplements) on an Agreement pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the establishment of a European Police Office (EUROPOL Convention) and its Annexes and Declarations; Protocol pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the interpretation of the Convention on the establishment of a European Police Office by the Court of Justice of the European Communities by means of a preliminary ruling and a declaration by the Republic of Austria (984 of the Supplements) The National Council wants to read in second reading according to § 76 para. 3 GMOs shall decide: "In accordance with Art. Paragraph 49 2 B-VG is made known to this work by the fact that its versions are in Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish, with the exception of the declaration by the Republic of Austria, which is only available in German. 2 of the ECJ Protocol – to consult the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16168	The request that Mr Puttinger has just read, on § 76 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report is not desirable. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting on the Committee's request to approve the conclusion of the contract in 767 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The Committee's proposal has been accepted by a majority of its members. I now leave on this request in accordance with § 76 para. 3 to the Rules of Procedure, within the meaning of Rule 49(2). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act, to decide that the present work is to be made known by the fact that its versions in Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish, with the exception of the German-speaking declaration by the Republic of Austria on Article 2 of the ECJ Protocol, are intended to be taken into account in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This request has also been adopted by a majority. 18. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (895 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Communities on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the European Economic Area, of the one part, and the Republic of Hungary, of the other part, of the other part. Agreement signed in Salzburg in October 1992 between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary (987 of the Supplements) 19. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (343 of the Supplements): Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents (982 of the Supplements) 20. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (557 of the Supplements): Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the prevention and mutual assistance of disasters or serious accidents (983 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16253	We now come to points 18 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Achs. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16284	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In a time of dynamic economic and social processes, flexibility in thinking and action is also recommended in the field of security. The development of recent years has shown that, for example in the field of international cooperation, a high level of safety needs to be constantly set new priorities. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this context, the extended push agreement with Hungary represents an essential step towards even more security in our country. As a result of the special arrangements with Hungary with regard to third-country foreigners, there have in practice always been problems in the provision of illegal frontier workers. Because the large number of those people who used Hungary illegally as a transit country were not affected. The agreement signed by Minister of the Interior Karl Schlögl and his Hungarian counterparts will make this situation clear and bring considerable relief into the push practice, since in the future only the illegal crossing of the border is essential for the readmission. This will ensure that, in the future, the deportation of illegal persons can be handled more quickly and efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on the criticism of our coalition partner regarding push agreements, especially on colleagues Paul Kiss. Mr Pauli, it is clear here that neither the Minister of the Interior nor the Head of State can be held responsible for delaying ratification, since international agreements clearly fall within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. To support my claim, I quote the responsible Head of Unit of the Ministry of the Interior, who wrote the following: ==References== In April 1997, the competent Head of Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was asked several times, bearing in mind the previous practice, to give the BfI the appropriate accusations. This concern was not met. – To the extent that it is clear who is responsible for delaying ratification. Ladies and gentlemen! The development of recent years shows that illegal border crossing has become a central issue of security. Since 1991, that is to say, since there has been an increased border guard, some 44 000 illegally displaced persons have been attacked. This is a sign of the good work done jointly by border service, customs and federal army to secure our borders. Since the opening of the eastern borders in the late 1980s, criminal organizations have increasingly benefited from the new freedoms, as has been mentioned today. However, the increased control of external borders and improved cooperation by the Schengen Information System ensure that these new freedoms do not become a free letter to criminal international organisations. In addition to Schengen, it is also important to further develop cooperation with other countries at other levels. For cross-border security thinking must not be limited to institutions alone. It must also be a matter of improving cooperation with our neighbours in particular. The push agreement with Hungary is a good example of how we can handle the situation at our eastern borders in particular. The content of this agreement is also an improvement in police cooperation, and it is only by this that illegal migration can be successfully and efficiently combated. The experience of past years shows that only a common answer can be the right one for the major security issues. A good example of this is also the agreement reached by the Minister of the Interior last week with the Swiss Federal President Koller, or that on 18 November. In June of this year, agreements with Croatia were signed. Austria has already proved in the past, ladies and gentlemen, that it is one of the world's leading countries in the field of security. This is reflected in the low levels of crime and high levels of information we can draw from the safety reports of recent years. We Socialists therefore support the continuation of a clear security policy path. We stand for professional protection of our external borders, for the expansion of technical possibilities and, last but not least, for enhanced international cooperation in all areas of security. Just like that, my own. Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue to provide the highest level of protection and security to people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16346	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16367	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I admit, Mr Achs, that it has been a serious birth until we have come to the decision on the push agreement on illegal border workers between Austria and Hungary today. I also admit that it was part of a political hack between the two coalition parties, mainly between me and the mayor of Burgenland. I agree with what Mr Achs said about the intention of this agreement. Of course, that's what we all want. I also agree that it is good if there is cooperation between neighbouring countries. But my point of departure for criticism was quite different. It was the mayor of Burgenland Karl Stix, who claimed that the Hungarian neighbours were the ones who had delayed the ratification of this push agreement. He said, as it were, that this would be an rude act, this would be something that neighbors in this form were not allowed to do. I was just the one who said: Mr. Landeshuptmann, that's not true! It is not our Hungarian friends who have prevented the decision-making of the ratification of this agreement. No, they've got their job, they've done their homework, colleague Achs. We've been it ourselves, and we haven't done our homework. I have not blamed myself: whether it was the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whether it was the Minister of the Interior Schlögl or Foreign Minister Schüssel. I just said, Such way of assigning to friends and neighbors the blame that has proved to have done their job is not correct and not fair! That's what I criticized, and that's what I'm talking about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is true that we support all that is present in common in this direction. We support the fact that the Minister of the Interior has concluded an agreement with the Hungarian Minister for the Interior Gabor Kuncze. We support the fact that, in addition, our border authorities will be able to take up illegal borders in a legal way, but above all to restore illegal border workers in a form as necessary by the rule of law. What has happened so far, colleague Achs? – The women and men who had to deal with this work in the district authorities did not know yet. In the absence of legal requirements, they were forced to release border workers who were found to have entered our country illegally and to let them wander around in the area of Burgenland, Lower Austria, Vienna or Styria. This is a state nobody wants: No political party in this country wants this, and the citizens in that country also do not want it! This not only leads to the uncertainty of the executive officials, but also, of course, to the population. We reject this, because this is a irrational process, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of Greens) But they already want it!]] Maybe they want it. But I don't put it on them. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I do!]] Maybe. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: And you'll stop it!]] What we have said serves – as well as the multiple call to the Minister of the Interior – to stop this state that is not portable and non-sustainable. Federal Minister! It is time for us to make a real effort in relation to our shelters. It is time for us to plan and build new shelters and the corresponding detention sites. Because it cannot be that the Schubtourism – namely illegal border walkers across Austria: from Tyrol to Burgenland, from Styria to Lower Austria or from Upper Austria to Vienna – becomes the task of the Austrian executive. Indeed, it has other tasks: It has to ensure the maintenance of justice, peace, order and security in the country for our people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So, Mr Federal Minister, this is the invitation, which is the invitation: Let's make the corresponding push places available! At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we took the view that 250 in the number needed to manage the problem, and that this should also be done in a form which could be said: Illegals, too, are people. Illegals also have a right to be accommodated accordingly and in accordance with the formalities – as a result of this agreement, this becomes from 1. January next year be possible – to be postponed. This is the way for the ÖVP to act. Federal Minister! I'm trying to get you to act.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16458	Mrs Partik-Pablé is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16479	Ladies and gentlemen! As early as October 1992, there was an agreement with Hungary on the withdrawal of frontier workers. This agreement has obviously worked more badly than right, because the border officials have repeatedly heard complaints about it – Mr Kiss has also done so – that it was simply not possible to move illegal border workers back across the border. That means Hungary didn't take these people. Minister! I was in Nickelsdorf a week ago. There the officials complained that they had to run and ask for it and that it depended on the Hungarian official's opinion whether he would take back the illegal border workers or not. Some take them back; some do not take them back. That means that the situation was really very unsatisfactory. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In these circumstances, it is particularly objectionable that you yourself - and you have admitted - have delayed ratification. Mr. Achs! There is no need for you to cut out the Minister here, so to speak. The Minister, in any case, always acknowledges everything that is happening in his area of errors. You always believe that you have to defend him and move towards immense actions, and then the Minister himself admits where the mistake is located. I think you have overlooked the fact that this agreement has already been signed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and have therefore not made sure that the parliamentary path is taken. Minister! In this context, I would like to propose a certain degree of laxity to you. Obviously you ignore the problem of illegal border crossings, although you practically read daily in the newspaper that already 10, 20 or 30 illegals have been attacked again. If this problem were really important to you, then it could not happen that you would simply leave this agreement and not pass it on. That is what I would like to make to you, Minister-in-Office of the Council. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Right!]] Unfortunately, I also have to blame you on the agreements that we will conclude on these agenda items, Mr Minister. We today decide to provide generous assistance in the case of accidents and disasters related to Slovenia and Hungary. Minister! These agreements would have really been the ideal reason to talk to Slovenia about nuclear power plants in particular. In my opinion, you should have promised such assistance only if the Slovenians complied with their information obligation on nuclear power plants. It is known that the Krško nuclear power plant poses a great danger to Austria. The Chief of State of Styria has repeatedly affirmed that Slovenia does not fulfil the reporting obligation. No opinions will be passed and contracts concluded with Austria will not be fulfilled. What would be closer to the conclusion of such an agreement, in which Austria promises to take generous aid, to say: At least keep your obligations laid down in a contract! – You did not do that, Mr. Minister! They have also not addressed this issue with Hungary, although there are nuclear power plants in Hungary, which do not have modern safety equipment. There are power plants that are extremely dangerous. It is likely that, after a reactor accident, we will have to intervene on the basis of this aid agreement, only because these countries do not fulfil their obligations under contracts concluded. Minister! We have agreed in committee that we all agree to these agreements. As I looked at this, I really regret this approval. I think you simply can't promise something and promise our services – we're always the generous ones – while the states we're under enormous threat do not even meet minimum contractual obligations. We will agree with Ach and Krach today, but I would ask you, if you conclude such contracts in the future, to also look at what is going on in the other resorts and where you can be useful in Austria. I'm asking you, not just to To think of your place of business and to promise something that is certainly good and very human, but on the other hand leaves a threat to Austria that we do not want to live with.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16529	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16563	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to deal with the agreements with Hungary and Slovenia on mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents. It is very gratifying that these two government documents are already applied in reality. This means that in the past, in the face of disasters or other accidents, cross-border cooperation with the countries of Hungary and Slovenia has worked very well. Of course, this must also be true in the future in the event of nuclear accidents – should such accidents occur – because the obligation to provide information must be safeguarded and safeguarded. Austria has concluded such agreements with almost all its neighbours and has thus gained good experience. With today's novelle, we are putting an improved formal coat on our practice with Hungary and Slovenia. Austria is known as a reliable, good and helpful neighbor. The new Convention provides that travel documents are no longer necessary in the cross-border crossing of auxiliary teams, even when aircraft are used and so on. By facilitating or even removing certain border formalities, aid can be provided more quickly, reliably and effectively in the future. This must not, of course, be a single runway, but must also be so guaranteed from the other side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also important that this constant and close exchange of information between Hungary and Austria, as well as between Slovenia and Austria, works better across national borders, especially in order to prevent such disasters. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, I would like to point out something that I have already said in dealing with the Civil Service Act: I am proud that in Austria we have established a reliable and well-organized rescue and assistance system, which is always operational. In addition to the main professionals, the volunteer staff prove themselves there in a special way. Due to the exemplary use of rescue services, fire brigades and all other forces, a lot of human lives have already been saved and in particular many facts have been saved from even greater damage. The ÖVP acknowledges this. As an example, I would like to mention the flood disaster in this summer. Natural disasters cannot be prevented, but the extent of such disasters can be greatly reduced by timely exchange of information and rapid assistance. That is why I would like to agree to this agreement. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] 21. 21
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16617	The next speaker is Mrs Perfuss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16638	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the agreement between our country and Slovenia on mutual assistance in the event of disasters and accidents. Intergovernmental relations are extremely good, and I have already had the honour of maintaining contacts at political level with colleagues from Slovenia. Especially in border zones, a cross-border contact is something quite common. I was also able to convince myself, Minister of State, that the executives are also very cooperative. I was also told that the equipment of the executive officials on the Slovenian side has a very high standard. This, of course, facilitates work. Slovenia is particularly struggling to achieve a general EU standard so that membership can be done as soon as possible. In my view, this is quite welcome, although I believe that a condition for the border region would be to establish its own EU target area for support programmes. This could also prevent conflicts that could occur in the event of economic disadvantages. I think mutual acceptance is a prerequisite for good cooperation. But I must say, as a member of the border state, that the greatest fears of our people – Mrs Partik-Pablé has already mentioned this – are, of course, the great danger that the Krško nuclear power station represents. The reactor is only 80 kilometres from the Styrian border. The Styrian politicians have already called for an early warning system for possible incidents, and I join this in full. We would not be sufficiently prepared for such disasters in order to avoid damage. You are right, Madam Member, only the Minister of the Interior will not be able to solve the problem alone. An exit from nuclear power generation – as I am entirely with you, we all have to give each other back cover – from our point of view is the only reliable fight against danger, as I would like to accept. However, we also need to recognise this, we must support the partners in their own interests in the best possible way. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] On the other hand, I agree with the statements made by the previous speakers: I also hope that good cooperation with Slovenia will continue, and I hope that as little as possible disaster use will be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16684	The next speaker is Mr Lammer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16706	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Parfuss, I must say Your statement, as you have pointed out here, supports that the problem with the Krško power plant concerns not only the Styrian Members, but also the representatives and the population in the border regions, whether in the Burgenland, Styria or Carinthia. It's true what you said: The Federal Minister will certainly not be able to solve the problem alone. But it is in the Federal Government, and the Federal Government must already be ready to deal with this problem and to solve it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I have a special question on these two agreements. The one agreement – that is the annex 343, printed on 29. October 1996 – in general part of the explanatory notes under the regulatory priorities contains a demonstrative list of the types of operations: Fighting fires, nuclear and chemical hazards and so on. This is the version of the 1996 version. On the other hand, this passage is missing in the almost identical text of the Agreement in 557 of the Supplements to Slovenia. I would like to know why this is so, since there are two similar agreements on and on itself, only that one of these is missing. This is precisely what Mrs Parfuss has mentioned: in the Slovenian area, problems can arise with the Krško power plant – there have already been problems there – and that this part has not been regulated here. There is also an application for a decision by the Steiermärkische Landtage, which has been unanimously adopted and in which the Federal Government is called upon to agree on the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the early exchange of information in the field of radiological hazards and on issues of common interest in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection. Proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. So that's been almost two years ago. Federal Minister! I really do not need to draw your attention to the dangers of the Krško power plant, since they are well known. I would like to ask you to perhaps give an opinion on why there are differences between the two Treaties and why the agreement with Slovenia on the Krško power plant lacks this point.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16748	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have any further speeches on these agenda items. This debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We shall come to the vote, and we will vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement with the Government of the Republic of Hungary on amendments to the Convention on 9 June. Agreements signed in 895 of the Supplements in October 1992 to be approved. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give this approval give a sign of approval. – This is decided – with a vote against. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Internal Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty with the Republic of Hungary on mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents. Individual articles of this State Treaty are constitutional. With due regard to these constitutional provisions, I first place in the sense of § 82 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure state that the necessary quota is given. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who support the conclusion of this State Treaty with Hungary give a sign of approval. . I note that this State Treaty is adopted unanimously, including the two-thirds majority. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the prevention and mutual assistance of disasters or serious accidents. This State Treaty also contains constitutional provisions. Here, too, I put according to § 82 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure state that the quota is given. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this state agreement with Slovenia to demonstrate this by raising the seats. . I note that the State Treaty with Slovenia has been unanimously approved. We have thus dealt with these points on the agenda. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior. 21. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (898 of the Supplements): Extended Value Borders Novelle 1997 – WGN 1997; on amendment 181/A by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Peter Doppelmüller and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Law on the Law of the Law of Law of 1969 and on the application 193/A of Deputies Mag. Terezija Stoisitsand comrades concerning a federal law with which the Law of Law of the Law of Law of 1969 and the Law of 1 January 1969. On 1 August 1895, on the judicial procedure in civil disputes (Civil Rules of Procedure) was amended (1002 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16836	We'll get to the 21st. Agenda item. There is no wish for oral reporting. We are therefore going into the deliberations. The first speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16864	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "Extensive novelle" is a too modest expression of the template to be used here. There's a lot packed in it. One has the impression that one thing or another should be hidden in it, otherwise one would have chosen a more appropriate name. It is not a good law from the point of view of the liberals and above all from my personal point of view. It is a matter of concern from the point of view. This has nothing to do with the design, the legistic formulation or the like, but the tendency inherent in this law cannot really be approved if one comes out of practice. At the heart of the rule is that the appeal of the Supreme Court, i.e. the third instance in civil matters, should be made extraordinarily difficult, that in many less cases than is currently possible, it should be possible to do so in the future – all under the title that the staff are overburdened and that work should be reduced to him. Once again, the basics start: I believe that the judicial system is too delicate a matter for the reason that, because of the fact that officials are overburdened, they simply take away part of the appeal possibilities, they simply reduce individual case law accordingly. If one really has to realize today that in particularly important areas of justice - the Supreme Court is undoubtedly one of these areas - it is too much to do that the individual speakers in the Senate are too many acts, then something else has to be considered. In my opinion, four, five, six, or seven planning places must be added for another Senate, and there will really be no such thing. But I really can't imagine that one is going on in the long run in such a way that, if one has the impression that there are employees who have too much to do, there is simply a lot to reduce the removal of an instance and thus a clear reduction in individual case law. This is a way to go that seems very worrying to me; I repeat it. And this will have a negative impact, ladies and gentlemen, as seen from practice! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In order to become very concrete – I want to save myself and above all tell you the very complicated rules –: All in all, there will be an absolute lower value of 260 000 S for the appeal of the Supreme Court; at present there are 50 000 S. So this is a fivefold increase, you have to imagine! This means, first of all, that this sector will be cleared out. That is to say, at 50,000 s, it was still a dispute which a "normal" citizen experienced sometime; but at 260 000 s, that means that the Supreme Court is, if one formulates it a little "loose", only for the "rich people" in the future. Those who process less because they can't process much because they don't have much and don't have much to get, have no chance to reach the Supreme Court! This not only leads to the fact that those who do not really process for a lot of money remain closed to the third instance, but it also leads to the four Supreme Courts being finalized in all other matters. That means: In Innsbruck, Linz, Graz, Vienna is in the future for most civil processes, if they get there at all, final station. This, of course, leads to a regional differentiation of the case law, which does not appear to be inconceivable either. So not only that one can no longer go up to the OGH, but also that the case law – as is already the case in criminal matters today – will now also develop in civil matters. It has been tried everywhere to convert euro-rightly, i.e. everything has to be divisible by 13. One has clearly overlooked the fact that one must already expect 14 now, because the relation is no longer 1 to 13 but 1 to 13,85 or 13,95 or similar, but so one has also come to the strange 260,000 s as a lower limit. One has completely overlooked that in this way one no longer comes to the Supreme Court in a very important matter, namely everywhere – and this is well known to the politicians – where it is about the complex revocation of an allegation, omission of this claim and publication of the revocation. There has been a maximum limit. I have the impression that some of the gentlemen in the ministry have not really realized that this is the case because I was opposed at the Committee meeting: But that is why, because some of them used to use extortionally high values – a master builder, I can remember, once a journalist "feel down" by complaining with a dispute value of 200 million schilling – the limit of 240 000 s has now been removed, that is, in this sector one will not be able to refer to the Supreme Court in the future. This is extremely unfortunate because it is an important matter. The case law will therefore evolve, according to the Oberlandesgerichtspregengel. I mean, you have to be more careful than is the case at present. This is also evident in the "smaller" area: At present, there is the so-called "bagatell" limit, under which there is virtually no appeal option if one does not consider nullity and incorrect judicial assessment. But where it usually matters – evidence and similar things – there is nothing more, it is already such that one must unfortunately observe often that, if the dispute value is below the limit, the judge often has the impression: I do not have to put forth much effort because there is no way to do anything against the judgment. – That's where you put it on 26 000 s! For a poor devil who has to process so little money, 26 000 S are already very much. In the future, he has no legal remedy at all, no more practical appeals, because the fact that such things are really futility or incorrect legal assessment is extremely rare and extremely unlikely. Those who believe, if they have built in, that in the future, instead of the extraordinary revision which is still quite well functioning, they should apply to the Supreme Court if the judgment is "negative", that the person who has lost should again address the same judge and try to speak to him in the conscience, so to speak: Think about it again; I'm still bringing you arguments, I want to change your mind; so whoever believes that this has any practical meaning has not yet observed the legal life of the inside. If I have been in a civil proceedings today, I have received the written statement of judgment and then file the application to one and the same judge - i.e. a non-ascending appeal - to consider it again, then, depending on the temperament of the judge, it will bring forth cheerfulness or extreme diswill, whether the presumptuousness to submit to him that he may have erred. All in all, it is a discharge from a few members of the judiciary, but taking into account a very massive deterioration in individual case-law. This is not a political problem, but it cannot really be desired in this state, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So to speak, in a growing up, the oral appeals in civil matters are also abolished – although not really invariably, but practically – under the rule that the lawyers would have spoken so little in these negotiations, so that they can completely eliminate it. – It is completely overlooked that the respective Senate presidents have always pointed out clearly that everyone from the Senate knew the act so well and studied it, that you really do not need to make a presentation. But if, after the practical abolition of the first day's statutes, one goes to the abolition of the oral vocational proceedings in civil matters, this means that one is turning away from the path that has led to modern times from the Middle Ages, as the end of the last century of the then Minister of Justice Klein abolished the file procedure of the ancient times and introduced the orality. Ladies and gentlemen! One could deal with this strong convolut from side to side in a similar style. [[The speaker shall examine in his documents:]] Personally, I would like to have it used to say: We must not go along this path. It is not good that we are about to do it, but we must not continue to keep it so that, when judicial staff have the impression that they are overburdened – because they believe it or it really is – we do not try to remedy the situation within the judicial system, but simply reduce the possibility of instance and thus reduce individual case-law. That's a way I'm really sad about. And I don't even see that politically, but: We must all turn to each other against such tendencies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16974	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Fuhrmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e16995	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mr Ofner that those questions that we have discussed in great detail in the Committee on Justice and in discussions between the parties are certainly not party-political. This is rather a question of access to the following problem: In this case, how would we manage to ensure that the people who are subject to the law come in a reasonable manner to their civil rights and reasonable deadlines? – If it is a fact that the Supreme Court is massively overburdened, one can of course go on the road, Mr Ofner has proposed that one still creates a Senate, and perhaps if one comes on after a year or two or more years and takes it to buy that it takes more and more time until someone comes to a judicial judgment, something will be done. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: It takes longer!]] This is a way that is quite legitimate to demand, only: We Socialists do not believe that this is the right way. I recall, for example, the many discussions that we have led to on matters of justice, which have been strongly complained of, that it can be felt even to the point of refusing justice, if a citizen does not come to his judgment for too long: such or so. Therefore, if we are now considering upgrading the second instance and burdening the Supreme Court in such a way that it is in fact only used for "significant legal issues" - I know, Mr Ofner, that you know that, but we have to make it clear to the non-insiders in matters of justice: It is not true that the proper revision is restricted by these novels of values, but it has not yet been available under 50 000 S; now it will not be possible under 52 000 S. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Will there not be any more!]] I'll be right there. Certainly, if we decide what I am going to accept, a so-called extraordinary revision will not be possible if the dispute value is below 260 00 S, and if the Supreme Court or the Court of Justice of the Second Instance – even in a Senate proceedings, in a judgment taken by a judge senate – considers that it is not such a significant legal issue, so that it can, exceptionally, still go to the Supreme Court. The question is whether you think this is right or not. We believe that it is useful to free the Supreme Court of Justice for it to have sufficient time, capacity and intensity to resolve these issues on important legal issues in civil matters, in exceptional cases. I also need to make a correction: The oral appeal proceedings will not be abolished if this law is passed. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: De facto!]] We already have to agree on this in a legal discussion, if the call has now come "de facto". Everyone will, of course, have the right – even after this novel – to apply for an oral appeal, and he will also receive it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! 6 minutes speaking time is very short. . I have put emphasis on clarifying this important issue from the SPÖ's point of view for the protection of human rights. We have packed many other points into these novels. – The red light here shines again. I must therefore come to the end of my remarks. I would just like to say two more words about the fact that we have dealt with two requests, namely those made by my colleague, Mr Doppelmüller and Mr Stoistis, which deal with the cost question segment. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that these applications are simply carried out does not mean that they are considered to be bad, objectionable or similar, but this has the following reason: We know that the Ministry of Justice and the Bar Association, with the Bar Association, will bring a new law firm to the bar in the early summer of next year and an overall revision, an overall innovation on cost law, at the rate of lawyers. It has therefore seemed dangerous to us to take out a sub-area and prejudicate an overall reform of this legal and notarial cost right, because that would make it difficult for the overall reform. Ladies and gentlemen! Another sentence on the questions raised by Mr Ofner – whether this aggravation of the possibilities has been done or not – is that: As for the extraordinary revision, we have considered it right to propose a motion for a resolution from the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, which we want to evaluate whether the way in which the majority has thought was really the right one. We'll look at the results later. If we look to the fact that we were not right about the SPÖ, but rather to the opinion expressed by Mr Ofner, we will have to consider something else for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17068	Mrs Mag. Stoistis. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17090	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Dr. Ofner has now given explanations of his concerns in this extended novelle of values to those who are judicial, legal or legal professionals. I would like to sum up my concerns, which I share most of the time with him, by saying: There is a principle in criminal justice, which means: "In doubt for the defendant." [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But also in the civil process!]] When it comes to the change of value limits, ladies and gentlemen, we should rather say – in accordance with the first principle – that: In any doubt always for the party and for the possibility to raise appeals, in any doubt always for the extension of appeals – and not for their restriction. Federal Minister! This principle does not satisfy the extended novels of value – and therefore ultimately our scepticism and rejection. Mr. Dr. Fuhrmann! They have tried to explain why exactly this model of limitation has been chosen in the extraordinary revision. The argument is the discharge of the Supreme Court. We Greens - Mr Dr. Ofner has also done this - have always asked the question, and I now ask them again why the OGH, which is undoubtedly necessary, is not going another way. This is essentially about the fact that belief in legal certainty is ultimately also important for Austria's economic location. This belief in legal certainty and in the insanity with which procedures are carried out can not always be contained in it only by saying: The burden, the additional burden of the Supreme Court, is very high, so we relieve it and shift it to the nearest body, namely to the courts of second instance, which are to deal with these problems. I therefore have my doubts, because I can see that in a few years, just as massively as one has now raised the call for discharge from the OGH, one will also raise the call for a discharge from the courts of the second instance. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: It's spread to many! You know that!]] This is distributed, but the work must be done by people, namely judges. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: We promised! That must be so now! Before it comes to the Supreme Court, it's already there!]] I wonder why we did not go the way and see how the situation at the Supreme Court actually is and how high the labour burden there is. The burden, you know, Dr. Fuhrmann, as a lawyer is certainly very different between the criminal and civil senates. In this context, to think of a re-translation would have been a way to avoid having to make these regulations, which, as has been said, in doubt mean less legal certainty. I believe that the expectation of the insidiousness of a decision and, above all, the principle of the continuity of a case law is something which is not guaranteed by this contradiction to the Supreme Courts. That is the main reason why we are voting against this novel. In addition, I do not think any of the argument that these changes must be made because of monetary union. – I really don’t know why you want to do this in advance! [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: This is an adjustment to the money value! We've always done that!]] With regard to these adjustments, it would have been possible to wait for a year and a half in which they will still be available and then the actual changeover will take place. Another comment – I have already said this in committee – is: Whenever one deals with legislative instruments, one comes up with any scrutinies, and one of them is the fact that there is a law in Austria that actually bears the term "religion law", which is also amended; namely, in the sense that maximum liability limits are raised, which is justified, necessary and important, but: In this amendment, it was not at all the idea that a "religion law" in a country that will celebrate an important Republic anniversary next year is not necessarily an appropriate term. Federal Minister! Because you missed this opportunity: I expect, as a convinced Republican, that the Ministry of Justice is now seriously concerned about such relicts from our legal system, which are based on states within the meaning of the Empire of the 19th century. ==References====External links== My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One last comment to my own request, which, as it is so beautiful, has been "completed". The issue of divorce and the associated procedural costs is an absolutely virulent problem. Unfortunately, the number of divorces increases, but costs also rise. Most of the disputed divorces are made by lawyers. Minister! I support your efforts, which you have initiated together with the Bar Association Council, to address this problem. These current malaises – I call them so – affect those who divorce when black sheep in the barn finally earn totals of suffering and misery from those affected. No one can be separated from jux and brilliance. Especially those who have to pay such high costs always come to the kiss. I hope that this will result in a serious negotiation next year. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, I believe that the problem of this word-identical request by Mr Doppelmüller and me – not only with lawyers' tariffs – should be taken seriously, but also with regard to court fees. Not only the lawyers earn in maintenance proceedings, but also the courts. If you charge 3 000 S per month, the court fee for this amount is over 6 000 S. That's a really bad relationship. Here we hope for a satisfactory arrangement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17188	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17210	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. This amendment is quite extensive in textual terms, although only a few key areas have been able to stimulate the Committee's minds and preliminary work, and this includes the new regulation on access to the OGH. The other limits of value relating to judicial jurisdiction – the enforcement of judicial decisions, civil and commercial matters, the rules governing other procedural accelerations – were by no means so preoccupied as to allow different positions to be opened here, such as the new regulation to limit the extraordinary revision in such a way that it is only permitted at a dispute limit of more than 260 000 S. Undisputed on all points was that the burden of the OGH reached a limit on the need for action – even more so because extraordinary revisions occur unjustly at 80 percent. That is to say, the OGH is called, and he usually rejects it because of unwarranted recovery request. As a result, however, it is also concluded that 20 percent of these applications, contrary to the Court of Appeal, were very acceptable and were also declared admissible by the Court of First Instance. These 20 percent are currently in about 180 proceedings, which are being cut off in origin – purely theoretically – to the Supreme Court. From my point of view, it is also important that the OGH is not only a judicial appeal body and that legal matters are decided, but also essential tasks with regard to the harmonization of the case law, so that, as it were, the Supreme Courts come to a uniform legal ruling under the umbrella of the OGH. In preparation for this novel, these new measures have been strongly criticised, not only by Mr Ofner and Mrs. Stoisits, but also by the economy and attorneys, which have been massively criticised – not just unilaterally but nevertheless massively mediated – because it is the view that legal protection, access to justice is simply cut off. Mr Vanner's proposal, which has also come from other Members, is to set up an additional Senate and thus share the OGH's full-time work, is also to be considered in international comparison. There is already a highest court with the structure and capacity in Austria, which is not only in the top field, but is the largest court in Europe, as measured by the population. To demand to expand it is perhaps not quite the right way. However, in order to address legitimate interests of law to the same extent as the legitimate wish to grant the OGH of inadmissible complaints, an amendment to the Recursing Court will be allowed in the future. This allows the appeal body to rethink the decision to cut off the extraordinary legal path and to examine the reasons and arguments of the appellant. Assigned: Whether this instrument is proven or to what extent merely insistence decisions are taken, we are already interested as legislators. That is why we have joined the amendment to a resolution and we want to pay particular attention to how this instrument is actually applied. We also want to know in the future whether this poses a threat to the uniform jurisdiction of the Supreme Courts or whether it is maintained. Measures aimed at speeding up proceedings are to be welcomed in principle, but party autonomy in civil proceedings should not be severely restricted by taking decisions. That is why we have not included something that was originally contained in the draft, namely the correct rejection of proof. For the claims for evidence are to be left to the party's autonomy, even if this slows down the procedure. Since I no longer have time, I leave the statements on the new rules of liability to my colleagues. These rules are also a very important part of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17267	Mr Krüger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17288	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter has tried the metaphor of the Supreme Court's "roof" which covers the Supreme Courts, and within this "daught" a uniform case law should then be established or developed. Mrs. Colleague! Look Why don't you put this novel to you? One thing is clear, namely, the 260 000 S limit, and you can turn it and turn it as you want: If the Oberlandesgericht does not want to do so, the Oberlandesgericht will have a dispute of up to 260 000 s. That's perfectly clear. Only more than 260 000 S is guaranteed that the appeal of an extraordinary revision will in any case be brought at least to the Supreme Court. Now, Mr. Dr. Graff, the justice officer of the ÖVP, has spoken in the press of a "judgment only for the rich". [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The former!]] Excuse me, you're right: The former justice officer of the ÖVP, Dr. Graff, has been in the "Presse" of Monday, the 1. In December 1997, it was even said that this civil trial novel means a "judgment only for the rich". – In that respect, I would like to underline the statements made by our Judge Dr. Ofner. Jurisdiction only for the rich, says Dr. Michael Graff. It also considers the restriction on access to be unconstitutional and strongly criticises it. He speaks of a "rejection of law for the ordinary citizen" and the already mentioned legal ruling for the rich. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The motion for a resolution was discussed here, according to which it would be considered how this would develop and whether the Oberlandesgerichts, on the basis of the Court of Justice that no revision was allowed, would react accordingly. You check it, or as it's so beautiful: One evaluates this. This is, I have already called it so in committee, a motion for a resolution of bad conscience. That today the Ministry of Justice is developing... [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: No! A motion for a resolution on responsibility!]] A motion for a resolution from the bad conscience! Mr Fuhrmann! If I look at you, and you say that it is a motion for a resolution of responsibility, and you laugh at it, I know that the honest side, which is undoubtedly present with you, has the upper hand here. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: The Consciousness of Responsibility!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A motion for a resolution from the poor conscience, because one is clear, very, Mr Minister of Justice: Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Justice are specialists who constantly observe the jurisdiction – do not monitor, but observe. That's not a question at all. It is therefore not necessary to make a motion for a resolution which provides that this will be considered. It is true, rather, that this extended novelle of values actually creates a massive restriction of access to the Supreme Court. Now we have increased the pressure down here on the Oberlandesgericht. They try to relieve the Supreme Court of Justice in part. Why this should be necessary, I cannot understand from practice because the Supreme Court really decides relatively quickly. This increased attack is tried to assist the Supreme Courts by saying that they should pronounce whether the revision is declared admissible or not. If it does not consider it admissible, the appellant should have the opportunity to say again: Dear Supreme Court, I do not agree with your statement that the revision should not be allowed. You were wrong, please look at that again. – That, ladies and gentlemen, is really an eye-removing of the special kind! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because we know this from practice, and it is also human understandable: If today a three-directional Senate deals with an appeal and comes to the conclusion that it is not entitled, and if it comes to the conclusion that there is no question of exceptional significance that could allow access to the Supreme Court... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Then there is still the official liability!]] So if the Oberlandesgericht comes to the conclusion that a proper revision is declared inadmissible, then it is a pure eye eraser and directly a plantation to give the adjudicate to the appeal, once again to the Oberlandesgericht – "Please consider this again, you have not looked at it" – and even to burden it with the fact that at the same time a complete revision is to be submitted. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Allow me another call: Is the idea in the administrative court a plantation?]] It is therefore not only a question of why the Oberlandesgericht is wrong, but also of whether the appealer is entitled to a syndicate revision which is, with certainty, rejected or not approved by the Oberlandesgericht. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You don't know that! That must not be!]] Therefore, under 260 000 s the Oberlandesgericht is concluded, and this "dach", my dear colleague, Fekter, is a very, very narrow "sitteldach", and out there are just partial decisions of the four Oberlandesgerichten. – All of this is at the expense of uniformity in the legal statement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to draw attention to the fact that the amendment tabled by the Government's parties, which were still present in the Committee, contains a kind of mogel pack, namely a massive mogel pack. It has therefore been responded to a decision of the Administrative Court, which repealed the provisions on the value-dependence of the entry fee or registration fee of capital companies and the raising decisions of capital companies as EU law. This judicature has not been so out of the malice of the administrative judges, but because the Administrative Court says that there is EU resistance in this respect. The legislator has fallen asleep in this EU directive, and this legal basis leads to thousands of limited liability companies that have been in existence since 1. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But none of these companies expect it to be registered for free!]] But now, in the amendment proposal, there is quite a shame in a provision which, once again, unfortunately enters into force on the basis of the Constitution and the fundamental prohibition of the retroactive effect of a law – which can undoubtedly be related from the point of view of inequality – even if you, Minister of Justice, are They said that – the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery has issued some kind of safety certificate. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But the principle of equality is inappropriate here!]] What we have to say about the constitutional opinions of the Federal Chancellor's Office we know enough. That is why we are standing in front of the Constitutional Court of Justice on a permanent basis, and that is why the Constitutional Court of Justice repeals continuous provisions. I guarantee you: The Private Radio Act will also be repealed in § 10 and in other provisions, despite the safety certificate of the Constitutional Service in the Federal Chancellery. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you agree to this proposal, you also agree to the retroactive entry into force of a law which unlawfully and retroactively charges the individual citizen or the company registered.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17455	The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17476	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This extended value-limits-novelle is initially aimed at adapting the current civil value-limits to current needs, taking into account the development of money and income, as well as the changed economic and social conditions. This is all the more urgent than individual value limits have remained unchanged not only since the last adjustment in 1989, but already since 1983, 1976, even 1970. The adjustments are largely based on the 13 euro factor. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the euro changeover to 1st place. January 2002 can easily be converted to round euro amounts without major internal changes. In particular, the current value limit of 100 000 S to 130 000 S and the value limit of 30 000 S to 52 000 S have been raised from these points of view. In the run-up to this debate, it was criticised that, in this context, the value limit of 30 000 S was raised to 52 000 S, I would like to point out that the 30 000 S value limit has remained unchanged since 1976, which is why, in view of the change in the monetary value of approximately 108 percent, the increase to only 52 000 S is extremely significant. The present novelle value limit is also expanded, like its predecessor, in so far as it makes a number of rules beyond mere value adjustments. In particular, it also includes measures to speed up civil proceedings without undue damage to legal protection. For example, an incentive should be created to refrain from avoidable appeal negotiations without the party – this could be taken from Mr Ofner’s speech – taking the right to do so. The criticised intensification of the pre-exclusion due to abrasion according to § 179 ZPO is also very cautious and formulated completely inconceivable from the point of view of legal protection. One of the most important concerns discussed today in all the contributions of the legislative projects is the proper and necessary discharge of the Supreme Court, which has a human resources and advocacy, as it is in absolute peak in the European comparison with the population. The Supreme Court has repeatedly pointed out that, if its current heavy load is maintained, the quality of the case law to date and the relatively low duration of the proceedings for the future can no longer be guaranteed in international comparison. The approval revision model introduced in 1983 and developed in 1989 has proved successful. This applies in particular to the assessment by the courts of the second instance of whether a legal issue is of significant importance and therefore the conditions for proper appeal to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court of Justice takes about 95 percent of the ordinary remedies authorised by the second instance and thus shares the view that a significant legal issue actually exists. On the other hand, the Supreme On average, 80 per cent of all extraordinary appeals raised were brought back on the ground that a legal question of significant importance was not in fact present. In view of these findings, it has been offered for the discharge of the Supreme Court to reduce its appealability in that area, in which it has already been called unfairly in 80 percent of the extraordinary revisions raised so far, because, as the courts of second instance had already correctly recognized, there is no significant legal question. Therefore, in the field of civil proceedings in the field between 52 000 S and 260 000 S – in addition, there is no change whatsoever in the system of ordinary and extraordinary revision – the statements of the second instance, according to which there was no significant legal question to be decided and therefore no proper appeal is permitted, will in principle be declared binding in the future, so that in such a case the Supreme Court cannot be invoked with an extraordinary revision. It is not true, however, that the parties have no chance of coming to the Supreme Court until 260 000 S, as it has been said today, because they are very likely to reach the OGH via the proper revision. Nor is it true that the rights of withdrawal and omission raised by Mr Ofner cannot be brought to the Supreme Court at all because these claims are covered by 240 000 S or 120 000 S. There, under quotations, "covering" is confused with the assessment of the subject-matter of the proceedings. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You can't raise that!]] You can better assess it, Mr Deputies, of course: If it has a higher value, it's a higher value. The possibility opened up by the party subordinated in the second instance, after such an inadmissibility ruling, to return to the second instance with the application to allow the appeal of the Supreme Court, is by no means mere "eye-eating" or "planting", Mr. Dr. Krüger, but seems to be useful because the party thus for the first time has the opportunity to enter into a dialogue with the second instance in order to determine the admissibility of the appeal of the Supreme Court with the second instance. The fact that in such an application it is not only justified why there is a legal issue of considerable importance, but also the proper revision must be carried out at the same time, is in line with the system already in force for the extraordinary revision and prevents procedural delays. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Another Senate deals with this, but not the same!]] Their objection that the second instance would hardly differ from the once stated opinion that the revision was inadmissible is contrary to the fact that the applicants' arguments are certainly particularly carefully and carefully examined, and that, as you claim, they will not be rejected from the outset, but the courts of the second instance – contrary to the Supreme Court – are subject to the question of the right to be resolved by them in the future of the right to review. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Please!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Ministry of Justice will closely monitor – motion for a resolution yes or no – the experience of this model in the light of Parliament's intended wishes. If this model proves to be as we expect, an extension will also be considered on the labour and social courts. A word about the so-called retroactive salvaging of company book fees: The directives – you know that – do not require that the registrations of capital companies or capital increases are free of charge. They must not be value-dependent, but must be effort-based. Now the High House has with effectiveness from 1st century to 1st century. In October of this year, a new regime for company book entries providing for effort-related fixed fees. In the context of this novelle, the aim is to clarify that these charges are also applicable to entries prior to the 1st century. The Court of First Instance took the view that the Court of First Instance had failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 107(1) of the Treaty. If, in the case of a particular case, the rate of fees to be paid in accordance with the old legal situation is lower, only that lower rate of fees should apply. It is therefore by no means a retroactive introduction of a fee obligation, but only a clarification of where appropriateness is given in the cost-related remuneration and where not. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: A failure to understand the administrative court!]] No – or you can also say: He could have appealed to the European Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling, which he did not do. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the genetic engineering liability application to be expected, as I hear it. The adaptations made in the present Novelle value-limits to the law, which is still called the "Reichshaftpflichtgesetz", and some other laws, bring with it substantial improvements in the interests of the injured. Further new arrangements are already planned. In this context, I refer to the draft of a genetic engineering law, which is currently under discussion, and to the debate on the redesign of nuclear liability. To draft a genetic engineering law, I would just like to say so much: Before the summer of this year, the Federal Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft discussion for a genetic engineering law which provides for indebtedness-independent liability for damage from activities involving genetically modified organisms. This draft was discussed in detail in a working group set up by the Federal Ministry of Justice, the representatives of the relevant departments and all interested parties, and modified in numerous points due to the results of the consultation. Following further discussions and modifications, a ministerial draft will be created on this basis and will be forwarded to the review process at the end of January. I assume that in April of next year we will be able to submit to the Council of Ministers a proposal for a government proposal, so that we hope to be able to comply with the time frame set out in this motion for a resolution. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17561	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17582	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In this contemplative debate, I should like to relativize the question whether the amended regulation will actually give rise to a legal circumcision when the Supreme Court is called into question. I am not quite sure whether the question of the rule of law can in fact only be defined by means of a move and by the fact that there must be three instances. Mr Krüger! I acknowledge that I am also not very happy that this is defined by a value. But I think that, in principle, one has to deal with whether it really has to be so that in principle a large number of decisions have to come to the Supreme Court, because one simply and simply believes that supreme courts cannot solve this. I agree, however, that this new regulation must certainly include a certain transformation of consciousness. This expected transformation of consciousness means that that works what you spoke about earlier: It is not simply human, because it is inconceivable that a Supreme Court Senate, after having decided in one case, decides differently on a new submission of this document. I think it should also be assumed that it can be quite possible and possible to expect, in the context of a dispute before a court of the last instance, that there can also be an input to arguments which can lead to a change in this attitude, not only because there is still the official liability there, but also because one can assume that these final decisions will, of course, be published accordingly and will also be the subject of scientific discussion. I therefore think it is necessary to assume that this new complex, this new regulation in itself, is a completely new model which represents a new challenge for all concerned. I believe that it is justified in this light to say, on the one hand, that this is to be done, because I think it will be possible to take this into account in the case of the Supreme Courts, and on the other hand legitimately to make a motion for a resolution here and to say: Let's see if it's actually going to be that way. This is not the expression of a bad conscience, but it is simply the change to a new system. I think that we must make ourselves aware of this: a change to a completely new system, and it should be checked whether it actually comes as we imagine it to be. I think that the unhindered extension of Senates to the OGH is certainly not the crucial point to be pursued. A word on domestic jurisdiction, which has not yet been mentioned: As opposed to earlier, we now no longer need a domestic relationship due to the value-border novelle. Domestic jurisdiction can also be assumed if there is local jurisdiction alone in Austria and if there is an agreement of a court after 104 JN also in Austria. This eliminates a great deal of uncertainty that has occurred in the past, particularly in international relations. I think that a decisive step has also been taken in the right direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17628	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Schwimmer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17649	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "Then it will take a little longer" said Mr Ofner in an interlocutory call to Mr Fuhrmann and did not mean the duration of today's debate, but the following: If one does not take the measures to be decided, but leaves it to the old, then the proceedings at the Supreme Court will take a little longer. . I say that is quite a point of view that can be discussed. Legal certainty has several conditions, and they can be competitive with one another. They depend on many conditions in justice. Access to the right, even to the appeal – I am quite right to give the members of the opposition – is to be considered. But at least as important – even if I do not want to evaluate this at all now – is the quality of the case law, and for most of the parties it is certainly also the duration: how long it takes to get to its right or to learn that you are not right. This can be done in areas above and below the value limit. It can be of crucial importance to legal certainty – I think that experienced lawyers know that – when the procedure becomes almost uninteresting for clients because it has taken so long. There is now a way to link up a certain hope of being responsibly perceived and functioning. Up to now, 80 percent of unauthorised extraordinary remedies have been unsuccessful, but 20 percent have been successful. But colleague Krüger also knows: Those who have complained about it and are introduced must immediately present a complete, expensive revision – so far, it had to be a written revision for the 80 percent unsuccessful extraordinary remedies. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: She had a certain chance!]] It was in vain, Mr Krüger, but not in vain. She was not for the Hugo; she was perhaps for Michael. I want to leave what I mean now. I mean, it certainly wasn't for nothing, but it was an expensive thing and maybe an expensive illusion. They say he has had the opportunity, but in part he has given himself to illusion, the Supreme will throw it over again – and to 80 percent he has not done so. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: In 20 percent he was successful!]] In 20 percent he's been successful – yes, Mr. Ofner, you're right, and now it comes: We think it'll work better. - But the opposition says no. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Faith does not mean knowing!]] Yeah, right. Faith doesn't mean knowing, colleague Moser. My name is not Kier, who knows everything better in the past, who speaks ten times a day and knows everything very well on every subject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it will work better. I don't know. The opposition says it's gonna work worse. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: 20 percent have been won!]] Okay, colleague Krüger: They say it'll work worse, and the Supreme Courts won't allow it. We from the majority of governments take opposition criticism very seriously and say: We want to evaluate this, we want to know exactly what it looks like in two years. But Mr Krüger calls this a motion for a resolution of the "bad conscience". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] This is a motion for a resolution by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, a motion for a resolution of special caution. – But you have spoken of "eye-eating" and that is why I would like to stress once again: We Members of the Government Party have tabled a motion for a resolution of special caution, and we want to know exactly what it is. We hope that these measures will lead to greater legal certainty, and we therefore agree with this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17755	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17776	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I regret the fact that today's debate is being held under the heading: How to get to the Supreme Court? – I mean – Mr Jarolim has already made this clear – it is not about how to get to the Supreme Court, but it is simply about how workers and consumers get to their right. In my opinion, access to the law is not eroded by restrictions on admission to the Supreme Court, but by the sometimes enormous costs of the process. In discussions in the Chamber of Labour, we experience that, regardless of the system of procedural assistance, those people who are not granted procedural assistance in certain matters already have no access to the right because, in case of serious information from lawyers, legal advisers, the discussed process cost risk already deters. A compensation process due to a medical error will shortly cause procedural costs of 300 000 S to 500 000 S in case of a corresponding dispute. The same applies, for example, to conflicts in construction matters. I therefore think that it is necessary to consider the fact that not only is the risk of process costs, in the small sector, a dominant deterrence for the right-looking citizen. We will therefore have to think about how we can expand the primitive comparison or come to new insights in the field of arbitration bodies and arbitration. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: In the AK!]] Therefore, the image of the well-informed, legal, disputed consumer, who is also financially strong enough to lead a civil process to clarify uncertain claims, remains within further circles of the population fiction. However, I should also like to highlight something positive, namely the regulations in the Labour and Social Court Act, which concern the fact that workers are at last receiving late payment of saved wages. In recent years, ladies and gentlemen, industrial court proceedings have been misused by entrepreneurs to support their commitments to workers. The new regulation now leads to a clear default rate scheme for workers. Finally, I should like to say the following: This value-limits-novelle 1997 does not limit access to justice. However, we must continue to consider how we will develop our legal system in the next few years in order to meet international needs in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17818	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17839	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krüger, I believe that the Members of this House no longer want to look into the text of the law today, but many are already looking at the clock. I would therefore like to try to bring in a few thoughts in the very short term. This value-limits-novelle is intended to produce timely value-limits. However, it also takes into account future developments by taking into account today's expected introduction of the euro and setting values accordingly. This is particularly attractive in terms of the jurisdiction of the district courts, where the border has been increased from 100 000 S to 130 000 S. In contrast to President Klingler, I very much welcome the appreciation of the district courts, an appreciation that was always my concern. And if the equipment of the district courts – as President Klingler says – is not appropriate, that must be adjusted. In the interests of the economy, but also of many applicants, we would have liked to see the ÖVP adapting the limit to this value to the law enforcement, but probably there will also be a similar argument to that of access to the Supreme Court. A number of provisions concern the streamlining of the procedure. I mean, the new provision for the application of appeal is also covered by this category, because it is probably more reasonable to have a protocol available and then to decide whether an appeal is filed or not. It is, however, primarily the Minister of Justice and the judicial administration that it is necessary to ensure that this objective can be met by not too long periods of writing. We from the ÖVP also acknowledge, Mr Maier, that there is an increase in the interest rate of remuneration in those cases where the debtor does not make a payment for an evil purpose and for no reason. However, we could not have accepted the conversion of the burden of proof, because we do not want to assume from the outset that benefits will only be reserved to achieve interest income and asset benefits. Rather, there are often reasonable legal views behind maintaining a relationship which is to be clarified in the course of the social court proceedings. In total, ladies and gentlemen, not only does this novel bring the value limits applicable in the judicial procedure to the present day, but it also includes essential approaches to streamlining and thus shortening civil justice procedures. It will now be up to the courts to use these new opportunities in the sense of a customer-oriented judicial administration.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17887	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17909	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, my enthusiasm for this item on the agenda is limited, after my proposal, which I have been trying to deal with for the third time since 1963, has not been completed. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Ours too!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 1993! That would be 34 years!]] ==References== Sorry! But very attentively, Mr Commissioner, very attentively! I'm very brave. My political planning for this House runs for about the year 2003, so ten years would be a manageable framework. I am optimistic, as Mrs Stoisits said, according to the Minister of Justice, my group leader in the Justice Committee and my clubman, that there is really something going on, as the Bar Association has already set up a working group to consider its collective situation in general. It may also come about – and I hope or will fight for it – that in the case of maintenance demands not twelve times three, but perhaps only twelve. I am convinced that in the discussions that will take place next year, particularly the representatives of the "small, simple" man – I am thinking, for example, of my colleague Krüger – will make a great effort to get reasonable, new lawyers' tariffs, so that the simple, "small" people will actually be helped and it is not the same as in some divorce processes that some people are faced with nothing. I am very much building on Mr Krüger, but also on Mr Ofner, who may be working together or not with their experience. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] We will hopefully achieve reasonable solutions in the sense of the "small", "simple" people.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17965	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e17987	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Novelle values also contains significant changes in the liability area. The maximum liability limits are currently located at the lower limit, so a mere inflation adjustment would certainly have been unsatisfactory. Therefore, the Railway Liability Act has been adapted to the other rules on liability: The victims of a railway accident are now entitled to annual pension entitlements up to a maximum of 260 000 S. The nuclear liability limit has also been significantly increased, ranging from 500 million schilling to 1.5 billion schilling. This will cover the potential damage potential of the nuclear power plants still in operation in Austria as well as the transport of radioactive materials. In the context of the Special Committee on the Treatment of Genetic Engineering People's Desire in the course of the discussions on the release of genetically modified plants, the resolution of the liability issue in the field of genetic engineering by all Members is now considered particularly urgent. I therefore allow myself to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I should like to ask you, Mr Minister, to comply very warmly with this motion for a resolution, because it would be necessary, precisely as regards releases, to create legal regulations and legal certainty for all concerned very quickly. This deadline could enable us to make the appropriate arrangements here in the House before the summer.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18048	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. No further words are available. The debate is closed. We therefore come to the votes and I ask you to take the places. We shall first vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1002 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill in 1002 of the Supplements, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should also like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law at third reading give a sign of this. – The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1002 of the Supplements. I should like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give an indication of this. The resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 98.) There is also the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat and comrades on genetic engineering liability. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution give a sign in this regard. – This is also decided by a majority. (E 99.) 22. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (883 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Copyright Act (Copyright Law 1997 – UrhG-Nov 1997) (1001 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18130	We're coming to the 22nd. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. First speaker is Mr Morak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18158	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of teaching cassettes, we have to deal with distributions among the creative ones, among the film owners. These include directing, cutting, camera, architect, costumes and producers, in shares of 50 percent each. Granted, the division among the creatives is open when the actors want to enter the field of creatives. The status of copyright lies below the European standard. In Hungary, Italy, Germany, the Scandinavian countries, Belgium and Holland, these claims are governed by law. In the field of music, it is clear to us that the copyrights of the performers in the LSG are also billed and paid for. In the field of film, there is a lack of long-standing equality between words and music interpreters. A legal template is in preparation. She is supposed to go into review, and after numerous conversations I have had with actors, the actors in this area will not fail. Comforts are more than not appropriate, ORF to or from. The same applies to the rights of the actors in cable utilization. I would like to say a few things about the exhibition right. Mr Krüger is certainly right that this is a complex issue. It is too complex, he says, for the Committee on Culture. This may be a presumption that can also be true. It is certain that the Committee on Justice has not boasted in this area. If you listen to the copyright expert, you can see that this draft law contains a certain imagination. Invented means: It's the worst thing you can say about a law. Most often, if you talk to copyrightists, they start with their 1936 Judicture and talk about the indirect activities of a spa chapel playing free of charge in the park. The whole thing ends with the statement by Dr. Walter, who, from the provisions of § 16b, about which it is here, also intends to prove copyright claims in theatres – from the Burgtheater to the Kellertheater – from costume and stage image. That it was originally intentioned that some small institutes should carry out copyright funds, such as the Ferdinandeum or the Kunstforum, does not seem to be true in the determination of Dr. Walter. When I think that the museums are about to go into justice, I mean that there will be very interesting processes in this regard. Numbers will certainly have to be the authors, the theatre and the exhibition halls. We of the People's Party very skeptical of this § 16b, and we will also comment on this in the Committee on Culture. We believe that there should certainly be no criminal tax on modern art. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18209	Mrs Hlavac. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18230	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words about this draft government, because it primarily implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the legal protection of databases. To date, databases have already been protected by the Copyright Act and the Berne Convention. The directive therefore makes only minor changes and clarifications, and this was completely undisputed in the Committee. The discussion on copyright, which was quite controversial, has in fact affected other questions, namely the issue of the right of exhibition and the rights of remuneration for film actors. These are two topics which are of fundamental importance in particular cultural policy. We from the SPÖ also considered that they should therefore be temporarily reduced and then, after a discussion of the cultural politicians, dealt with again. There has actually been agreement on this, but there has been an amendment which we have not been able to agree with, because we believe it is necessary to clarify these fundamental issues once on the part of cultural policy and then to re-examine them in the Committee on Justice. I admit that these questions have been pushed back and forth for quite a long time, and I therefore believe that it is necessary to come to a solution soon. Another novel to the Copyright Act is already being worked on, as it is a legal area in which there are constant changes in which constant adaptations to technical development must be made to developments in communication techniques. I therefore believe that it will be possible, in agreement with the cultural speakers, to reach a solution which takes account of the interests of all concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18271	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18292	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Hlavac argued that the implementation of the EU Directive on the protection of databases in the Committee was indisputable. The debate – and I mean the vote – is of greater interest because it is a matter of helping film actors to strengthen their rights to benefit from their work. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already tabled an amendment to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This was an application prepared by the representatives of the actors' interests, which can be quite criticised in terms of what the formal design is about. We have therefore allowed ourselves to prepare for the plenary a request which corresponds to the formulation of the Ministry of Justice in relation to one and which I assume has been made with care. You can show the flag today. It's a nail sample, also for my colleague Cap. Mr. Cap, tell me now whether you're acting for the film actors: yes or no? If you are acting for the artists – you say you are acting for the artists – you have to vote in favour of this amendment today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same applies to Mr Morak. If he works for his colleagues in the film, he must vote in favour of this amendment. Because the following is clear: This amendment not only strengthens stage actors in their legal position – one can discuss whether they have had a better legal position so far – but also, above all, the film actors. I am really excited, Mr Cap, for what reasons As a cultural speaker of the SPÖ, you face the film actors and say: Well, unfortunately, it was nothing, unfortunately we cannot agree! [[Abg. May. Stadler: There is still time! Time enough!]] Mr Cap! Please speak to this item on the agenda! They're known for making bock jumps anyway. Perhaps you will overcome yourself, agree to this request and do something for the film actors! Do something for those who create culture! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have to tell you a Bonmot on this occasion. There was a recent discussion at the association of visual artists. There it was about the recognition of sponsoring expenses for visual art. See, all of them were for it; suddenly, too, Mr Cap. Imagine that! Mr Cap, who has repeatedly acted against art sponsorship by the private sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] All of a sudden, he was for it! But what hits the barrel is: In an interview with the press, Mr Cap has the forehead to say that he has always been for art sponsorship and the liberals have now jumped on this train. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Mr Cap! Hiemite you really lost the last quest of trustworthiness. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is the Politchamäleon Roman one!]] Their credibility, I think, has been completely lost. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I now come to the reading of the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: How much Euro does that cost? Who pays that?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The costs will rise enormously! That's absurd!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I am only concerned, Mr Cap, with which you will be faced with Mrs Michaela Rosen, for example, or with other exponents of the film industry and the filmmakers. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Who is the cost? – The viewers pay the costs!]] You will need increased explanation if you refuse to improve the situation of artists and filmmakers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18446	The amendment is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Stoisits. The remaining speaking time of the Green Group is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18470	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We will, of course, vote for this amendment to the Copyright Act by the Greens, because it is the implementation of an EU directive. Of course, we have nothing against it either. Ladies and gentlemen! But what Dr. Krüger, to whom you did not pay too much attention, has a very serious background here. In 1994 – if one or the other remembers it – there was a copyright law novelle. In 1996, there was another one, and in 1997 there was one again. The concern of the Austrian film actors and film actors is not new. It has already been given to us the two previous times, and we have been asked to clarify this law. This time, it seemed, the association of Austrian film actors and film actors would prevail because all the judicial speakers were on their side, both Mrs. Dr. Fekter and Dr. Fuhrmann. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's an absurd idea!]] – But here, there were letters from the Audiovisual Media Collection Society, from the Association of Austrian Film and Video Producers – that all smells of money – and from the ORF, and one has immediately been removed from the pledges given. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Lobbies!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Thank God! Right! You're just for your lobby!]] This is what bothers me, ladies and gentlemen, because this is the very line in which a small group of Austrian citizens, namely the film actors who do not have such a well-organized, valid lobby as the three associations mentioned, are simply ignored. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: It's the audience!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] I believe that what was promised in the Committee and in the preliminary discussions must not be passed and that these legitimate demands must be implemented in a legally compatible form. I don't care, Mr. Dr. Fuhrmann, how to do it, but I think the claims they have – Ministerate Auer of the Ministry of Justice has confirmed this – seem to me to be entitled. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Completely wrong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: No!]] This demand must also be heard from you. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to tell you that I was disturbed by the fact that, in this case, not on a call, but on a "brief" – it was so violent that you ignored the legitimate interventions that were presented orally – which must be effective for actors. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We are the spectators!]] I hope this novel in spring, and I also hope that in the context of the unsatisfying...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18584	Please put to the conclusion, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18606	...Regulation of the exhibition fee proposals made by Mr. Dr. Cap, among others, are seriously discussed and implemented at the next novel.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18636	There are no more words. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 883 of the supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Krüger. I shall first vote on this request by Krüger for the insertion of a Z 1a and then on the rest of the draft law. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the additional request for the insertion of a new Z 1a in Article I and the insertion of a new paragraph. 4 refers. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – This was unanimously decided at second reading. We come to the third reading at the same time. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval at third reading to the submission to give a sign. – The proposal was also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00104_d7e18697	I am still announcing that the self-employed have received requests from 652/A to 656/A and from 3416/J to 3429/J. I call the next meeting of the National Council for tomorrow, 12. ==References====External links== The agenda has been distributed in writing. No objections were raised. This meeting will be started at Question Time. The sitting is closed.
