ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e5995	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The official protocols of 109. ==References== ==References====External links== Meeting of 16 March 1990 ==References====External links==* Official website As prevented, MEPs are reported to be Gessl-Ranftl, Mag. Johann Maier, Donabauer, Großruck and Mag. Jarmer. [[09:06:13]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6032	The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a communication that Mr Magistrate. Wilhelm Molterer forsook his mandate and, in his place, was appointed to the National Council by Mrs. Maria Rauch-Kallat. Since the vote is already in place – ladies and gentlemen, I could ask for a little more peace! – and the latter is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask Mrs Franz for the reading of the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6071	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6095	I welcome you very warmly in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I announce that this meeting will be held live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from TW1 to the end of the meeting. [[09:07:29]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6128	We'll be up to date. Hour with the theme: “Modern, service-oriented, economical – perspectives for the public service” First of all, Mr. Dr. Kräube has been reported. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6157	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the plenary room, in the gallery and also at home on TV screens! Today, our Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek will present a very modern, innovative and forward-looking concept for public administration. This is a huge opportunity for the public service. You'll be able to convince yourself. On the other hand, Ladies and gentlemen, would like to clear up with the standstill and the standstill speech, which is being spread here and there in Austria. I have no doubt that this is supposed to be a bit of an attempt at counter-communication against the issue of distribution justice. I'm going to take a five-fold counter-proof. First: Standstill in the fight against crisis. – The Federal Government has responded quickly, competently and successfully with regard to the fight against crisis, created economic packages, stimulated consumption, supported the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, is it a standstill to go through the number one issue in Europe in terms of unemployment? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Or is it a standstill if one has a dynamic economic growth when Austria is second behind Germany in terms of its competitiveness? It's quite interesting, by the way. Commission President Barroso has these days – it was in the Council on 23 and 24. June – a very interesting statistics presented. The intrusion compared to Germany has just occurred in the black and blue time. And I can tell you, Barroso is not a Social Democratic official with God. The triple-A is also maintained. That is to say, in the management of economic policy, economic policy, there is the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, acting exemplaryly, and there can be no talk of a standstill at all. A second evidence against the alleged standstill: Well, let's take a look at the federal states. Is the standstill or reform when you look into the Styria? For example, Franz Voves and Hermann Schützenhofer with their reform agenda – a groundbreaking concept that includes both politics and administration and community structures. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Grosz]] [[Calls.]] A reduction in politics, in the government, a reduction in the country's day, but also a great number of reforms in the country's administration, to the district authorities and municipalities. That can really be seen. [[Abg. Grosz: Let's finally halve the National Council!]] [[Further calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Or whoever yesterday saw and heard the Chief of State Burgstaller on the “Report” programme in the ORF, which is now the chairman of the national conference, has seen that now – after the presidency of Lower Austria and Upper Austria – a real fresh wind is blowing. And it is also willing to abandon competence at national level, for example in the technical field or in the field of boy protection. I add that we have nine fisheries laws in Austria. Gabi Burgstaller has also made very good proposals as regards distribution justice in our country and how to support the communities in their illegitimate financial situation. However, what is striking is that SPÖ heads of state primarily specify the pace of reform. However, I am fair enough, ladies and gentlemen, to recognise the performance of Mr Dörfler. That's where we've stopped for decades. Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann correctly recognized the time window, commissioned State Secretary Josef Ostermayer to implement it, which made the grandiose. However, I would like to add that also Landeshuptmann deputy Peter Kaiser has his merits, who in the background has contributed a lot to this solution that we decide today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I look at the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, also head of state Sausgruber, that must be mentioned, at least the blockade has given up on the care fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] So there's certainly still air up there as far as the reformanimo is concerned. But anyway, that too is acknowledged. A third counter-proof against the standstill: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we too have spectacular successes here in federal politics. For example, if you reduce from 303 care funds to 8 jobs, this is a remarkable reform. Or the community cooperation that will be possible in the future. There was the Federal Council of Impulsers, and in the future, one will be able to work together across borders in municipalities, not only in private administration, but also in the so-called Highness Administration. Not to mention the health insurance companies: The debt could be halved, and we expect a positive result in this area in 2011. Is it a standstill when OECD Austria confirms that it has best cut off among all industrialized countries in terms of efficiency in public administration? Ladies and gentlemen, literally: No other industrialized country has managed as well as Austria to reduce public service. Because then the standstill speakers from BZÖ and FPÖ will also come out here: Well, how is the balance from this time of government? – Destruction! Wearing! Speculation! High unemployment despite the best economic conditions! ÖBB, BUWOG, Austria Tobacco and Hypo! – The list is long. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I am thinking of your pitiful party in Graz. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They want to go back to Schilling. This is a special chuzpe, because in the hypo disaster you have caused, it would have meant that the Republic of Austria would have been liable for 300 billion schilling. Don't be angry with me. That would have meant bankruptcy for Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mr Strache is always philosophyd by an EU exit, then that is simple! Is it not clear to Mr Strache that more than 70 percent of Austria's trade volume is taking place with the EU? It's incredible! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Or the staff offer: Mr Scheuch is not supposed to be on the government bank, he's sitting on the court today. Or if you propose Mrs Rosenkranz with her problems with the Prohibition Act as a minister or Mr Stefan: Whenever Germany wins football, he is pleased that the German nationals have won. So please, don’t be evil, stay with us in terms of content and personnel with your ideas of the body! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a fourth counter-proof against the standstill is the offensive of the Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek, who sets out very clear goals and the method of implementing seven theses for a real revolution in the public sector and a dialogue concept. I only take the example of Pragmatization, ladies and gentlemen. Once and for all, it will be clear: Pragmatizations with the executive, financial auditors, judges and prosecutors – and that was it! [[Abg. Newborn: And ministerial drivers! Secretaries!]] – And thus, of course, the public service becomes more flexible, modern, economical and economical. But there is also a lot about technology. As you can see, effective methods are scientifically accompanied, supported by research in terms of administrative management – ultimately also a huge chance to significantly improve the image of public administration. All will be involved, the federal states, the local authorities, the parties, the personnel representatives, science, research. The media will hopefully accompany this process constructively. Many standstill speakers may also become reformers and are happy to contribute constructively. Ladies and gentlemen, a fifth counter-proof against the standstill is to be seen in terms of social policy. We are discussing very intensive distribution justice in Austria, and I am very glad that our President, at the press hour, has announced a competition for ideas. How to make Austria fairer? How to improve social balance? Undisputed – of course also from the ÖVP – is the difference between the poor and the rich in our country. There are around 37 000 millionaires and 300 people in Austria who call more than 100 million dollars their property. This can be taxed more strongly to relieve the middle class on the other hand, the house builders, the service providers, who carry out their services every day. Those who sit with the laptop in the Caribbean, watch the stock exchange courses and then press Enter to clear somewhere, these are not the providers, my dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore say: Stop talking about the standstill and get off! All those who still proclaim this in the future will ask: What's your performance? Everyone is invited and everyone should contribute to making our Austria a bit fairer and a bit more modern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6285	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has now referred to an introductory opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6306	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Compared with 33 OECD countries, it is very good to be rated as very economical, what the public administration is doing well, that is also important, but this should not mean that we do not want to develop public service further. The question that arises is: Who are the people behind it who work in the public service, in the federal government, in the nine federal states, in the 2 357 municipalities and other local authorities? – These are highly motivated employees who provide daily service to the citizen. But we want to keep thinking, we want to present a public service for the future, which operates modern, service-oriented and economical. And I think it is very important to stress that many experts, but also you, ladies and gentlemen, are invited to feel this dialogue together with me. REN. This is about almost 350 000 people who work for the Austrian population and whose jobs need to be developed and thought forward so that, as a public service service, we can remain an attractive employer now and in the future and in competition with the private sector in the narrowing of the labour market that is going to happen to us. And when the economic crisis has just been addressed, I do not think anyone – no citizen/citizen – has ever questioned our well-functioning social state, our social state with the state education system, with public health and with the state infrastructure available to citizens. There are people who are responsible for internal and external security, who are responsible for education, for children, or for people who come to the hospital. But the public service needs to develop further. We want to use our employees exactly where they are needed. However, we want and must give them the opportunity to be able to change very flexibly within the public service, perhaps even once in the private sector or back in the public service. It is precisely these parameters, precisely these proposals, that are now before you, ladies and gentlemen. Today, the first good opportunity – thank you for this – is to start this dialogue very constructively. Perhaps a brief example of how the public service works, how modern we are today and what we want to further develop. Take, for example, a computer specialist who wants to teach in the public service. From home, she can easily and easily look at which teaching places are free in the public service and decide what she is interested in. It is then invited to a discussion and if it is started, the recording process is also electronically supported. That is, there are many reliefs for those people in the public service who have to do with the recruitment of staff. The computer specialist from our example then works with us and can of course teach with Matura. Public service has been a pioneer here, and now it is so that thousands of young people who make a teaching can also accompany the Matura. After a few years, this young woman gets pregnant. The public service is also so flexible when it comes to re-entry into working life that we can offer qualified part-time as long as necessary, so that we write teleworking very large, that we offer very flexible working time models and thus we simply maintain our attractiveness as a service provider. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, our employees can constantly continue to train themselves – for example in the Federal Administrative Academy, but other possibilities are open. I believe it is important that we as a public service ensure that not early retirement is the only solution, but that we can still support our employees, our colleagues and colleagues in old age. In other words, a change of place must be possible, and if an activity has become too laborious and too difficult, it must be possible to engage in another activity and not be retired. The opposite question that arises is: What do the citizens have of our service-oriented, fast, modern and also economical activities? I'm allowed Just mention an example that always impresses me again and again: On the information platform “help.gv.at” there are 31 million accesses per year. If you were to convert that – that's the impressive – then that would be called, put on an office: 200 switches open 24 hours a day for a year. That means that citizens get information quickly, but on the other hand they also save their way to the office. That is, I think, something that is particularly important. It is true that saving yourself from official channels means, of course, savings for taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another example: In many courts it is already possible to use everything in one day in the service centers installed in our courts from the basic book extract, to certifications, to fixed dates with judges. But the praise I'm expressing now doesn't mean that it's enough like we're already working. I think it's important to keep thinking about the future. That is why this report, drawn up by six well-known experts, with seven theses and 50 recommendations, has just come at the right time, because we want the public service for the 21st century. ==References====External links== Technology often progresses faster than we sometimes want, and I believe that we, as the largest service provider in this country, must keep pace. Again come back to the computer specialist: What would be new if she started the covenant in some time? – Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I can also share the Council recommendation that we should pay our young employees higher entry salaries. That's not a question. We start with teachers, but the logical consequence is, of course, that the pay curve for all public servants is getting steeper at the beginning and should then flatten off, with the same amount of living – it is already important to say that – because at the beginning of the career, when looking for housing, it is clear that more money is needed at the start of the family. However, we want to involve in the professional environment of this future IT technician through an analysis of her abilities and skills, a potential analysis, all that she otherwise brings with her talents and skills. That is, if she speaks languages, if she has acquired additional qualifications, then it should also be included in her overall picture, and we may be able to use this employee at other places where she is needed. In the future, a so-called human resources agency is expected to deal with this, so that – we have already started the job market – it is easy to press a button on all employees on the internal labour market and their skills and skills to use them wherever they are needed. Of course, as I have already said, people should remain in the work process longer through old-age jobs instead of early retirement. There are also many good proposals from this committee of experts. Of course, we also want to get in more direct contact with the citizens, with you, ladies and gentlemen. We must pay very close attention to data protection, that is clear, but we want to modernise communication and allow citizens even more to assert their digital self-determination to the public service, to the public administration, to demand that they exercise their citizens' rights and to learn transparency. So we are starting this reform dialogue in autumn, ladies and gentlemen, and we are starting it together with you today. I would like to invite everyone to participate so that we as a public service fit for the 21st century. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6416	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers in the current hour, according to § 97 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6440	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear guests on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! The debate on the public service is often held very short. This is an immediate question of privileges, of good pay, and this is a discussion that we certainly do not have in the form. Public service currently employs 350 000 people – the Minister has already said so. If all the organizations close to the state are taken into account, then there are 500 000 people. That is, the public service is certainly the largest service provider here in Austria. The OECD study, which was launched in June 2011, has also confirmed that Austria has managed to reduce staff by 2.1 percentage points to 11.4 percent like no other industrialized country, with the OECD cut being 15 percent. So something is happening, and it is not that there is a standstill, as is always claimed. This study also states that our staff work much more. The payment is slightly below OECD 33's average, but the salary structure is also improved and adjusted, which means that the new studies – Bachelor's and Master's studies, which are now quite easily possible in the Bologna process – are integrated into the salary structure. This is a further development that you are always at the pulse of time, and I think that there are also performance-dependent salary components, which already exist, to some extent, of course, further expansion. Of course, we also need an increase in the attractiveness of public services, and this is certainly a central concern of Mrs Minister, because we have important future areas to cover with the public service. There are important aspects of education and childcare, while we believe in childcare that it is the first out-of-home schooling, as safety is a great aspect and, of course, also the care. The public service is certainly a major pioneer over the private sector in three aspects. On the one hand, apprenticeship employment: There are many apprenticeships for apprentices in the public service, and it is also possible – the woman minister has already confirmed it – to rise from the apprentice to the department head; such permeability is achievable, and one also has the opportunity to continue training. This is, of course, also an important process for combating youth unemployment. If you have qualified trainees for the apprentices and you offer qualified training, you have the best conditions for young people to volunteer to public service. Even if we also increase the entrance salaries so that it is for people at a family start-up or at the Purchase of an apartment becomes easier and it does not find itself from home in the debt trap, then this is a step in the right direction. The promotion of women in the public service is certainly a very positive area, because there are no different salaries, as is quite the custom in other areas. In public service this is not the case, there is no distinction as to salary whether someone is a man or a woman. In the areas where women are under-represented, there are women's promotion plans which are used to take measures to ensure that adequate women's share can be created. Public service also assumes a great responsibility in the employment of disabled people. We take up many disabled people in public service and simply give them the chance to live an independent life. It changes the labour market, and it is also constantly working with public services on this change. Otherwise we would work with blue paper today, otherwise there would be no eGovernment, otherwise there would be no incentives to carry out the tasks in the interests of the population. Society is becoming increasingly complex, so action must also be more and more diverse. So I can only underline what Mrs. Minister said: It's about keeping the public service fit, and as you know yourself, you can't do this with a measure you're taking, and then never comes again, but that's a constant process. This ongoing process is ongoing, based on the new data and facts received by the Council of Ministers by the Council of Ministers, and I am convinced and also a hundred percent of the work done by the public service colleagues.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6498	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6520	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Very briefly on the comments made by my colleague Herb: Yes, we too stand on the reforms in Styria and, of course, support the measures in this federal country. But we also have to say why there are reforms. There are two accesses: One is – and that is what I say as an active mayor – that one conducts policy with far-sightedness and with sustainability and already knows how much one can spend and what revenue one has; it is also necessary to budget. The second access is that one simply spends and then finds – as in the Styria – that one has accumulated €5 billion in debt and only in the normal financial statements has one billion deficit. [[Abg. Singer: And the ÖVP? The EIA has nothing to do with it?]] Nevertheless, these measures must be taken. I'm just warning you: Structures are very rapid, but building can take decades! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Singer.]] I would also like to address the state of Vienna, which, I believe, is the last federal country which has not implemented any harmonisation in the pension sector – we know it from the Court of Auditors reports – at least not in the form proposed by the Court of Auditors. In Vienna alone, non-adapted pensions create additional costs of € 350 million. By 2016, this is almost €700 million – this too must be said once! It does nothing if we have reports and have solutions by the Court of Auditors if the federal states do not implement them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Pendl: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the prospects of public service. The Federal Minister has addressed the seven theses and 50 recommendations. The pleasure of this report is that the proposals must be in line with the suggestions of colleagues from the GÖD, the Public Service Trade Union. In recent years, President Neugebauer has not only pointed out the measures to be taken, which agreements must be made. Now this has an external working group, the independent experts have done. Let us be glad, Mrs Federal Minister, because now it is said that it is going to start, and now we can actually go into it as it were! It has also been said today that the OECD report, which is also being published, also clearly shows that employees in the public service of Austria work well, works much more than colleagues in the other 33 OECD countries, but in this work is below the average of their colleagues in other OECD countries. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we need an administrative reform! If we are talking about the administrative reform today, we are almost exclusively sorry about it. Before we continue this pity as we have in recent weeks and months, and many good people are kneeling in and talking about billions of savings, we should also ask ourselves, as a High House, as a Member of Parliament and legislator in this House, the following questions in principle: What benefits do we want and can we offer to citizens, especially in what quality? And it's the basic question to ask: What do the citizens expect from us? What do they expect from the Republic, from its state? We here in the House are actually laying the foundation for administrative action with the legislative process, and it is we who are creating an inflated administrative system in all areas. These are our laws, which are often not practical, which are often not easy to implement, but quite the contrary. We need certainty in the impact and, above all, understandable and practical legal bases for those women and men who have to implement these laws outside and who also have to work on the basis of these laws. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But most of you decide for yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I look at what has been listed in recent weeks and months, for example, with the educators, with the executive, with the judicial officials – “inability” and “wrong”, it has been said. We as a service provider have not protected them! Yeah, what do we expect? We must also be those who not only ensure that women and men in the public service have the best possible training, that they also have career opportunities and career opportunities, but also give them courage and motivation, which, above all, do not make their daily work more difficult, but also facilitate them. I would like to thank them all today from this point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6620	Next, Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6641	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Colleagues of Herbs, the liberal state party that you have so mistreated in Graz was a grand Future Party of the FPÖ and has once again shown that there is only a hope for the future for this country, which is called HC Strache. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] – Brands That's what you're doing! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] The reform efforts made by you, but also by Mr Schittenhelm, in the Styria region, are at best an approximation to the political standards, as they already prevail in the neighbouring countries, for example in Upper Austria. I believe that this route of reform, which is so great described here, will once again be at the expense of the Steirers, namely, with financial additional burdens. But that's a different story and it's not for discussion here today either. Now on the subject. Yes, our officials and contract staff are doing excellent work, as measured by the modest and often unacceptable framework conditions that this Federal Government gives them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When we talk about the public service here, we are not just talking about “classical” administrative officials. The public service is divided into a variety of specific branches of work. For example, I take out our police officers, but also the army members, the judges and prosecutors, the teachers, to name just a few. It is therefore completely incomprehensible that all these different professional groups are still grouped together under a uniform and general service law. As a result, there is a need for professional, separate arrangements adapted to the respective tasks, which give these officials and administrative staff the legal framework, their rights and powers, but also their duties, which must be precisely defined. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are enough examples: The executive has long called for its own executive service right, but also its members, Mrs. Federal Minister, have been with you for years with regard to the creation of its own military right in the snake, and there you clearly need action. If we're already critical, I'll be able to sit right there. It is also necessary to criticise the framework conditions which officials and administrative staff often fail to fulfil in this form for the performance of their duties. If I look at the many services and administrative offices in the public service, I have to say that they are often handed down, in need of rehabilitation, and I think a work inspector who would carry out an examination would close some of these departments in the second. You are only lucky, Mrs. Federal Minister, that the labour inspectorate cannot access these federal offices. Therefore, the renovation remains in a stark position, although it would be urgently necessary to create working and performance-oriented conditions for these officials. It is also often the same with regard to services and equipment. For example, if you want to organize a toner for a printer in a service, this often leads to a spruce run. I could have you there. Give examples from the practice that you would probably not believe me! I do not even want to talk about the procurement of individual devices, because it often becomes an even greater problem. That's always what it says, there's no money available. But where there is money, this is in the chief days, in the cabinets and in the ministerial offices. I can only quote as an example: The former Minister of the Interior Fekter has an amount of €617 000 – €617 000 for four hours of self-representation and self-devotion for a single four-hour event in Linz. ............................................................................................................................................................ I should therefore like to ask you: Finally, take action, because I take note that: You obviously do not give our officials and administrative staff the necessary appreciation! I think you need urgent action. Believe me, even those little officials and administrative staff you're leaving out of here are voters. If you continue like this, I guarantee you: You will experience your blue miracle – in the truest sense of the word – at the end of the day, at the latest the next election day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6724	Now comes Mrs Mag. Musiol speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6745	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! They have invited you to the reform dialogue on public service. I would think that it is probably not the beginning, but the dialogue is longer, and there have been people who have been dealing with the issues of public service and who also point out that there are areas where there are not only problems but where the alarm is on the agenda. I would therefore like to focus on a professional group which is not primarily thought of when thinking about public service – it has already been mentioned today, at least in the field of work – namely kindergarten teachers, that is, those who work in the first educational institution and are responsible for providing children with good educational opportunities from the beginning and for the individual promotion of all children from the outset. – At least this would be the task of kindergarten teachers, who are mainly active in the federal states, but also here in the capital city of Vienna, in public institutions, but partly of course also in private institutions. The order is individual promotion, education of children from the time they enter the kindergarten, into the crib. This can be with a few weeks, but usually it is children between one and six years of age. The fact is, however, that the framework conditions found by these educators allow anything other than to provide education or individual support and support. There is also the problem, as far as you are concerned as an official minister is concerned, because this is due, among other things, to the fact that there are no uniform standards in Austria that there are no uniform rules for how many children should be in a group, how many pedagogues per certain number of children should stand in a group or how training and supervision are regulated – in a profession where physical, emotional, psychological and social demands are very strong, and in which, of course, one may also need external support in one situation or another. What is also not uniformly regulated is the question of remuneration, namely: How can a kindergarten teacher secure her existence? How can she even live from the money she receives for 30 or 40 hours a week? Recently, the media have once again published the differences in pay within the public institutions responsible for local authorities. We come to the conclusion that there are only two federal states paying the minimum wage rate applicable to private kindergartens. All the other Länder are below. But now you have to know that this minimum wage rate is not a price from which you can afford a luxurious life, let alone find a good outcome, especially if you still have a family to earn. The minimum wage rate is €1 822 gross, and you can all calculate what you can do with this income. However, this minimum wage rate is not even paid. There are numerous municipalities or federal states where kindergarten teachers do not even reach this €1 822, but are far below. In this media report you are then quoted, Mrs. Secretary of State, and you say: The countries are responsible for this – an answer that we unfortunately receive very often from members of the Federal Government in this area. I'll tell you: It can't be that it depends in Austria on the postal code, on the community in which you work as a kindergarten teacher, whether you earn 1 500 € or 2 300 € for the same work. Nor can it be that it depends on the postal code whether you find a group of 25 children or a group of 15 children. This requires uniform quality standards for the employees as well as for the children. Against this background, it is important and very important to discuss, in the context of this reform dialogue, the fact that one of the important measures is also the one – and this is our clear attitude! – to raise the responsibility for the teachers at the federal level. Only by this will we achieve uniform standards, only by doing so will we really come to a fair reward and to just conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6799	The next item is the speech by Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6821	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to express my amazement by the Minister's invitation to dialogue: They have been in the government continuously since 2006 by the SPÖ and the chancellor. You have now needed five years to call for dialogue. We have been demanding this for many years, because in the public service there is nothing new about a new development, but it is in a state like never before in the Second Republic. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, visit the Federal Offices once! There are internal termination and burn-out widespread. They will not find this anywhere as often as they do in the Federal Offices. What's the cause of that? What's the reason? – I would first like to address the already documented framework conditions, because that is where it begins. Let's get the police here. – There are massive overtimes there, and this is a difficult task area. What is the Federal Government doing? She promises 1,000 new police officers. But no sight has yet been seen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What else does the Federal Government do? – She announces and calls this the new innovative idea, namely: The posters are now lured into the interior resort with a premium! Well, the success she had with it does not even deserve the word “moderate. ” That was a flop! Now let's look at the federal army! – As unwarranted witnesses, I am drawing up the public prosecutor’s office, where Mr Kostelka, a SPÖler, is responsible. In view of what one hears about the status of the barracks, it must not be surprising if one no longer has confidence in the service provider. Then: The Federal Army is in such a bad condition as never before in the Second Republic. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Neubauer and Mr Mag. Stefan.]] We currently have a Minister of Defence in Austria, which is no longer to be surpassed in the negative. Yes, he is and will also remain the worst defence minister in the Second Republic! [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] Now let's do the schooling! – A courageous minister who dares to say: Two hours more for the teachers! It was no longer a talk about what it is about, namely, the youngest ones in our society, because they get the best possible training – keyword: PISA test – but it was only about the question: Should a teacher be two hours longer in school? The school area offers the following image: a totally outdated system, structures that are hardly yet comprehensible, federal competence, national competence. There was a big debate, and there must be mention of the role of the union. President Neugebauer put it to the fore as the custodian of this system: Change: Njet! There's no such thing! After all in the question: If there is now a uniform federal competence or a uniformly disputing national competence, President Neugebauer has made a single proposal: Let's just leave it all the way it is! [[Abg. Neugebauer: Because it has proved itself! Unfortunately, you have no idea of all of this!]] It has proved successful, and it has proved successful for individual EIA functionaries. That's important to you! It is important to you to be able to occupy directorial posts and to assign schools clearly. But that's not the important thing in school! It is important that the youngest receive the best possible training. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what, we say, would be wise, where should the train go? – We say: Debureaucratisation, slim administration and thus more flexibility! There's no way past that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Minister announces: Let's go! From 2006 to 2011, it was considered and now announces: That's what we do! This policy also suffers from the public service image. However, only the legislator is responsible for this. One thing is certain: We need a new right of service, which includes federal, state and local authorities. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] It's inside, too! Mrs. Federal Minister, present it! You want to enter into a dialogue – there you have us as a partner! A new service right is overdue! This must also take into account specific features of individual services. But we also have to change the right to pay. Now I'm going to hear from Mrs. Minister: Yes, yes, we will. – We repeatedly call for justice there: the same amount of living, the higher content of entry and the flat curve! I have already told you this, Mrs Minister, several times. The standard answer to this is: We don't have any money for that! That is where I come across the word ‘Greece aid’. It is obvious that billions do not play a role. But we have no money for the remuneration reform. In We currently have a wealth of pensions in school. So now would be the ideal time to change something there. Mrs Bundesminister, here with the reform package! At least you've got us as a partner. But we've heard announcements for years. We therefore lack the belief that you will be able to present this in your own legislative proposal here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Next point: Same pension right for all. – In order to ensure that performance providers are not too short, incentives should be created. Finally, I come to the Secretary-General to see how it works. I've come to the end of the sentence. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] – We currently have 150 political secretaries. They're taking control of the administration. These are not official instructions. [[Call the SPÖ: The speaking time has expired!]] They are issued as recommendations from the Minister or the Minister who always get there and...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6921	Mr President, I really gave you almost a minute now, and I have to finish now. [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Windwood.]] Next, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e6955	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! I believe that this issue is an important one. I would therefore like to invite you to take this issue a little more seriously, because I must say: The statements and contributions made by some opposition speakers are neither more correct nor better. Only briefly replicated: In view of the fact that you have saved 3,000 police officers on purpose, I find it pointless that you are now going here on every occasion and saying: We need more people! It was this federal government that created a thousand additional planning posts alone for the executive. [[Abg. Where are they?]] [[Abg. Petzner: Where?]] You have to take it up and train it, you know that very well! One thing is certain: After this legislative period, thousands more will be available despite post-retirement pensions. This is a right measure, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, and it has been set by this Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: We haven't seen anything of it yet!]] Mr Herbert, we all know how business is going. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] There are problems from another Ministry of Public Service, so we can save ourselves! I mean, we really should stay here. My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen, I have said over a decade here again and again: Let us not make public service a cost factor exclusively! The employees in the public service – around 480 000 at all levels of the local authorities – did not deserve this! [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] They are doing excellent work, and we should thank them jointly for this, ladies and gentlemen, and not just incessantly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let me now address some specific questions. – I have the impression that you either don’t look at this or that you just don’t want to take note of it, because one wants to be loud differentiated service rights, one wants to merge all of them. If I were to ask here how many service rights we have in Austria, I would probably get quite different answers. For information only: In the public service, we have 40 service rights, all levels combined. Now, 2011 is the perspective: We need to become a future-oriented – a good way, Mrs. Federal Minister, I congratulate you on this! – and come to a modern administration, at all levels, and should not, so to speak, demand their own rights for each area in Schrebergarten-Mentality, for this is not in the interest of the colleagues of the public service. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there must be a dialogue with all local authorities to define what services one wants. The next step is to: How did I implement these services? But let us not forget one thing – and look at it in all the countries of the world! –: Public service is an important guarantee for legal certainty and for securing the economic location! Everyone who is active in the export industry today knows how important legal certainty is. And this is guaranteed by an orderly, a good, a first-class administration. We must always be aware of this in our discussions, this must always play a role in our reflections. It's too easy to demand more continuously, while the other says: It's too much! So, dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we will not solve this issue successfully! There is no question at all – and I would be glad if there was a consensus of all parties – that there must finally be a modern solution where young employees have a modern income. But if we tip our salary scheme so to speak – and that is no question at all! – then we know that this also causes costs, because the employees who already belong to the older age group must continue to be paid, and for the boys who now get more, we also need more. I mean, All we have to do is confess. If we confess to this, then – and I am sure of this – in an old social partnership tradition, the unions of the public service with the relevant government members will bring a good solution. But in all these negotiations, with all these considerations, our goal must be: a modern, contemporary public administration for the people, and also in the future, because it is the guarantee of services for the Austrians. I mean, this is an important undertaking, and I invite you all to join us. We could actually start with this right away: Let's do it quickly! Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to congratulate you very warmly on your activities.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7049	Mr Singer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7072	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall, in the plenary and in front of the screens at home! “Modern, service-oriented, economical,” it says in the title of the current hour – attributes that I believe apply to the entire service sector and, of course, also to the public service. Over 350 000 people are employed in the public service in Austria and are being given a very good witness internationally. This has also been expressed by the experts who have written this report, which has already been addressed several times. We have a high-level administration in Austria. We are facing great challenges. The development in the field of eGovernment was specifically addressed. The OECD says that no other industrial country in Austria has managed to make reductions in the public service. There are comparisons with other countries: We have 11.4 percent public staff compared to the total workforce, while in Scandinavia – in Norway, for example – 29.3 percent. That is, our public administration is slender. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our public service is, as has been said, classed internationally excellent. I would like to thank all the staff in the public service, the 350 000 employees, for their excellent work they are doing. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Of course, time has brought new challenges, and they will not be insignificant in the future. Many of these challenges were addressed in the Advisory Report, but under the key statement of the need for a powerful public service. The lack of skilled workers was also addressed. There is, of course, a contradiction to this. The question of the attractiveness of the public service is to be addressed, it is to be found answers. In this context, as others have already done, I would like to address the question of the recognition of the Bachelor's degree or the right of employment and remuneration. The Commission advises on market-oriented remuneration. We need higher entry salaries and a lower salary increase if we continue to have a steady income. These are important demands which, in my opinion, make public service attractive to young people. But I am also thinking about demographic development. We in the public service will also have fewer young and more older employees in the future – an important challenge! In my opinion, a special attention should also be paid to health care. It is important to put emphasis on old-age jobs. It is also important to develop models for a moving transition to the pension. These are points that concern not only the public service, but the whole area of our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, if you read the report through, you can see that some of the items in it are not so new at all. For example, in key areas there are demands from the public service trade union, some of which have been raised for a very long time. On the other hand, it can be seen that training is being addressed, that one is talking about lifelong learning, or that one is talking about knowledge management – all of my opinion is essential path members into the future. However, it must not be overlooked that it is already a broad one. There is a need for education. I am thinking, for example, of the police schools, of the many academies; it was only necessary to upgrade them accordingly. And – interesting to me personally –: Staff discussions, training plans and management development programmes are called for. This is interesting for me, because they have already been implemented in the Upper Austrian State Service – by the way, the salary reform. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we need more flexibility, more modernity and more mobility in the public service – no question! But we need, Mr Windholz, also more permeability; this is also mentioned in the report. We must become more flexible in serving our citizens. We must therefore provide attractive jobs in the public service. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] But I also say quite openly: We also pay particular attention to public service. Summary: I am confident that much of what the experts have suggested can be implemented. The experts also support the positions of the Public Service Trade Union. I should also like to remind you, Mrs Bundesminister, that the trade union says: What prevents us from implementing? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] It calls on you to enter into the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, nothing stands in the way of a social partnership solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7167	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7188	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pendl has referred to earlier and has thus been shocked by the opposition that she does not deal with the issue which is being debated here. Well, if I take the words of Mr. Central Secretary Herbs here, I have to say: He has made a smooth theme mistake here, because with the theme of today's current hour: “Modern, service-oriented, economical – perspectives for the public service” he has not discussed at all. So he has committed a smooth issue failure here – a failure that would have resulted in a smooth “not enough” due to the shortcomings in content. But with a “not enough” one can climb quite smoothly at SPÖ. He only needs one module at the Renner Institute, and then it will go again for the next period. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Modern, service-oriented, economical – that would be smooth what he would have had to say if he had actually informed himself about what took place at the Free Party Conference in Graz. Then you would have known that these words, namely “modern”, “service-oriented”, “sparing”, should not only be a perspective for the public service, but for the whole of Austria – and that with the FPÖ and H.C. Strache. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If he is excited that the government is being bullied by the opposition, by the so evil media with the criticism that this government is producing a standstill, then I must say: Yes, with this government there is not only a standstill, on the contrary, you sometimes sprints, when it comes to running to Brussels properly – you are developing a record rate – or when it comes to to create links for the rescue of German, English and French pleite banks and speculators to Greece. That's where you're developing a record pace, there's certainly not the talk about standstill! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps the Lord of Herbs does not feel a standstill subjectively either. There are also beings that move all day long – I think there is to draw a comparison, to a hamster in the wheel, where there is no standstill, only: he doesn't bring anything on. But you have to remember from this coalition, that's like a vehicle: If one has put the forward and the other in the return, then the gear will not last for a long time. I can tell you that. And if you tell us what's going on in the public service: Teacher service law – what goes on there? This would be so necessary that something goes on here! Mrs Federal Minister Schmied has said that she has adopted the major reforms, but now it is only going on in small steps. What's going on here is not a small step, but they're sleepy feet. You have to negotiate day and night on this issue of teacher service rights, where it is a matter of attracting the profession, of higher entry salaries, because in the future we will have a lot of teachers left by retirement, and these posts will have to be re-occupied. But what is to be offered to young people who want to make their choice today when we tell them: Teacher law, teacher training, everything in the waiting loop, we can't give you security? – That would be necessary, however. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If Mrs. Schittenhelm has said that we have not protected teachers, police officers, judicial officers, I must tell you: We're free! I don't know what it's about you not taking this initiative and now you've been putting yourself on top of ashes here. We defend this public service because we believe it is important, because bureaucracy plays an important role in democracy and protects – it has already been stressed – the rights and freedoms of the individual. What does the Constitutional Judge Kucko-Stadlmayer say? I quote: ‘It is dangerous if this comes to mind: if the rules and the apparatus for their execution become self-implementation and only serve a political system that is sufficient for itself.’ That's the problem! And I haven't heard from any of the government parties that sometime in the public service they wanted to attack the problem of the proportion and the party book. This is really an evil thing, but you don't hear anything about it – no matter what invitations to any dialogues – that you'd work on eliminating the proportion. Finally, I would like to give you a quote from the philosopher Karl Jaspers, and this should be a reminder for you: “It is the fate of a people that teachers produce and respect its teachers.” That would be important – and please do something!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7279	Mr Walser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7301	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I believe that the motto that lies over this current hour is clearly the wrong theme, when I read here: “Modern, service-oriented, economical”. Proposals; As we can reform the public service, we have heard immediately zero. I think it is also very typical of the ‘responsibility’ with which the colleagues of the government parties are discussing here when the President of the Public Service Trade Union does not even mention himself in this matter. This seems to me to be quite amazing and, from my point of view, speaks volumes for the seriousness you deal with. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way: one aspect that I noticed: They would like to thank the officials, the public officials, each of them. But they can't cut off from it. They are trying to take political change out of it, including working people, who unfortunately cannot defend themselves, but do not do anything about structural reform. I would like to add a specific example. A year ago, there was a kind of start-up mood here in the Subcommittee on Administrative Reform. The government presented us with a paper on administrative reform in the school sector. All three opposition parties immediately agreed because there were very sensible approaches inside. And what happens now, a year later? Two months ago, the Minister gave up, in the middle of the legislative period, she said: No, it is not feasible to oppose the resistance of the countries, since I am realistic. Yes, please, that's not how we go about reforms. We all know what kind of confusion is in the school sector, and it's not that we're making a kneefall in front of state princes. This is a task of politics itself. This is cowardice in front of the party friends, no matter how we want to name it. This means: no structural reform, no further co-operation, often against each other by district school councils, by national school councils, no further unclear distribution of competence, no further different levels of administration, no one else. When I look from my school, a federal school, out of the window, I see a vocational school, in national dependence. 300 meters away is a primary school. Three times different school holders: the country, the municipality, the federal government, three times different service rights, but three times educators and educators. You can't even cooperate there! And that's where the Minister says: I am realistic, I give up, a great reform does not come into question! – That’s not how we will bring this state forward, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With a modern administration, I'm sorry, this has absolutely nothing to do with. Service-oriented. – Ask the parents who now have children with “not enough” how service-oriented our system reacts here, which means for parents who have invested about 150 million in private aid over the year, according to the workers’ chamber’s estimate! What is the school administration doing in this context? What opportunities are given You're helping the directors at our schools to help these kids? Is this service orientation? I think people see this clearly different. And that this is supposed to be economical, you probably can't tell anyone. In Austria we have the most expensive, one of the most expensive school systems in the world. – We know the results. And here you do all the serious one hour under the title of these three terms: “modern”, “service oriented”, “sparing”?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! All the specialists, all the professionals, your own people tell you what to do. It's an open secret: In the field of education, in the school sector, we need to radically simplify administration. I can quote the Minister myself: School location, regional school authority, ministry, these are three ewes No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - Yes, do it! Don't give up in the middle of the legislative period, but do it! “Modern, service-oriented, economical” – ladies and gentlemen, I can only say that is a pang for officials in the public service, but this is the even greater pang for those who expect from this public service the service they rightly hope for because they pay them finally.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7385	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7406	High house! The Federal Minister has declared in recent days that he wants to structure the public service. Pragmatisation wants to question it, and more people are expected to be employed in the police and schools with migration backgrounds. So I can only say: nothing but empty words without the will of implementation. Mr Armselig, what you can celebrate for, Mrs Minister, and this Cinnamon, which is listed here today in Parliament by your group. One clearly sees that here theorists are at work, which have no idea of the practice. Mrs Minister, explain to me how you want to bring more migrants to the police if many people without a migration background do not pass the German exam! This, by the way, is the main reason for my knowledge of the people with migration backgrounds, which is why they fail in the police reception examination. Do you want to introduce a two-class test for migrants, who can't have German, Mrs. Minister? Explain to me how you imagine a fair civil servant pension system if railers – whether on the inside or outside, whether on the night or on the office – are able to retire early on due to a clause that counts the overtime on working life! Mrs Minister, enough paid for red-black! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Create It is a uniform pension system for officials and ASVG staff, with a life-work model, taking into account special difficulties and overtime! Performance must pay off – and it must not count ahead who was active in what close-to-state operation or had the right political party book. Minister, fairness is in demand! Last week, at a meeting of the Committee on the Interior, many executives had to retire for the sake of illness – because of burnout and other occupational diseases – because they would no longer be able to stand up to the retiring service of old age. Extreme pension deductions, with which these executive officials are required, are not sustainable. Mrs Bundesminister, you will find a solution on this matter, because so to speak, moving staff to another ministry and parking them in between, that is not a solution! Your red-black privilege policy is only about looking where red and black are inside – and then there are privileges. This is privilege rites, Mrs. Minister! And that's too late! But you're not an official minister, But a ‘privileged minister’, I would like to mention you. On the one hand, you preach privilege reduction – and decide at the same moment Your government bulls this week here in the National Council a clause: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Mayor – of course, 99 percent is about red and black – who were former officials, in addition to the early pension, can get 100 percent of the mayor's salary, and you now also want to enforce this for ASVG mayors who are in turn your couleur. This is privilege rites, Mrs Minister – and not a reduction in privileges! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] “Normal” ASVG early pensioners may earn only €374, and I ask: Where's justice? – They create additional privileges for your party base. There we can only say: Create You're actually giving up privileges, Mrs. Minister! Decide for the transparent, performance-oriented pension account developed by BZÖ, which is equal and fair for everyone! Then: Performance must pay off, ladies and gentlemen! Put together the 21 social insurance institutions, which would mean: only more a president's job instead of 21, further: fewer service vehicles for bonuses, less administration in this area – and that also means less tax money for this device and thus lower contributions for the contributors. There, Minister, you can and should make reforms! In this context, a quote from the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of 21. ==References== Under the heading ‘The Rule of the Secretary of State’ it reads: “Participation policy has an ever-increasing influence on domestic administration. A key role is given to the political secretary in the ministerial cabinets. They're getting more and more. And they impose upon the administration the will of their minister and their party." I quote: "Most of the interventions of ministers are about influencing personnel decisions or the allocation of funds (e.g. for ads) in a party-political manner. As a rule, these interventions are formulated as ‘the Minister’s wish’, but only verbally.’ There, Minister, you're in need of cleaning! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The final sentence is as follows: The Austrian taxpayers have already paid enough for their red-black privilege policy. Therefore: Put an end to this!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7529	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:23:50]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7550	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7862	I also say that the eighth report of the Incompatibility Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[10:24:09]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 8096/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7884	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 8096/AB to Question 8181/J by Mr Jarolim, Member of the Commission, on the award of contracts by the Federal Minister of the Interior, Mr Strasser. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, at least at 3 p.m. [[10:24:53]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7908	The debate on points 2 and 3, 4 and 5, 7 to 9, 14 and 15, 19 to 21 and 22 and 23 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. I see a word on business treatment. Please, Mr Mag. Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e7941	Madam President. At the end of this three-day session, the National Council will decide between 11. ==References== In September, a session-free to ensure a working-time for Members. This does not mean any parliamentary activity for two months, between each meeting dates are even 74 days, on which no meeting takes place. This regulation is antique. It dates back to a time when there were other transport options to the then capital and residence city of Vienna, in a large empire that was much larger than today's small Austria, where one can certainly be faster in Vienna. This regulation is therefore antiquated and rightly provokes public outrage, especially as Members' contributions are still paid. By the way, that was not the case at the time. Therefore, according to § 46 para. 4 in conjunction with § 59 para. 1 The Rules of Procedure Act, on business treatment, that all the committees of the National Council, which cannot meet in any way under the Rules of Procedure Act at the time of the meeting, are to be instructed to continue their work during the part-session-free period. And I apply according to § 59 para. 3 Rules of Procedure a debate on this request. Madam President, if you wish, I shall also present the committees in detail. I would also like to say that my group will make a request to amend the Rules of Procedure, because it is not even possible to put parliamentary questions in writing to the Ministers during this part-session. This means that those Members who want to work cannot even comply with their right of interaction and control. Madam President, you know that this request can also be made at an earlier date than on Friday, where this decision will be on the agenda which I have already criticized. In such a case, the Zägernitz-commentary provides that this request should then be resettled. If you, Madam President, do not put this motion to the vote today and do not allow it to be debated, I shall put it again on Friday. I appeal – again – to the Zägernitz-commentary. There is also a precedent. Madam President, I will accept if you do not do this today, but I announce that we will apply for it again on Friday.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8012	Mr President, you have already predicted what my decision will be. In accordance with § 46 in conjunction with § 59 GOG, I do not allow this request now because it would only be made in connection with the decision to terminate the meeting. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you don't look good at it, that you don't allow it! Do you want to go on vacation for two months?]] [[Abg. Head: It adheres to the Rules of Procedure!]] You are free to submit this request again at that time. I also note that the Zägernitz-commentary goes by on the subject or is almost a little superficially formulated; I say that quite openly. That is my decision. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you have against Mr. Zägernitz?]] Would you like to speak on business, Mr Hofer? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8074	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, one can, of course, approach this request because, especially in difficult times, policy is particularly required to be active in the parliamentary process, but I would like to point out that in the last presidential conference of the BZÖ club, there was no objection when it came to the end of the conference. The BZÖ Klubobmann agreed to the end of the meeting. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] I find it unheard of that Mr Stadler falls so brutally in the back of his clubman Bucher! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with FPÖ and SPÖ as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[10:29]] [[10:29:20]] Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8121	We have already entered the agenda. A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 126 minutes, FPÖ 113, Green 99 and BZÖ 95 minutes. The following Rules of Procedure were agreed for item 1 until 1 p.m.: a round of speakers with 9 minutes, a member of the SPÖ's government with 9 minutes, another round of 7 minutes, a member of the ÖVP's government with 7 minutes, then a round of 5 minutes each, a member of the SPÖ's government with 5 minutes and a further round with 4 minutes; the series of speakers according to the size of the group. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television broadcast. Before the beginning of the last round of speakers, the President-in-Office shall distribute the remaining time in such a way that all political groups still speak evenly in the television era. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the honourable Member's speaking time to 10 minutes per debate without club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:31:01]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1220, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the People's Group Act (1312 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8176	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, on the balcony I should like to warmly welcome the Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia's Excellency Alexander Gerzina. [[General condolences.]] I warmly welcome the head of state of Carinthia Gerhard Dörfler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where's the sheep?]] [[Abg. Grosz: And where is the sheep?]] I very much welcome the Landesrat Dr. Martinz. I particularly welcome the representatives of the Carinthian Slovenian Storm and Sadovnik. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] – I hope I haven't forgotten anyone at the time of greeting. Mr Wittmann was the first speaker to speak. 9 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8241	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: It's only gentlemen!]] High house! If, after 56 years, a regulation concerning the State Treaty is to be adopted, then, I think, it can be described as a historic moment. And I also hope that we will find a unanimous solution to this problem today, because I believe it is necessary to decide on a lasting and stable solution in order to remain in dialogue on this basis with the groups. What are the basics? – The base number one is Article 7 of the 1955 State Treaty, which regulates the rights of minorities. On the basis of this State Treaty, an attempt was made in 1971 to establish a system which essentially covered a 20 per cent regime. We have tried to draw up the local maps of this decision accordingly – and we all know the very unpleasant images that arose from it, because some of the population did not agree with what was probably understood from a different court – pardon, history! ==References== [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] However, this has shown that it is difficult to solve such a problem against some of the population. It then came to the People's Group Law 1976, which is the basis of our current regulation. This was last amended by the Federal Law No. 52 of 2009. In this People's Group Act, there is a regulatory authority and a provision that the topography regulation and the official language should be resolved with a 25 percent mixed-lingual share. This 25 percent finding in the Volksgruppengesetz is a simple legal provision, and in 1977 the regulation provided for in this Act was adopted. This Regulation, of course, covers only those municipalities which meet this requirement of a mixed-lingual share of the population of 25 percent. In 2001, a Constitutional Court of Justice was then established, which in fact removed this entire solution from 1976, by the Constitutional Court, in its own right, that it would base its findings on a 10-percent scale in the proportion of the mixed-lingual population. However, it should be noted that, in the international field, the proportion of the mixed-lingual population varies from 5 per cent to 25 per cent depending on nationality. Even Dr. Korinek, the former President of the Constitutional Court, in his work “Ös terreichisches Bundes Constitutionalrecht” (Ös terreichisches Bundes Constitutional Law), published together with Dr. Holoubek, says in a margin line that a clear percentage cannot be derived from the state treaty of 1955 or from international law in a knowledgeable way. That is why the Constitutional Court will have had its reasons, but also with today's solution, we are moving within this international framework, and I believe that this broad consensus, which can be achieved here, also justify solving the problem in this form, as we do today. Since 2001, 25 findings of the Constitutional Court have been made in individual cases of the places concerned, and in the end the Topography Regulation of 1977 was adopted again in 2006 and finally extended by two places. This scheme from 2006 has been valid until now. There was an attempt to solve the problem under the rule of the Schüssel in 2006. [[Abg. Petzner: You prevented it! You prevented it!]] I already want to address arguments that my controversies will bring. I think it is necessary to blame each other for who would have prevented anything from happening, which group whenever voted against. [[Abg. Petzner: The SPÖ was against it!]] [[Abg. Booker: Yes, but you must stay with the truth!]] There have been attempts to solve this several times. In 2007, there was also an attempt to build cast iron. Let us look into the future and say that there is a consensus solution this time and can be started from this consensus solution. Why are we under pressure to reach this solution? ==References== In February 2011, a new knowledge of the Constitutional Court, in which this Regulation expired from 2006 and by the Constitutional Court with a period of 30 years. In September 2011, a replacement was requested. This was probably a very dry list of the legal basis of this decision and the reasons why this decision will be taken. However, I believe that the need for action is very easy to read and therefore, of course, also the difficulties to be overcome. For example, we have had very serious legal and factual problems in presenting the last data. ==References====External links== In the last census of 2001, we have the latest data on the mixed-lingual share! But even there the samples were relatively small and the calculations showed very great inaccuracy. As a result of the registration introduced in 2006, there is no further survey of the language of use. Therefore, these statistical values, which we are using here, are all subject to very serious problems. – And you could get the next problem out of it: Even the move of a few fewer people would mean that the number of persons is reduced or exceeded. ==References== On April 1, 2011, a memorandum listing 164 local authorities, a constitutional regulation was agreed and, ultimately, measures other than accompanying measures for the ethnic groups were taken. These 164 villages have been derived from the existing Topography Regulation, from the existing decisions of the Constitutional Court and from a proportion of the mixed-lingual population of 17.5 percent. The fact that these negotiations were not easy can be imagined. We have to talk to all the mayors, with all the local associations, with all the political parties. I congratulate the two negotiators, who were politically responsible for it, namely the State Secretary Ostermayer and the head of state of Kärnten Dörfler, on this achievement, which was done there because it is a historical fact that they have made a great deal of money for this solution. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ]] I can also say that State Captain Dr. Peter Kaiser played a non-essential role in the negotiations with the mayors. All parties were therefore represented and involved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] I believe that this solution is a guide. It must be anchored in the constitutional order so that it is also a stable and direction-setting solution for the future so that it cannot be removed by road signs. Finally, all the ethnic groups have also agreed to this compromise. Unfortunately, one of these groups has jumped back, but in the end there is a very, very broad basis for this solution. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] However, I would like to say that this solution is not a final version of this problem, it is also working on a People's Group Act, which will be concluded in autumn with the various working groups and will also come to Parliament here as a new solution that goes beyond the current situation. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Now we have regulated the Topography Regulation and the official language solution, and that in the constitutional order, and this will be a permanent solution that can be seen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8360	I can now also warmly welcome the Deputy Head of State Dr. Peter Kaiser. [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: And what about Mr Scheuch, Madam President? Let's say that today, too?]] The next speaker was Mrs Plassnik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8397	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! “Where the border was written with blood”, these words from the Carinthian song of my home were already a secret to me as a school child in Carinthia, although I sang them with the same spirit as everyone else. By the way, they came from 1928, not much of the text of Johann Nepomuk Thaurer of Gallenstein from 1822. These words were added as the fourth verse, so to speak, after a competition of the Carinthian national team in 1930 for the 10th anniversary of the Carinthian referendum. So they are not, like the rest of the Carinthian text, a text of the poetic praise of a wonderful landscape, but they are a very conscious political message. I, ladies and gentlemen, am grateful to be allowed to live in a century in which neither in my country nor in another country of our continent the borders are written with blood. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Yugoslavia is only 20 years ago! You should know that as a former foreign minister!]] For all of us, the times when borders could be changed by force are over forever. This is for me the lowest content of European agreement. Today we have the same currency on both sides of the Karawanken, we live in the same area of common economy, work and life. Europe is growing together. And this carefully designed combination gives us the certainty that borders have permanently lost the sharp separation, the threatening, the demarcational. Nobody, ladies and gentlemen, needs more fear in Carinthia today to have our borders. [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] I see the Carinthian local system, confirmed by the Austrian Constitutional Legislator today, as an expression of a newly acquired Carinthian self-confidence, a modern, European self-confidence that includes Slovenian-speaking and German-speaking Carinthia alike. My father's family comes from Windisch Bleiberg, where there has been a bilingual village panel since 2005 – a small intermediate step. I've never heard my grandmother and her nine siblings speak anything other than Windish. All in my family were and are glowing Carinthians. Now there will be 164 bilingual town boards – not as a generous concession of a majority to a minority, but as an expression of original commonness. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For me, Carinthia is simply not imaginable without his two languages, and for me today a new page is not reached, but a new page is opened. And there is a legitimate reason for hope: More than any third popular student today attends Slovenian lessons, which are mainly children from purely German-speaking families. The incentive? – Smaller student classes, better learning care, entry into another language and culture, says Professor Stefan Karner, one of the tireless co-designers of the local panel solution. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is a climate of trust and openness. In 2011, the year 56 is under the State Treaty, whose Article 7 obliges us to implement the rights of Slovenian-speaking Carinthians, but it is also the year 20 after the achievement of the state of ownership of our southern neighbours Slovenia, 17 years after the referendum on Austrian accession to the EU, six years after the accession of Slovenia. To this time we have all personal memories: It's our time, we've got them to answer. And we are also aware that we are for a very long time – yes, too long! – needed to find a suitable placeboard control. My hope is that all of us have learned to do so during these long and often frustrating years, namely that viable solutions cannot be acquired by yet so well-informed individuals that they cannot be permanently prevented by still so narrow-minded individuals, that confidence as self-confidence must grow, and apparently much more time is needed for this, than many have expected that indispensable impulses are now coming from civil society in Carinthia – the key to consensus – of people who had the courage and the strength to take over opinions and to deal with one another. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And perhaps this is also a lesson: that in Carinthia, even those whose wounds have not yet been healed are being spoken and heard, and that we keep our inner ears open to their view of things. Carinthia can do more, ladies and gentlemen! I wish my home country that it should step out of the negative image treasures of recent years with today's regulation. In addition to multilingualism, Carinthia has significant location advantages: The expenditure on research and development is in the top Austrian field, Carinthia has the highest share of renewable energy, and in Carinthia a number of European leading companies and world market leaders have established themselves. A better understanding between the groups will create new opportunities for the future and prospects for young people. It will help to make even better use of the human and economic potential of Carinthia, and it will also counteract the migration of many well-trained, motivated young people. By the way, ladies and gentlemen: Who really prevents us – we or our children – from adding a more contemporary, self-confident fifth verse to the Carinthian home song, perhaps inspired by Ingeborg Bachmann, a great Carinthian who has so said it – I quote –: “But we want to talk about borders, and we also want to go across borders by every word: we will cross them in front of homesickness and then be in harmony with every place.” – So far Ingeborg Bachmann. And if I'm already wishing, I say goodbye today to the House in gratitude of the colleagues, the employees and, above all, the people I have had the honour of representing in recent years. I wish the people's representatives in this country more passion for the need to think and explain in greater contexts. We simply cannot afford the illusion of a retreat into a national snail house. We are part of this new, fascinating Europe with all its difficulties and all its opportunities. Therefore, if we resist the temptation of self-provincization, we perceive our design spaces with confidence and Elan! [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we face not only the terrible simplifications, but also the terrible insurers with emphasis! Let us also hold the debate on the future of parliamentary debate in this House and from this House. We owe this to our home country Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8473	Dear Mrs. Dr. Plassnik! I can also give you all the good for your further professional future from my place and on behalf of the Members of Parliament and wish you every possible good in the service of the Republic of Austria, just as you have said. Good luck! [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] The next item is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8511	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that today the head of state of Carinthia Gerhard Dörfler is here, because he is also the decisive father of this important historical solution. Yeah, it's a historic day. Yes, it is true, Carinthia is a wonderful country with wonderful people and Carinthians, too, it is worth expressing a love for this beautiful country, for its wonderful people and for what this federal country has done in these decades. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After 56 years, a just, lasting and sustainable solution finally comes to pass! One can only be pleased that this will succeed after so long, because for decades, decisive politicians in this country, including different parties, have failed to reach a viable and definitive solution in the interests of all parties involved. That is why I am proud that this solution has been achieved under a liberal Carinthian state government and under a freeman of state. We have managed, during our free government response in Carinthia after decades, to bring this problem to a solution that is satisfactory for all, and which above all is also borne by the Carinthian population. This is a very important principle and an important principle. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is due to several people, including, of course, the head of state Gerhard Dörfler, but also the state councillors Uwe Scheuch, Harald Dobernig and Christian Ragger, who have contributed to this, and of course also to Mr Ostermayer, who has been very decisive and positive in the negotiations, and who has ultimately shown how reasonable it is not to limit the Freedom Party and to enter into negotiations and thus to make possible important, sustainable solutions and decisions in Austria, which have not succeeded for decades. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Yes, this is a good approach, and we can only be glad that there is a State Secretary, Ostermayer, who has broken through this exclusion, which has been set by his party leader. In addition, it was not decided from above over the heads of the population, but the population was involved in a popular survey. And that was good, right and important. More than 140,000 feedbacks have been made, over 30 percent of Carinthians have participated, and almost 70 percent have signaled clear consent here. This shows that in Carinthia one has not been abolished, that one has also taken away the Carinthian population, has clarified it, has involved what is a very important process, because we want a sustainable solution, where Radikalinsikis, on any side, should not be a place. And this has succeeded! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as this poll is concerned, all the other parties in this House have repeatedly criticised the fact that it was unnecessary because it is – rightly – not legally binding. But believe me, Mr Klubobmann Cap, for us, there is a moral obligation which also has a weight in politics. And that is exactly what we have expressed here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is, of course, also a success of democracy policy, which has been successful and where only €200 000 has been spent on a direct-democratic survey – compared to Vienna, where your mayor Häupl has staged a no-na-population of €8 million in taxpayers' money before the Vienna election, where he then tried the dog-strummerl question and completely ruled out the really crucial and important questions of the population of Vienna. [[Call the SPÖ: “Only”?- Oh, my God!]] I think the comparison makes us sure here, too. Let me once again mention the essential points. In addition to the already existing ones, there will be bilingual local panels or local designation boards for 164 places in lower Carinthia. The 164 places comprise all the towns from the currently in force Topography Regulation, all the towns required by the Constitutional Court of Justice and all villages with more than 17.5 percent of Slovenian-speaking population. There is therefore a very clear, comprehensible and just solution. The basis for the 17.5 percent rule is the 2001 census, which has already been mentioned today. So there are no concessions for villages that are not on the list. This solution will be in the constitutional rank in the future, which is important because it will also ensure that it is a definitive solution without any opening clause. It is important to have finally concluded such an important, sustainable issue and not torpedo it again and again by the citizens who are running. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This finality is immensely important, because it is only in this way that peaceful and mutual-trust-based co-existence between the peoples is possible. The Carinthians do not want a provisional construction here, no provisional construction with expiry date. They want this decade-long struggle to end and both groups of people to live in peace with each other, because both groups are also glowing and confessing Austrians and stand on their homeland. I think this is a very important process, which one must also stress. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should also like to extend my warmest welcome to the Slovenian people's group representatives, because they have also contributed to this memorandum and have spoken in terms of what I would like to mention here as very positive. One must truly express sincere thanks to all those who have supported this process, but of course one must also make it clear to those who are trying to torpedo this placeboard solution that this is a fruitless undertaking. And it is also very strange if, in this context, Mr Valentin Inzko, who is very likely to have this memorandum on 26 March. April 2011 with the liberal state captain Gerhard Dörfler, with Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer and also the other public representatives, has also negotiated with, signed with the People's Group representative Marjan Sturm and with Bernard Sadovnik and presented it to the public, as a result suddenly began to withdraw here and unfortunately in the last few weeks God's storm has also run against this solution, agreed and signed by him, and his memorandum. This Behaviour is not serious! Unfortunately, this must be described as unscrupulous and unresponsible. Here it is kindled, and there you have to say clearly and clearly, we don't want that! But I also hope that it will ultimately come to reason, because the vast majority of Slovenians in Carinthia carry this solution and cannot be affected by isolated snipers. And I can promise you, vice versa, that will not be the case either. We do not want to be a sniper on this issue, but a definitive constitutionally flawless, democratic solution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A very good compromise was reached here, which is acceptable to both sides, together with the Carinthian population, a definitive, positive and sustainable solution that can also be implemented today. And I say, of course, by this success, all those unemployed who have repeatedly tried to live on this issue over the last few decades will now also be unemployed. Carinthia needs a positive energy for the future – also with regard to cooperation with neighbouring countries, which are indeed lived by this state government. But I would also like to ask our Austrian Federal Government to start negotiations with the Slovenian Government on the fact that the German-speaking minority in Slovenia is finally experiencing recognition, because this is also something that should be finally concluded in the sense of a good neighborhood. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's decision provides another important and sustainable evidence that freedom issues of our society and time can be solved in great responsibility for Austria. This also shows the responsibilities we live and where we get involved – and this is good for Austria. It is good for Austria that in the future there will be no running citizens to drive through Carinthian villages in order to compromise or perhaps put an end to this important solution that we have ensured. I would therefore like to thank everyone involved once again, because this is a good solution for Austria, for our home country.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8607	The next step is the club woman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8629	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate guests! Mr Strache, as a native Carinthian, I can put my concept of democracy at the beginning of my remarks. I see in democracy two cornerstones, which one must never look at separately: The law is based on the people, in the sense of the people's participation in an elected parliament, and here the principle of majority applies. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The second pillar, which is also very important in this context, is the guarantee of freedom, fundamental rights and minority rights. They guarantee each individual his/her freedom. And it is one of the most important tasks for democrats to defend these fundamental and minority rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minority protection, which is made dependent on a majority will, nevertheless leads ad absurdum. Majority decisions on fundamental rights, minority rights, are the first step towards an authoritarian state understanding, and that is why this popular survey, as you have formulated it, has been harmful. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Look forward to the majority of the Carinthian population having this!]] The quality of democracy lies in dealing with its minorities. [[Abg. Kickl: And what about minorities at European level? How is it there?]] 56 years after the State Treaty, after ten years of calls by the Constitutional Court, there is finally a solution. It is a late solution for a very, very long failure. And I mean, therefore, that there is no happy mood at all. On the contrary! And I do not think it is possible to speak of a “stern hour. ” And on behalf of the Greens, I say openly: We would have wished the President-in-Office to take a sober look at the situation, this wound, into which political salt has been spread for years and where, so to speak, an association is now being imposed. Even if this wound heals: A scar will be left behind, because after all, the question of the town board was a field of play for years, where political change was also made. Especially during the time when the Republic of Slovenia joined the European Union, the situation has repeatedly been remedied by provocations. And before this backdrop of provocation and population resurgence, no good policy was made in the country of Carinthia, both in the economic situation and in the financial situation. Political corruption has prevailed at this time. And there is no way to hide how this question was abused on the back of the ethnic group. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is great misunderstanding in this regard, and also in other parts of Austria, why the question of topographic designations, as is actually common throughout the civilized world, has led to a long, even decades-long conflict. I can only say to the Greens that in all these years we have repeatedly tried to point out – I call Terezija Stoisits or also Wolfgang Zinggl – these failures in connection with the State Treaty, and that we have repeatedly tried to put pressure on us so that it will come to a solution as soon as possible. We now have a political compromise ahead of us, which is to be cast into constitutional law. This is certainly not the cleanest form of the rule of law, but it is the solution to a question that, without such a political compromise, would probably not have ended even until the centenary of the Carinthian referendum, i.e. in 2020. I acknowledge that we have respect for this solution and that we will vote in favour of it in a majority way. However, this is a long overdue solution, a solution that has not been met with generosity and not with self-understanding, but from a character of pettyness. And as a protest against this pettyness, there will also be three votes against by the Greens in order to point out that again. [[Abg. Kickl: It's a little mental!]] Small-spiritedness and counterfeiting can never be the basis for dealing with our minorities in Austria. I would also like to stress that this discourse – even until the last day – was marked by indifference. I do not know if it is really necessary to make the name of a Slovenian representative the “Unword of the Year. ” I do not think this is appropriate in this situation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's what he has to attribute to himself!]] Indifference, which has shaped this discourse for many years, was not only a symptom of this conflict, but above all its cause. We expect a much more respectful approach to each other, and we also have a certain hope that this political compromise may be the turning point towards a new, more respectful approach to this group of people in Carinthia. However, this compromise also includes some criticisms; I do not want to hide that. There are many criticism points, and sometimes you have to ask yourself why they actually exist. Why is it that localities are randomly removed? I refer to a village where the whole municipality is equipped with bilingual village panels, but only a part of the village is not because this is what a FPK citizen wants. I cannot understand this, and I do not think that such arbitrary pitfalls in constitutional law are appropriate in such a solution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also incomprehensible why our other minorities, the Croatian and Hungarian minority in Burgenland or the Slovenian minority in Styria are not included. This is a direct constitutional right which it meets directly in its situation. And that goes without consideration?- Oh, my God! There is already the question: Why is that? Clean rule of law – you can discuss this for a long time, and there are some who are completely right – looks different when the Constitutional Court has been pronouncing jurisdictions for many years, and then nevertheless a percentage clause beyond these findings is established. [[Abg. Strache: The Constitutional Court is not a legislator, that is the High House! The Constitutional Court is not a legislator!]] – May you listen to me very briefly, Mr. Strache? Modern plurality is also different. Diversity is the strength of a modern society and not a threat. Variety is also the strength of the Carinthian society. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Respect for diversity begins first and foremost with the appreciation of the mother tongue. The mother tongue is something very special. These are the first words we hear as a child, the first words we speak, the language in which we are comforted, the language in which we think, the language in which we dream, the language in which we fall back when we curse when we become very emotional. And that's probably the language that comes up before you die. In this context, I would like to thank you for two wonderful comments by Sibylle Hamann and Doris’ servant points to this appreciation of the mother tongue that is lacking in many questions in Austria – not only in the Carinthian discussion. I would now like to quote from a book by a colleague from the seabed; I am a sea-bodner; there are only a few Carinthian Slovenians there. This book is by Mirko Bogataj; he is the father of a schoolmate of mine. Herbert Kickl may remember that. This is about his daughter's letter to him, to the father. The daughter of Mirko Bogataj was invited by the University of Rennes to give a lecture on the Carinthian Slovenians. She did that, had many listeners. After that, much was still being discussed, and the question came up: “So you speak Slovenian with your parents?” And Mirko Bogataj's daughter had to admit: “No, my mother can’t Slovenian – and my father didn’t teach me. In the area of Carinthia, where we live, there are no Slovenians and no schools where you could have learned the language. I don’t know if my father was ever ashamed of his language.” And she concludes with: “How rich could we be?!” And I would also like to conclude by saying: How rich could we have been? And: How rich could we be?- Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8777	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8799	Ladies and gentlemen! If one has spoken or discussed about the local panel dispute in Carinthia in private or in public, then one has often reaped incomprehensibility and headaches, and one has often equated it with nationalism. I say that very often outside the country of Carinthia have come about out of ignorance preconceptions and preconceptions, without taking a closer look at the history of the country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One thing, ladies and gentlemen, is also quite clear: Hardly any other state of Austria had to endure such a painful history as our country of Carinthia. And hardly any other country has proved as much patriotism, so much fidelity and faith in Austria as the country of Carinthia! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The history of our country Carinthia is therefore a very special one: It is characterized by the events of the last decades. It is characterized by the people, by the cultures, also by the differences of cultures and traditions. But it is mainly characterized by home love and home pride, by pride on what people have done in this country. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] These attributes, home pride and home love, must and cannot be bad. You will find yourself in the mosaic of every individual person, in every single everyday story and every single everyday process of our country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to show you everything that could put us in the corner of nationalism, just because we in Carinthia have a special home love and a particularly strong domestic pride. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] This fidelity to a particularly beautiful federal country was often misinterpreted, misinterpreted, was often misused for party-political discourse and dispute – and this, ladies and gentlemen, was on the back of the clever and diligent Carinthians who really did not deserve it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Outside Carinthia is often tried to give the impression that there are wild conflicts in the context of the local panel dispute. And anyone who has once made the effort to travel to Carinthia, to travel to this beautiful country, which is very much thanks to God on holiday too, will have found that the local panel dispute does not occur in our everyday lives, but that we are very much trying to develop this great country Carinthia, this country, the Carinthia Economic Area, and that also in the media and in the published opinions a completely false picture of Carinthia is often presented. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] It is also the task of politics to correct this false image and to ensure that there is agreement and clarity that in Carinthia the two different groups of the population live together for a long time and not side by side, that they have long found themselves together and that the local panel dispute was only a proxy dispute over many years for a few who wanted to profile on the back of many in Carinthia. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This statement leads to the fact that, since 2002, laborious, long and important discussions have made sure that one has met each other with respect and trust and that this has led to the finding of domestic associations, politics and the Slovenian peoples in a laborious process, having joined each other – as in 2006 already. And to advance the story: In 2006, one was already very close to a solution, but from party-political considerations the SPÖ did not have the courage to give the solution that was found at that time the consent, otherwise we would have a local map solution for four years and would not have to be on it today, at that time we would have found peace in the joint solution. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] What lasts for a long time will finally be good. – Carinthia, ladies and gentlemen, has long been in the 21st century. ==References== Carinthia is today a modern, diverse country in which one can be proud; also a country in which tradition is maintained. Yes, tradition and customs are important elements in this federal state that can be proud of. What should be bad if people love the country and maintain the tradition and customs, ladies and gentlemen? This must not be pushed into the field of small-mindedness, Mrs Colleague. That's not a little spirit, but it's a native pride and home love that we're very proud of in our country. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Carinthia today is characterised by a forward-looking economy, by the technology of the future that takes place in this country, is a great holiday country that presents itself to the people – thanks to the skilled entrepreneurs, thanks to the diligent workers in our country. [[Call the ÖVP:Hypo!]] It is therefore also in our interest, in the interest of the BZÖ, to bring the image of Carinthia – in the interest of the country and in the interest of the Carinthia. That is why we are also in favour of this solution, for this compromise that has been negotiated there. We are responsible for this on the basis of state policy. We do not want to make any party-political change and now we have any deviations from it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] People in our country have deserved peace, they have also earned more attention to the real challenges of the country, because there are a number of misdevelopments in Carinthia, many of the problems that need to be solved. There are many challenges that Carinthian politics has to address, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Let me conclude by thanking Mr Ostermayer. We have also deposited our proposals with him, we have also said our thoughts. He has received this gratefully and has also included it in this compromise. Mr Ostermayer, State Secretary, also deserves our recognition for his work and for the arrival of this compromise. [[In the case of BZÖ, SPÖ and FPÖ, please contact BZÖ, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to say one thing because it has led to the misunderstanding of many in the Austrian population, but above all in Carinthia: the unworthy behaviour of Mr Inzko! This is not a dignified behaviour, especially in connection with his profession as a diplomat. Because of a diplomat who is in the state service, I expect, above all, responsibility, but also fidelity to what he has negotiated, I expect him to stand up to what he has taken! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grosz and Mr Strache]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to focus in the future on the essentials, on the development of our southernmost federal state, in terms of economic growth, employment and, above all, the prosperity of people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8930	Mr Faymann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e8952	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear representatives from Carinthia, the Slovenian Associations! Ladies and gentlemen! The history of Carinthia reflects an important development in Europe. The Caravans were the border between Carinthia and Austria in two World Wars, later a border between communist dictatorships and Western democracies, then a Schengen border and are now the border between two member countries of the European Union. This shows the development of a peace project, which shows the development of a peaceful cooperation in Europe, But this also shows a correct development for which we have to stand today, but which is also to be the foundation for the future of this peace project, which distinguishes us from developments by which we have been all too often divided in the history of Carinthia, in the history of Austria and in the history of Europe, in mutual hatred, yes, in violent conflicts. Carinthia is also a region where the Germanic, Slavonic and Romanic language groups meet. It is understood by many Carinthians as an opportunity and seen as an opportunity, also transformed into an opportunity to make this beautiful federal country with its excellent people even more of what it is already for the Austrians: a particularly beautiful federal country. It is a federal country that seizes these opportunities by focusing on the interdependence and not on the contradiction. This is all the more gratifying than the recognizable desire of a large part of the population to end this infinite history of the town boards and the town panel names. Not only was the desire of the political representatives, who are also particularly grateful, but also a large part of the population to achieve a result in this regard, and is one of the essential prerequisites for a common solution in Carinthia. I am convinced that the conditions for the negotiations were properly chosen. I also made it clear from the beginning: There can be no diktat from Vienna against Carinthia! It was clear from the outset that we do not stand in the way of mutual deadlines for a constructive solution. I am very proud that the one who has conducted the negotiations for us in the Federal Chancellery has led our State Secretary Josef Ostermayer, these negotiations with so much respect, so much patience and so much far-sightedness. I am also grateful that he had partners with whom this was possible – representatives of Carinthia, the head of state of Carinthia, the party officers from Carinthia, the alternates, the representatives of the Slovenian organizations. Only by the fact that the representatives of the Slovenians and the representatives of the Home Associations, the representatives of those who also represent the interest community in these negotiations, met innumerable talks with Dr. Ostermayer and the representatives of the country, was a negotiated outcome in view and only possible. The package, which provides bilingual boards for 164 Kärntner villages, will subsequently also provide for the official language as well as the promotion of bilingual private and municipal kindergartens, music schools and cultural projects. It is therefore about promoting and about the opportunities of diversity and living together. As a permanent solution, only a constitutional solution was possible. Only a constitutional solution offers the possibility of a permanent solution. This is a good compromise, a common way in which many people have contributed. This issue has occupied us for many years, even decades, and today, if you vote in favour – I hope, on the broadest possible basis, by all the parties agree – can be brought to a conclusion. ==References== In June 2011, the government decided on the package – with 164 localities in Carinthia to receive bilingual town boards. I would like to thank the Austrian Chancellor, who is very proud of the fact that once again the commoner was put before the parting party that the common way of co-existing with each other did not allow for a common outcome, as the attitude of those who negotiated was stronger, they wanted to come to a common outcome, contrary to those who have no pleasure in common solutions. The common ground has also shown itself in the way of negotiations. The joint has won in Austria. The conviction that commonness and diversity can exist at the same time in Carinthia is expressed in the second verse of the national anthem, where it is called “my friendly homeland”. – It is therefore an important day for Carinthia, an important day for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e9012	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e9033	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Values Members of the Kärntner state government! Dear guests at the gallery! As a Carinthian, I am accompanied by this unresolved question around the town boards as long as I can remember. She was always present, whether in discussions with friends, in discussions with students, at the political level or simply when driving through the country. The dispute, whether bilingual town boards or not, was so emotionalized that an approach to this topic with a cool head seemed hardly feasible. And yet, in recent years, a lot has changed in Carinthia. For example, the platform “Pro Carinthia/Za Koroško” with the slogan was founded with platforms dealing with each other: “Because we are looking for the future in the future” or the so-called consensus group – representatives are present here – consisting of former counterparts. This group has begun to surprise many of them to work out the past with all the wounds on both sides. It has received great recognition for its good work, not only from the population, but also at local and international level. It has thus received the cultural prize of the city of Villach and also the European Citizens' Prize awarded by the European Parliament. More and more children are registered for bilingual education, as the value of a second national language is now recognized. The advantages of bilingualism are obvious, one can move freely in another culture, thus having a greater impact, and finally multilingualism can bring both professional and economic benefits. Learning a language, however, also belongs to the discussion with the other, the seemingly foreign. Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, this debate has long been taking place in Carinthia, and art and culture play a major role in this. This goes from joint festivals such as the Rosetal Pohaca Festival – which is a delicious sweet food – to the Slovenian Carinthia Song, to great writers, painters, theatre makers, musicians, gallerists of the Slovenian People's Group, who, with their artistic contribution, have done essential for the understanding and making the people's group visible, very often in dialogue with German-speaking artists, but always before bilingual audience. Through them we have also learned that the presence of a second group of people is actually the expression of a privilege, because cultural diversity is simply greater and more colorful. The intercultural competence of the population has slowly overtaken politics silently and quietly and with course. And then again and again, ladies and gentlemen, the tortured local panel dispute, repeatedly abused politically, repeatedly re-increased from the political side. Politically abused, Mr Bucher, by the way, in 2006, there would have been less bilingual settlement boards than today. [[Abg. Street: More even!]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: There was an agreement, that is the decisive!]] In the course of a diploma thesis entitled “Conflict, dialogue, stagnation” by Martin Mittersteiner has shown that the population is considered too minority-disciplinary, although most of the population – and this results from this study – has a neutral to positive attitude towards bilingual local panels. From my point of view, the consistently positive to neutral attitude of the younger people is little surprising. They see no point in continuing the dispute that has lasted for 56 years. They live in an EU without borders. They want to strengthen the Alpine Adria region and work on the most necessary further development and the future of Carinthia. The young people also know about the expandable and great potential that lies in this country. They appreciate the landscaped beauty, its cultural diversity, also made visible through the town panels. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there could have been a more generous solution with a higher number of bilingual town boards, and a part of the population would have supported this. But everyone is involved in a compromise, and everyone has to do it. In order to negotiate such a compromise, it takes toughness and firm conviction that a solution is possible. This is not in big jumps, but in many small steps, and that is sometimes laborious, sometimes light, and sometimes you have to turn an extra loop. I would like to thank, above all, State Secretary Ostermayer and also the Federal Government for this deep inner enthusiasm and persistence for the matter. State Secretary Ostermayer has managed to bring together opposing attitudes so that the necessary legislative text can be formulated. The important partners in Carinthia were, in addition to the affected mayors, Dörfler and Landeshauptmann deputy Peter Kaiser. Their negotiating skills are also a large part of the success. I would like to thank them for that. Ladies and gentlemen! So today the local panel dispute can finally become a placeboard solution, and I hope that there will be great approval here in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e9089	Mr Schüssel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e9111	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes we ask ourselves and have difficulties explaining the real meaning, the deeper meaning of European unification – but this is an absolutely positive example that we can present here today. It is precisely the co-existence of Austria and Slovenia, this neighborhood that has only developed when Slovenia has become part of this larger European Union, that is a significant example of what this European integration idea can do. The same applies to Austria and Italy. These have been bloody conflicts 50 years ago, the bomb nights along the Austrian-Italian border. Or the warlike and warring struggles around Carinthia. That was really about war and peace and vital things. In the First World War, for example: The ringing of Carinthia after the First World War claimed 400 dead, 270 of them on the Carinthian side, and 800 wounded. Then the self-determination, where it went from time to time and under pressure from the Americans, led to the popular vote, which resulted in the yes to Carinthia with almost 60 percent and the yes to Austria – by the way, with the substantial participation of the Carinthian Slovenians; for this you must still be grateful and should not forget. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Bitch.]] Then, in the Second World War – one should not forget these fears either – in 1941, the plans to simply resettle tens of thousands of Carinthian Slovenians. The plan has largely not been implemented thanks to God, but more than 1,000 Carinthian Slovenians have been relocated and have then been replaced by other displaced ones from the Canal or from South Tyrol. There have been incredible things happening during this time. 2 500 Carinthians have become victims of Nazi persecution, and the resistance to the Hitler regime has experienced a great deal in this part of it. And then, in 1945, the opposite: Terror, deportation, murder. Today, mass graves are still being discovered on the Slovenian side, which are thanks to God today, can be prepared at this time – and have to be prepared, because only those who stand up for history and begin to understand it are able to master even present and future. And we should be grateful for that together. I am very pleased that this solution will be possible today. I have also worked for years to ensure that we have such a solution. The state administration 1955 – Wittmann pointed out – is only a very general formulation, since only a mixed-lingual population is spoken of. And only when the Constitutional Court with a new Judicature in 2001 – that was a completely new Judicature! – has made it possible to set up new, additional placeboards, there was a great need for action. And we have put this: We immediately set up the consensus group. And I am still very, very grateful today that we have experienced a living civil and civil society. I would also like to thank the people who have fought again and again – partly unthankfully by some. These were Professor Stefan Karner, who unfortunately cannot be present today due to illness – I really wish him a quick recovery; otherwise he would certainly be here – Marjan Sturm, Bernard Sadovnik – they are present in the hall – that Professor Hofrat Josef Feldner was mentioned, and many others who participated here. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Bitch.]] And of course also the Carinthian politicians. Contrary to what is claimed, the Carinthian politicians – with some up and down – were always very constructive. I would also like to mention the head of state Zernatto, who is also the head of state, Haider and Dörfler, Josef Martinz, Ambrozy, Gaby Schaunig. They all contributed. We have had unanimous decisions in the national government for a very long time in favour of such a consensus. And I am pleased today that some of them have changed their opinion – I cannot hide this quiet smile – because today we have the Constitutional Regulation, which is why Greens and SPÖ did not agree a few years ago, because they meant: No, it's just legal, too. - Okay, today I'm very glad they're on board. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] It would also have been nice, quite honestly, if we had a moderate opening clause, as we did then – with Carinthian consent, please! – had traded, in ir Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. It wouldn't have been bad anyway. And it is important to note that, within the framework of municipal autonomy, it will be possible to establish additional bilingual town boards in the future, if that is what the municipality wants. I think that is very important, and this should be confirmed by us here too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have the hope that a new chapter will be added to this chapter rather than a final one. So that I don't just talk about the town boards: This is about schools, about education – more than 40 percent of Carinthian students are learning Slovenian today, because they know that this is a relay language, a key language to open up the whole Slavonic world; it is indeed a fascinating story, a “Austrian-Reichtum” that becomes visible here – it is about culture, about radio, about television, about the promotion of the various institutions that the ethnic groups have. It's also about the economy. Slovenia – which few people know – is for us Austrians a larger and more important trading partner than Russia or India. This is mentioned here once. Neighborhood, good neighborhood actually means very, very much, and we should maintain and benefit them. That could even be an example for others! The life of the Tyroleans with the Italian-speaking population or the German and Slovenian-speaking Carinthians could be an example of Kosovo, Bosnia and Macedonia. This is possible with this willingness. One last word – I thank the quote Stefan Karner, who found it in a Moscow archive –: The chief rabbi for Carinthia and Styria, David Herzog, who was threatened by the Nazis in 1938 with death by drowning in Mur, has given some spectacular and great sermons, whose stenographic writing is in a Moscow archive, and he has shaped the sentence: Only he who really understood life, who puts trees under whose shadow he will never sit. Ladies and gentlemen! We set and plant such a tree today. May youth benefit from the future! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e9214	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e9235	Mr President. Mr Bundeskanzler with the representatives of the Federal Government! Mr Landeshuptmann with the representation of the Carinthian government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the term “historic day” has been used in the media and also here in Parliament. The presence of diplomats, the Kärntner state government also shows that it is a special day. But whether today's day actually gets this dimension, it's only going to show the future. This will depend very much on how we in Carinthia will deal with this law – I say, with the spirit of this law. Then: It does not depend so much on the placeboard, which is placed at the entrance and at the end of a place, but it is about a relationship between the Carinthian population and the Slovenian minority in daily handling. It is about how we create daily life between the minority and the majority. And that is why it is also right and important that the official language system has been dealt with with with with the issue of the local boards and has been decided once and for all. We all have a very great responsibility. As a Carinthian, I have to demand, above all, the responsibility of the Catholic Church and the Church in Carinthia, for it has in the past contributed very much to the abuse of the Carinthian population by holding Slovenian services at funerals and similar. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate call of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] [[Abg. ==References====External links== Dr. Moser) They got German-speaking families in Carinthia! That was the horrific one!]] High Parliament! Today, 56 years after the State Treaty, we jointly conclude a chapter of history that was marked by tragic fates on both sides – the Carinthian population and the Slovenian minority – which was characterized by mistrust, provocations – for finally it was also a provocation that a Slovenian representative was rushed through a village at an increased speed and the Constitutional Court had taken the occasion to repeal the law. However, it was also marked by the honest effort of many people in public life to find an acceptable and lasting solution to the conflict for both sides. I here call Federal Chancellor Bruno Kreisky, who in 1967 already found here in Parliament that Article 7 of the State Treaty is fulfilled and that necessary benefits to the minority were not necessary. I call the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider, who, together with the then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, was already very far off in an agreement, but failed due to the resistance of the SPÖ. And above all, I call the head of state Gerhard Dörfler, who has succeeded in negotiating the People's Group Act to be decided today together with State Secretary Ostermayer and in presenting it to Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Landeshuptmann! Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! Together they have proved very great skill, but especially sense for the Carinthian soul. Mr State Secretary, in Carinthia, it is traditional that we carry a so-called Carinthian truffle on historical or important occasions. I have infected it here today, my colleagues from the Freedom Party from Carinthia, too. We carry it at weddings, we carry it at the Villacher Church Day, we carry it on the occasion of the 10th anniversary. October. I'm telling you symbolically that you understood the Carinthian soul with a Carinthian straußerl thank you. – The Kärntner suit will surely be handed over by the head of state. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] [[The speaker presented the said Carinthia-Straußerl to State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer.]] It is a political solution in which all the constructive forces have moved together and a common path. Many, both representatives of the minority and also of the political parties, have leaped over their shadows. It is all the more regrettable that – the historic day was actually that of signing the so-called Memorandum – after this signature, where all the representatives of the Slovenian groups, where all the political parties have signed, a group, the Council of the Carinthian Slovenians, has been re-elected under the leadership of a diplomat, Valentin Inzko. However, it is actually a historic day today, because, especially through the decision in the constitutional order and through the approval of all political parties, it is once and for all clear that the Article 7 of the State Treaty concerning the Topography Regulation, with regard to the official language is once and for all fulfilled and no further claims from the Slovenians and from the minority can be made or sued. High house! To understand the Carinthians, you need to know the history of the country. The historical consciousness of Carinthia is characterized by the countless acts of aggression of the South Slavs with the support of the Carinthian national Slovenians, such as the military occupation and the call for the resignation of large parts of our country in 1918 after the collapse of the monarchy, the deportations and the mass murders of the loyal population of the border country after the end of the war in 1945. Defense and popular elections formed one of the most important sections of the country's more than a thousand years of history, because the Carinthian population has known itself twice on its own initiative – once in the way of the military defence struggle, once in the context of the democratic act of referendum – to Carinthia and thus to the Republic of Austria and has made a significant contribution to the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The then Federal Government wrote in a telegram: “We will never forget that”! – This tradition, this experienced one is a pillar and proud dignity of our history. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that Carinthia and Austria, the Republic of Austria, have made an exemplary minority policy and are constantly developing it. That is not what I am saying, in the course of the sanctions, a Commission of the European Court of Human Rights led by Martti Ahtisaari, Jochen Frowin and Marcelino Oreja. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] They said that Austria has a role to play in supporting minorities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll finish. – The same attention, the same rights, but also the same support we want and I ask Slovenia to support the German-speaking minority in our neighboring country.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e9337	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. – Mr President, your speaking time has far exceeded! [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: (continuation without microphone) I believe that this day will open the future for...!]] Please comply with the agreed speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e9386	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! It may already be that the topic of local panels in Austria is very much on the nerves. I can understand. But we all know, of course, that it's not really and not just about these town boards. In fact, it is about the fact that for 56 years, i.e. since the State Treaty, this State Treaty has not been fulfilled in an essential point, namely the rights of minorities. In Austria, minorities must fight day by day for every single one of these rights, which could have been granted them very easily. And this is really the problem we have, not the local panels, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today, we will adopt a Constitutional Act that makes these rights clearer – that is already good – and thus also interprets the State Treaty. But We must also bear in mind that a negotiation process is under way before the law is passed and that this interpretation of the State Treaty is therefore a political one and not a legal one. The State Treaty was also interpreted by law: with countless constitutional court findings, which unfortunately have not been implemented to a large extent to this day. And this is very sad that top courts find so little recognition. That is what we must say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today's compromise had to be achieved in truth because the Constitution was not observed in Carinthia and because the state was unable to secure this Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. He has watched how almost cynically the minority rights in Carinthia were repeatedly trampled on feet. I can only remind you that there were tables mounted on the town boards, on which it was then established in Slovenian, as the places were to be referred to, or also on the rapture. This may have prepared fun and joy for those who wanted it, but it is not respect for minorities. Granted, Mr State Secretary, in this climate it was extremely difficult to find a compromise, to bring everyone to a negotiating table and actually to propose a solution that is half acceptable, but you have succeeded. Nor do we want to hold back with the appropriate praise at all, but that we no longer agree to change ladies and gentlemen as the Constitution, just because it has not been followed, that is no reason for euphoria. I don't think you can talk about a famous story in this regard. It is, Mr President-in-Office, that you should watch any television screen, even no star-hours! That must be said. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Even now, only the most necessary thing is given to the ethnic groups. This is not a generous solution, as the Constitutional Court has also asked, but it is the minimum – and not even that. Considering that a village like Dobein with a Slovenian-speaking population of 20 to 25 percent has not been included in the list of bilingual town boards, just because the mayor of freedom has negotiated it out there, and that now receives constitutional status, then there is something wrong. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also surprising, Mr State Secretary – with all sympathy and respect – that you go to the public and say that with the new law everything the Constitutional Court has demanded was implemented, knowing that in the year 2000 the Constitutional Court recognized that the official languages should be transferred to the communities. What does that mean? – That in a community when Slovenian is used as an official language that has to be applied throughout the municipality area. What does the situation look like? – There are exceptions in St. Kanzian and in Eberndorf, and that does not correspond to what you have said in public. It is these pitfalls – Mr Eva Glavischnig has already mentioned this – to agree to these inequalities, which are so uncircumstanced and why we have great problems. I therefore propose a new amendment. It will be distributed and hopefully will be negotiated because it takes into account exactly what I have just mentioned. All in all, we believe that this law is pointing in the right direction. There is a very central and important reason for most of us to agree: It is now necessary to end the discussion on the plates of sheet metal, on the plates of the place as plates of sheet metal, so that the real problems can be raised and thus a support for the Slovenian language, the Slovenian culture and education can take place as an independence in Carinthia, so that these things can be more discussed. Not living together, but because of the differences, the foreign exchange is. I hope that's a kind of start-up now. May this exercise succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e9485	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e9506	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! [[In the direction of gallery:]] Mr. Landeshuptmann! Ladies and gentlemen! I can also say as a Carinthian that I am the following conviction: I do not believe that people want more bilingual village boards in Carinthia, especially in the affected area in southern Carinthia, but I believe that people want peace, peace between the peoples, peace in southern Carinthia. That is also the crucial reason for us from the BZÖ to support this solution, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, we, which we in Carinthia have a political focus, could have said, for party-tactic reasons – as the SPÖ did in 2006 – that we do not agree. But we have our political responsibility, we have our responsibility for Carinthia and we therefore agree to this solution, because we have also included key points that were important to us in this local map law, two of which I may mention in the following examples. First point: This is a definitive solution by constitutional law. That is to say, the peace between the peoples we want is guaranteed. Second point: Peace is therefore ensured because no opening clause is anchored. This is a very central point, because that means that this dispute cannot be continued indefinitely, but that peace that I have spoken about. [[OBJECTIVES]] One thing I can say to the Austrians, who in recent years have often also met with misunderstandings of this dispute, to the explanation that such a delicate, such a difficult topic has occupied us for over 50 years: This is not about plates, ladies and gentlemen. If you reduce the question of the placeboard on sheet plates, you didn't understand the question of the placeboard. The question is about history and also about suffering. It is about conflict, and it is about the struggle for freedom that the Carinthians fought in a defense campaign between 1918 and 1920 and thus defended their homeland and also Austria, ladies and gentlemen! We must not forget this great achievement for the Republic of Austria, and today we want to thank this generation for its commitment to its Carinthian homeland, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to stress that today is not the decisive day for me. Some have spoken here of a “feiertag, ” of a “historical moment. ” This is not the case for me today. It is very easy to pass a law in Vienna, the other and decisive, ladies and gentlemen, is that local people, in the affected bilingual communities, must live with this solution. The decisive thing is that the great success will depend on whether the people on the spot, in the bilingual area, carry this solution. Only then have we achieved a historical achievement, only then can we say that the local panel question is solved, ladies and gentlemen! People are at the heart of the law – and not any law paragraphs. It is also people who have been affected for decades by this people's conflict. Carinthia – and I would like to say that too – is not a kind of political curiosum in Europe, as it has been repeatedly described, “the one down there in Carinthia with its local panel dispute”, but let’s look at Europe, let’s look at the conflicts of the ethnic groups. In Belgium, the conflict between the flames and the Wallonias leads to a division of state. In Spain there is the Basque conflict. In South Tyrol too there was a Taferl fight again. In France, there have been conflicts with the crusts for decades. Or even in Slovenia, the old Austrians still have to fight for their rights, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Carinthia is not a curiosum, but there are conflicts wherever different groups of people have to live together. To resolve these conflicts will be the central task of the future. Setting up the plates is only the first part. The crucial part is that in the daily life of the peoples of this peace between the peoples, the successive promotion of a people's group and the disadvantage of the Austrian peoples in the field of promotion, association and many other things are being ended. This is what people in southern Carinthia are working on, and this is also the reason why many people in southern Carinthia are likely to observe this decision with some confidence, but also with concern. They rightly expect this law to be seen more widely and comprehensively in the daily life of people. That is, I think we also have a number of tasks in front of us to improve the co-existence between the two groups. In this context, the head of state is also called upon, as I believe, to understand. Only then, ladies and gentlemen, have we finally resolved this local panel conflict. I would also like to remind you of one thing, because here – and I would like to say this at the end – political outrages in recent years have also been discussed over and over again. The first head of state – and this must not be forgotten even today – was the first head of state to comply with the local board law of 1977 in 2005, the head of state was Dr. Jörg Haider. This too must be recognized and honoured today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No red, no black head of state in front of Jörg Haider has implemented an existing law from 1977, ladies and gentlemen! It was the head of state Jörg Haider, who helped the people to their right. Because we believe – in conclusion and in our amendment – that this is a very sensitive question, especially for the people concerned on the ground, that the law is the one, but the practical implementation of the other, we think, that implementation by stage plan would be smarter compared to an immediate layout – as did Kreisky in 1972. Such a level plan has already been developed by the consensus group under Schüssel/Karner. We would like to propose this stage plan with the following request, which I can now make: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Voices In the interests of the peaceful co-existence of both groups of peoples in southern Carinthia! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e9656	This amendment is just as much like the amendment tabled by Mr Zinggl earlier, which is now being distributed, in negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11097	Next speaker: Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11118	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Estimated visitors! You can turn it and turn it around as you want – this is today a decision that is an end to a process that lasted from May 1955 to July 2011. It is already remarkable that we can make such a decision in the House today. Many stages in the past have really been able to say goodbye to this solution in the House today by a corresponding majority. I would like to thank all those who have contributed for the past. This was a solution after a local storm in 2006, when a proposal was put on the table under the leadership of Federal Chancellor Schüssel, which brought movement into the matter. This was a proposal by German Chancellor Gusenbauer, who, a few years later, tried to bring movement into this matter with amendments. And this is a decision that can really be seen. I see in this the possibility of a new beginning for Carinthia in the neighborhood, free from a stressful question that has for years thrown a shadow over the relationship with the neighbouring country, and I welcome this extraordinaryly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, I would also like to clarify the following: Of course, minority rights, as laid down in the State Treaty, continue to apply. It is precisely what the question of the exercise of one's own language, one's own culture, is the rights which must still be respected by those concerned, which we, as a state, are happy to guarantee for the future. It is also clear to me – and this is what I would like to say today – that this solution to the issue of the local panel in Carinthia does not affect the rights of the other ethnic groups. I should like to make one more point, because there must be no doubt about it. People's rights, which we have for the Slovenians, for the Croatians, for Hungary, but also for the Czechs and Slovaks and for the Roma, remain true. It is important for us to guarantee that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank the third, ladies and gentlemen, very much those who are primarily responsible for the fact that this process could now be concluded. From the Federal Government it was Mr. State Secretary Josef Ostermayer who presented this hub of communication. I would also like to thank you, dear Joseph, for, in fact, it sounds simple to say, there were thousands of stones that had to be rolled out of the way, hundreds of visits, discussions with many parties that have led to a solution on the table. Therefore, great recognition for your work, which must be fully appreciated in the interest of this federal government and of this country! [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] However, I would also like to express my respect for the Carinthian negotiators, especially Mr Landeshuptmann Gerhard Dörfler, with whom I myself have held a number of conferences on this issue. From the beginning to the end the will to find a solution was not easy. I should like to pay tribute to this debate today. I think it was a very essential impulse that all Carinthia, that the head of state, that all the political parties in Carinthia had taken on one strand. My great recognition for this too! This too must be honoured – by everyone here in this House. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank the Slovenian associations very much; two are here today, one is missing. I would like to focus on this will to come to a solution after so many years and then to be in the final, but I also have to say one thing: Valentin Inzko played a very positive role in this process. He must not now be accused of representing the interests of his association. He doesn't deserve that. I'd like to make that clear here. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as Foreign Minister of the Republic, I have held dozens of talks not only with my colleague Samuel Žbogar from Slovenia, but also with the President of the State of Slovenia, in the two and a half years since I held this office. There were many encounters on this issue, and I am very glad that today we can end this chapter, which is quite controversial. This morning I telephoned again with the Foreign Minister of Slovenia and informed him of what is available in Parliament today for decision-making. He too has a debate on this today in the Slovenian Parliament, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I have informed him of the situation, but I have also informed him of the following: If we decide to do so today, this is an important sign of fulfilling the State Treaty and of overcoming obstacles in bilateral relations that have occurred in the past. However, we also expect Slovenia – and I would like to make this clear in this debate – to be supported by the Slovenian Government in the future on the issue of the old-Austrian minorities, the Gottscheer, the South Styria. They also want to preserve their language and culture. It is legitimate for us to demand that of Slovenia. [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I should like to focus once again on what this solution actually represents: an end to a process that has lasted a long time; a clear regulation within the meaning of the State Treaty; but also a new beginning with the neighbouring country of Slovenia. We need cooperation in the future. I believe that from today we should see a good bilateral relationship in the future, in the regional association, in the association of the Republic of Austria with the Republic of Slovenia. I think we've done a piece now that we can be quite proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11206	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11227	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! [[In the direction of gallery:]] Appreciate Mr Landeshupt. Estimated members of the Kärntner state government! Ambassador! Estimated Slovenian representatives! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen! But also dear Carinthians at home on the remote screens! Today we write history here – both for Austria and especially for our Carinthian homeland. After 56 years, as some times mentioned, it came on the evening of 26. April 2011 as a historical event for us Carinthia in the so-called local panel conflict, a conflict that was considered by most of the Austrians, especially outside our federal state and also abroad, with great misunderstanding. After many, many negotiations and after a final eight-hour negotiating marathon between the chief negotiator State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer, our head of state Gerhard Dörfler and the three Slovenian organizations, a package solution was established, in which all participants had to break off their original demands, but in the end everyone had the common goal: to reach a compromise on this issue. This compromise capacity was then also the key to agreement. Thus, this great goal of putting together the common, the single person before the separator, was carried by all participants. The historic compromise of 164 bilingual town boards and a compromise formula for Slovenian as an official language were reached. However, it is crucial to resolve this issue that there are no losers and defeated, but only one winner: our home country Carinthia and the people who live there. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] No one, neither the German-speaking Carinthian population nor the Slovenian-speaking Carinthian population, must be afraid by today's decision-making now or in the future to lose its identity in the common Carinthian home. Therefore, the recent negative votes that wanted to prevent this solution once again and torpede today's decision were incomprehensible to all of us, because after the historic handshake and signature under this Treaty, Mr. Ambassador Inzko also noted that a chapter of the Carinthian history has been closed and a new chapter can and should begin. I hope he's still standing on this statement today. However, I would particularly like to congratulate our President, our Federal Chancellor, especially Mr Ostermayer, our head of state, Mr Dörfler, and the two Slovenian representatives, Mr Marjan Sturm and Mr Bernard Sadovnik, warmly, and thank them for their commitment to this compromise, that, despite the interlocutory calls, they have not given in and continue to stand up for this decision. – Thank you very much for this sincere attitude! [[He also welcomed SPÖ and FPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] Verbal derailments and still the provoking of dissatisfaction and hatred, the insistence in rigid and outdated patterns of thought, all this is to condemn and reject, no matter from whatever side it may come. The Carinthian population didn't deserve it! The people in our federal state have the nose full of these cross-drivers, hetzers and professional troublemakers. Our population wants to live together in peace and peace, especially in mutual respect, and to cope with the challenges of the future together. There has been a great consensus between all parties represented in the Carinthian Landtag, the Slovenian organisations and all relevant representatives of public life in Carinthia in order to reach this compromise. Therefore, Mr Klubobmann Strache, I do not think it is all right that you are here for yourself and for your ÖVP – FPÖ! [[Abg. There you are at the wrong party!]] – so to speak, want to put the blue feather on the hat and act as if the FPÖ had made this compromise in Carinthia alone. [[Abg. Strache: I said the head of state and Mr Ostermayer!]] Nevertheless, recognition for our head of state, who did not have it easy, for he also had to prevail in his own ranks in order to be able to negotiate this compromise. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: How do you know that?]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) After handing over a Carinthian straußerl to our Secretary of State for his merits, Mr Strutz, on behalf of the Carinthian SPÖ, who made a significant contribution to this decision, I would like to ask that the Carinthian state government give our Secretary of State Ostermayer a high country order for his merits. Dear Josef Ostermayer, I hope you'll give me the right.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11314	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11335	==References====External links== ==References====External links== Today we can say: As our Secretary of State Ostermayer has said, “Kärnten is free from the local panel conflict. – Thank you in the name of the Carinthian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11363	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11384	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It was almost on the day exactly 11 years ago, on 7th. In July 2000, when the National Council unanimously decided on a proposal from the Schüssel Government to extend the federal constitution to include a state objective and the National Council decided that the Republic should acknowledge the growing linguistic and cultural diversity of the constitution carried by the indigenous groups. ‘Language and culture, inventory and conservation of these groups shall be respected, safeguarded and promoted.’ Now, eleven years later, with today's decision-making, one can certainly say that it will be possible in Carinthia to sign out this state target 164 times. It is good, it is very good that this decision will be taken today, 11 years later, here – and again – by all the political groups. But one thing is to say: Of course, we could have had that much earlier. ==References== In July 2006, the head of the Carinthian SPÖ appealed to her party friends in Vienna about her press service: ‘Require the Federal SPÖ to accept proposal Schüssels’. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Where's that?]] Here it stands, in the broadcast of Gaby Schunig. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] I'll be happy to hand it over to you afterwards. I assume that's true, what's in the SPÖ press service. And this call did not meet the Federal SPÖ at the time. I am pleased – some things need just some time – that it is possible here today to actually achieve this constitutional majority, because today's outcome is not so far from what the consensus group under university professor Stefan Karner suggested at that time. This was carried by the Slovenian associations, from Bernd Sadovnik, who is also present here today, to the head of the Carinthian Home Service. What Professor Stefan Karner had planned at that time was a solution with 158 local panels. Now we have 164. So the foundation was already created at the time. To this end, we must say: Of course, such a solution can always only be a compromise. I already understand minority representatives who, of course, have been fighting for a 100% solution for decades, when it is difficult for them to support such a solution. But I have little understanding of the fact that if an internationally regarded diplomat is immediately beaten down here, it makes his name the unword of the year, because he has not always acted the way you have imagined it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Straw: Wordbreaky!]] Mr Klubobmann Strache, in addition to all the merits I do not want to agree with the head of state of Carinthia Gerhard Dörfler at all, I would like to say one thing: To have a diplomat with such a dictum, is it a contribution to a good relationship in the future? [[Abg. Strache: If you're word-breeding, that's never a good contribution! If you sign the memorandum and then withdraw, it's not serious!]] I believe that this should be noted here, because Europe, Mr Klubobmann Strache, must continue to grow together in its diversity, and there can be a special bridge function for minorities. We should also see this as an opportunity for Austria, if I am thinking here of the Hungarian minority, of the Croatian minority in the Burgenland and also of the Slovenian minority, which is indeed a wealth for the Republic of Austria. And as a steirer, I'll tell you: There are not only the Carinthian Slovenians, but there is also a Slovenian minority in the Styria, though very small in numbers. There's one thing you need to see: In the European Union, short-term apart spaces have the chance to grow together again where there is much common for centuries, partly over millenniums. And, of course, there has always been a German-speaking citizenship in present-day Slovenian municipalities, whether in Pettau or in Marburg. On the other hand, it's at the now Styrian-Sloven border... – That's exactly what I want to say. [[Abg. Strache: Hopefully they will be recognized once!]] – Of course, on the border on our side there have also been farmers in the Styria Slovenian speaking region. There are letters from priests – from the 1920s of the last century – in which they complain that there are only a few in their parishes who can also write German. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Now we have the opportunity to work together and build this common peaceful Europe. There can be a special role for minorities. I am pleased that we today have such a broad agreement to this solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11479	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11500	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Landeshuptmann, dear representatives of the Carinthian government! Dear Carinthians here in plenary and especially at home in front of the screens! Mrs Plassnik spoke today about her homeland, about her home country, and also wanted to surround the Carinthian home song. Mrs Colleagues, you know that we recently met in the Industrial Union, where you said you were living in Burgenland, because the way to Carinthia is too far away. [[Abg. Dr. Plassnik: I didn't say! This is a lie!]] – Mrs Colleague! The way to home is never too far from me, because I mean it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Much has already been reported about the past and listed: the fight for defense, the referendum, the partisan struggles. [[Abg. Head: Sit down! It's enough!]] When one lets the revision happen, one also understands why the Carinthians have different access to this subject and have much more emotional connection than it has been brought from the outside. There have been many attempts to put the issue of local boards to solve the issue of state treaty legally on good legs – all attempts have failed. They have gone so far that in the 1970s there was even the town panel tower, up to bombs. Why have they failed? – Because the same mistake has always been made: The population has not been involved, it has not been made clear to the Carinthian population on this issue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But: Everything has its time. I believe that our head of state Gerhard Dörfler, together with State Secretary Josef Ostermayer, has recognized this in good time, and both have done their utmost to resolve this issue. The fact that the head of state issued the foreign exchange to the majority of the Carinthian population and the Slovenian minority, we meet in the middle, there must be no winners and no losers, so we were already on the right track. These two men, the Secretary of State and the Head of State, then made themselves unagitated, solution-oriented, with mutual respect and mutual trust in the matter, and they managed to involve all those involved: the three Slovenian associations, the Carinthian majority, the mayors of the affected communities, but also the Freedom Party in Carinthia, the SPÖ and the ÖVP. All were ready to take the theme, and are behind it. And then for me the really important point came in this whole process: The negotiated package, although opposed to the votes of the other Carinthian parties, was presented to the Carinthian population only on our business and thus offered the Carinthian population the opportunity to vote, decide and take part in the subject. I just asked a colleague from the ÖVP: How will it be in Carinthia now? Will there be disputes in setting up the town boards? – I do not believe this because the population has had the opportunity to vote and to join in. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am also convinced that, with this two-thirds agreement in Carinthia, we have finally resolved the issue of local boards and topography regulations, although experts also claim that with the downturn of the Council of Carinthian Slovenians under Valentin Inzko the dispute is prolonged, there will again be disputes. I hope these critics, these pessimists are wrong, I hope that we will have this issue once and for all on the agenda in Carinthia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From my side a warm thank you to all those who have contributed to the solution of this problem: the Carinthian population, minority like majority, the parties, especially our country party chairman of the Carinthian Liberationary Uwe Scheuch, who has played a very important and positive role in the background, you, dear Secretary of State Ostermayer. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Call the ÖVP: Where is he?]] Orders are important, but much more beautiful will become a good jause in Carinthias below. I'm convinced of that. And last but not least, dear Gerhard Dörfler, thank you very much. I think we can be happy in Carinthia to have dealt with this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11598	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11619	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen. Seers here in the house and at home! The previous speakers of my group have already mentioned that we see this novelle as a step in the right direction as a step towards a respectful co-existence with the Slovenian People's Group in Carinthia. – We recognize that. However, it has also been mentioned that there is still enough criticism of this novel and that, as a club, we will not vote unanimously in favour of this change. There will be three symbolic votes against from the Greens. As a Burgenlander, I'll be one of them. This law concerns not only the Slovenian people in Carinthia, but all the ethnic groups, including the Croatians in Burgenland, Hungary in Burgenland and the Slovenians in Styria. They are equally directly affected by the State Treaty, which is equally affected by this local system and by the official language system. However, they were not involved in the negotiations. They were presented with completed facts and, because there was no review, could not even give opinions on this law. Only the title of the Memorandum says that this is about measures for cooperation with the Slovenian People's Group. Further down in the text, it says that all ethnic groups should be involved. – And that just didn't happen! The Burgenland-Kroats, the Hungary, the Slovenians in Styria had no way to do this. It's been decided over their heads. I find that to be a matter of political concern to democracy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This non-integration is also reflected in the law. For example, the question of the missing bilingual town boards in the Burgenland in Reinersdorf, Hackerberg, Heugraben and Eisenhüttl is not settled. The question of the use of the second official language in municipalities is also open. Municipalities can delegate bilingual concerns to the district headquarters. This may well have an impact on the use of the folk group language in everyday life, because if I want to have a building notice from my community, but this can be outsourced to the bra, I don't think someone will go to the bra, just to get a building note in Croatian. This, of course, means that popular languages are simply less used. We want the rights of minorities to be strengthened. I think diversity is a huge strength. As a Burgenlander, I can say that, although I myself do not speak Croatian or Hungarian, which I am very sorry for, but I think that is a great potential and a great opportunity. That is why we should also strengthen this for the future and ensure that the people's group representatives, who are committed to these rights, are strong enough to ensure that this strength is preserved as well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is why Mr Zinggl has tabled a further amendment which is designed to remedy this current failure and to help the Burgenland-Kro Ate and Hungary were also involved in the Burgenland, and the question of the local board and the official language system could also be answered simply by law. If that changes, then we will agree. If we do not agree to this, there will also be no unanimous consent from us to this law, because we do not play part in changing constitutional decisions across the minds of those concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11683	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11704	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! As one of the Members of this House who has grown up from Carinthia, from the bilingual area, and is still living there today, I have, of course, often been confronted with this question. And there has also very often been a lack of understanding of how we deal with the solution to the people's question in Carinthia. Of course, the question of the town boards was always suggested. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What the Burgenländer can do, you can do in Carinthia, and so on. A closer look at it shows that there are historically growing differences. The Burgenland has never had violations of the Croatians who have claimed property. In Carinthia this was a bit different, there was the Carinthian defense fight, in which at the time many of the Carinthian Slovenians were on the other side and did not fight for Austria. - That's one. [[Abg. Oil:... Hungary!]] There has then been a referendum, which clearly went out for Austria in Zone A. The Vienna also wrote: We never forget that to the Carinthians! After the Second World War, there were again property rights of the Tito-Partisans. That is just what is anchored in the minds of the population, and we must also know that on this issue. I have to say, you just need some time to get there. Living together in Carinthia between representatives or members of the ethnic group and the majority of the population is no problem at all. I am 57 years old and have never seen a problem within the population, but it was rather a problem of certain officials, both of the people's group organisations and of home associations. They have approached something, and I also have to say that I have had many conversations with the chairman of the Central Association and also with the chairman of the community of the Carinthian Slovenians – they are both here today – and there have been good conversations. It is then said that everyone does not go there, and in the Council of the Carinthian Slovenians, it is probably not all but individuals who in the past have repeatedly tried with certain fires that are now still trying to torpedo this People's Group law. In the same way, this applies to certain student organizations, which were founded on 5 October. In June here in the High House protested and threw down leaflets that said: No to this revision of the People's Group Law, for the full fulfillment of Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty! On the other hand, they protested and called for protest. I am also in favour of fully complying with the State Treaty and Article 7, and the majority here in the House, probably, too. That's what we're all for. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'm glad there was a leak. I would also like to thank all those who have contributed to this. Until the end, it was inconclusive: Are there any changes or not? What's going on, what's wrong, what's going on? – In any case, these 164 places in 24 municipalities will be able to live with this solution to the local panel question. But the People's Group Law is much more. The concerns and swirling of the Council of the Carinthian Slovenians do not surprise me because of the activities and actions of individual officials in the past. Some have contributed to this. It was the former National Council President Khol, who gave the Council to the Carinthian Slovenians in the Catholic Education Office in Tainach: Just drive a little too fast into the villages, then the Constitutional Court has to take care of it, and then you can go through it practically there! [[Abg. Strache: That was the fast-paced vouk!]] This has once been a gross mistake, you should not forget that either. What the Constitutional Court of First Instance said on this question: If someone travels five or six times too fast into a place and repays self-advertising, then the driver's license is actually taken away, because the town board is international, that has nothing to do with language knowledge, but with the road traffic regulations! In addition, these persons can be better German than any other, I have to say that. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. Strache: The driver's license would have to be withdrawn!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, I believe that, by this side, by certain officials of the Council of the Carinthian Slovenians, a final solution to the People's Group Law has not been sought, but it is only about having opportunities to create new demands and to implement its own power policy in this area. This was, I believe, the aim of the Council of the Carinthian Slovenians, with demands such as those for inscriptions on public buildings and on signposts, also not so prominent as to include corridors and mountain names. It's only about more resources! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. Especially in Carinthia, with the School and Kindergarten Act, we have pursued an exemplary popular policy. An empirical survey by the Federal Chancellery revealed that the academic rate in the population is 11 percent, in the total population at 6.5 percent. So there has been a lot of evidence there. The question of the town boards is only suggested. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to say one thing: a similar support for the Austrian groups also in Slovenia, as we grant them to the Austrian Slovenians in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11817	Mr Ostermayer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11838	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear friends and negotiators at the gallery! Much has now been said about the past – no wonder on a subject that goes back so far in history. I was able to live up to this in the many conversations I had there. There were many interlocutors, negotiators involved, who also had to suffer severe personal fates in their families, with their families, so of course it was also a matter of how to deal with such traumatizations. I believe that after this time – about two years ago, the Federal Chancellor commissioned me to take care of this issue – we have jointly found a solution that can be described as the best solution in this context. It is not only the question of solving the problems of the past, that is, the issue of solving the large symbol, but also the question of solving the problem – it is also contained in the memorandum, which we discussed on 26 March. signed April –: What can we do for the people's group, for the bilingualism in Carinthia – that was the main theme of the negotiation, but I also come to speak to the Burgenlandcroats and Hungarians – what can we do for bilingualism? Today we are talking about the topic of local boards, that is, technical “topographical inscriptions”, as they have stated in the State Treaty, and about the official language. On Friday, we are talking about promoting the so-called voting donation, bilingual music school, bilingual kindergartens, community kindergartens, private kindergartens, cultural initiatives et cetera. On today's topic: All the solutions that have been found in the past and which have not been found by a majority of parliamentarians have been planned for fewer and less local panels. The solution we have now negotiated is the one with most of the town boards. 141, 158, 163 local panels were proposals for solutions from the past, we landed at 164 – I admit, even more than I expected. In November of last year, I said that the solution will take place between 141 and 163. We were able to reach 164 in very, very long, even physically strenuous negotiations. There are localities in 24 municipalities with a population larger than with all previous solutions. In the official language too, we have found a solution that is more generous than anything else. It is perfectly clear that it is a political compromise. Our problem or our topic was to find a solution based on certain principles established by the Constitutional Court, but also one that is widely borne and which here too finds a constitutional majority. We wanted to solve it constitutionally because we see two problems. Constitutional law means, so to speak, gratifying an Ural dispute, an Ural conflict, but also creating security, including security for the Slovenian minority, for the Slovenian people in Carinthia, for even if the population dropped, and then these tables that are now being established will remain. However, we have also seen a technical problem of the Administrative Court. It was a point that the Slovenian People's Group did not want to have a minority register, for a variety of reasons that one cannot now discuss in the short of time. This, of course, leads the Constitutional Court to have an ever weaker basis for making informed decisions. That is why it is also a very wise decision and, in my opinion, a truly wonderful solution, which we have then signed in the Memorandum, which is more comprehensive and which concerns not only the past, but also the future. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my express thanks to the co-negotiators, the co-negotiators, so to speak. I am, however, dealing with Chancellor Faymann; as said two years ago, he almost commissioned me and gave me the confidence to accept me on this issue. He made several proposals, a proposal was – it has already been mentioned – to give himself time. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] 2012 was mentioned as a target; this was a bit criticized at the beginning. The second was not to make round tables, conclaves or whatever. These had not led to any final result, so there were conversations in a row. Thank you for that! I would also like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Neugebauer: closing point!]] – I do it very briefly; I am already told that I am speaking too long. Mr. Vice-Chancellor was my interlocutor in the government. Now I do it very quickly: Thanks to state captain Dörfler and Peter Kaiser! The head of state was a wonderful interlocutor and has gone a long way, Peter Kaiser has supported me with the mayors. I would also like to express my express thanks to all the mayors, and of course to Marjan Sturm and Bernhard Sadovnik, also members of the consensus group, who also did a lot and good. All the other politicians, interlocutors and so on, I will not be able to list them soon. I ask you: Voices You agree to this law! Five parties are there as I have heard. On the arguments mentioned: We talked to the Croats. We talked to Hungary; I spoke to Hungary on Monday. There is another process to modernise the People's Group Law until autumn or winter, where everyone is involved. I ask you for support and thank you very much! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11892	For the last round of speakers in the television period, 3.30 minutes per speech is available; I ask you to comply with this. Mr Kirchgatterer has come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11920	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! The broad applause for the Secretary of State shows that the new People's Group Act of the Republic of Austria is doing well, that Carinthian Slovenians are doing well, that Carinthia is doing well, and that all Austrian groups – mentioned by name – are doing well. A compromise has been reached on a broad basis and in broad cooperation, which has a lasting effect and is of historical importance. This compromise is in line with Article 7 of the 1955 State Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen! This Decision also provides a view for a positive future, for further development opportunities. People's talks continue on economics, education and justice. It is a personal concern – and today is a very good one, in my opinion the best reason for it – to thank the federal states for their support for the groups, but also the President of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Heinz Fischer for his clear attitude! Ladies and gentlemen! The first half of the last century was anything but a period of peace – not even for Carinthia, nor for the Carinthian Slovenians. In 1938, with the invasion of Nazi Germany, the Carinthian Slovenians lost their minority rights, targeted persecution and relocation. All crimes and all sacrifices must be remembered! After the First World War, 1920, 40 percent of Carinthian Slovenians voted for Austria. In the voting zone where the Slovenian-speaking population was 70 percent, i.e. more than two-thirds, 59 percent voted in favour of Austria. Dr. Karl Renner congratulated both groups. A leap from 1920 at the present time, to 2011: The bilingual education is becoming more and more accepted. Parents of German mother tongues also increasingly choose to send their children to schools with German and Slovenian lessons. This is gratifying and shows positive sides for Europe as well. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll finish. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this law and made it possible: the Slovenian associations, the local associations, the mayors, the head of state, the Federal Government, Chancellor Werner Faymann, and, of course, for the negotiating skills and the enormous endurance, especially State Secretary Josef Ostermayer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11969	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e11990	Mr President. Gentlemen of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Poštovani gledatelji after galleryi i pred televizija. Pozdravljam vas kod shednice nationalnog austricnog odbora. Najsrdaknije pozdravljan i moje priatelje iz gradišňa s kimi sam jur duga lenta u jako dobrom kontaktu! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: According to the Rules of Procedure...!]] Tarschok's madjar neptchoportbol Austriaban...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12017	Mr President, I should like to thank The negotiating language is German. There is nothing wrong with a greeting in Croatian. But if this is going to be a longer explanation, you should know what it's all about.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12032	I'll translate it. I just wanted to welcome the representatives of the minorities and the spectators on the television screens in their language. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! As spokesperson of the Austrian People's Party, I am of course particularly pleased that we are setting another milestone in the Austrian People's Group Policy with this new People's Group Act. It is undoubtedly a successful work after many decades, and I do not want to thank the Secretary of State and all those who have contributed to the implementation of this law and, hopefully, to be adopted as a five-party law. But the law is one, and the life of the law is the other. There are quite different views on this form of living together, as we have heard today. There are many fathers for this success. It has been addressed the era Schüssel, including Gusenbauer as Federal Chancellor, and it is now finally the present Federal Government that is taking this step. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Critical comments have also been made on the fact that the ethnic groups were not involved to the extent I would have wished. There have been many protests in this regard. I should like to ask, with all due regard, Mr Ostermayer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and ask that the further dialogue, which is still to be held, should in future involve all the political parties and all the groups, because we still have a great deal to do with the Austria's ethnic groups and minorities. I am sure that we will also have good results in the further steps that still need to be taken. Finally, I should like to congratulate all those who have contributed and ask all Members to agree to this act.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12086	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12108	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! Of course, today is a remarkable day, a kind of state holiday, and of course the Carinthian Members have been called to speak here on the occasion of today. But it is a matter of general government. Therefore, I have also taken the liberty to speak out of conviction on this subject today, because it does not correspond to my nature to spicy around, that this and that still lack that it has not been entirely successful that this and that section are still missing. No, one should also have the size of collapsing on a day like this, so that the parties across the borders give each other the congratulation to the fact that a conflict of extreme burden to the Republic has been resolved for at least 56 years! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is to be welcomed, and it is the acting person, our head of state Dörfler, State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer and others, the Slovenian representatives, the Home Associations, the people on the verge of congratulating on this peace project of the Republic and expressing their thanks to the House, which is ambiguous. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I should like to remind you of why it is a general concern. The creation of the Republic of Austria after the collapse of 1918 was a work of the federal states. The federal states have essentially represented the estate of the heirs of the monarchy and the dukes, duke of Carinthia, crane and the associated provinces in the south. Why did the so-called town table tower cause a great burden in 1972? – It is extremely important to remember that there was still Communist Communists at that time. There were living territorial claims to Austria in the Communist Yugoslavia. There, maps were still distributed in schools as a living teaching material, including the Austrian territory as a demand stock up to the threshold, thus making it the subject of public awareness of the communist architecture of the Titojugoslav region. It was not surprising, therefore, that when the local boards were drawn up in 1972, they were understood as recognition of the primacy of the territorial claim of the Communist Yugoslavia. And today, of course, worlds separate us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, you can wonder why only sheet metal plates have been organized such a germination. These plates were an expression of the expansionist territorial claim of Yugoslavian Communism. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] These times we have left God behind to thank us, and many have been involved in bringing the matter to a happy end. That this is today It is a parliamentary celebration. I thank you personally for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12180	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12201	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen, who look at us at home, and dear guests at the gallery! I would also like to warmly welcome the representatives of the Slovenian minority in our midst. - Dober, then! Welcome to the High House! In the debates, it has so often been about home country, of home, of being native, of home. I notice that, unfortunately, just those people who use the word “home” as inflationary often pretend that this is just their home country. [[Abg. The Home Party!]] However, it should be a matter of course that the Federal Republic of Carinthia is of course home to both the Slovenian-speaking Carinthia and the German-speaking Carinthia. It is sad enough to have to hold this again, unfortunately, because many of the contributions in the debate and here in Parliament have unfortunately come from another concept of home. [[Abg. Kickl: How is Turkey with the Kurds?]] The fact is that there has been a long-term assimilation pressure on the minority members in Carinthia. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Bullshit!]] The fact is that the refusal of the establishment of bilingual local boards or the application of the Slovenian as an official language unfortunately took place. These are all the facts you can't ignore. [[Abg. Petzner: That's a fool!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Have you ever been to Carinthia?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If 59 years after signing the State Treaty, one speaks of a great success when at last more local boards are set up if the Slovenian-speaking minority there receives rights that have actually been securitised for 56 years, then unfortunately this is not a star hour and no reason for SPÖ, ÖVP, FPK and also not for the BZÖ to knock on the shoulder. [[Abg. Petzner: What about the minorities in Turkey? You should come in front of your own door!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since this is an improvement in the present situation, the Greens will vote in favour of this proposal by a majority. It is also a matter of concern to me and to us that this does not mean to us the end of the rights of the minority and minorities, of the ethnic groups in Austria, but rather, hopefully, a new beginning, of a new beginning for a meeting at an eye level between majority and minorities, between Carinthia and Carinthia with Slovenian native language and with German mother tongue. In this sense thank you beautiful and hvala lepa!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12308	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12330	Mr President. High house! Mrs Korun, it is not worth responding to your comments. Whoever criticizes home has no home, and who has no home, has no identity either. They also prove it by your CV. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: This is last-class!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I love home, and therefore I am glad that this chapter is being closed today. Many have spoken of a historic moment, many have hit the shoulder, many are crowned with success or have the success on their own revers. I'll tell you one thing: The success has many fathers, but if we are all honest and do not want to make this decision a folklore event, then we have to thank two personalities who have already made this decision in 2006 that we can finally decide on today, and that is the unfortunately deceased Kärntner head of state Jörg Haider together with the Federal Chancellor other than Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, who was far more visionary five years ago than it is today the Social Democracy and its State Secretary Ostermayer. [[In the case of BZÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Kickl.]] I understand that everyone's flower is on the hat or the revers, but here in Parliament we are also committed to the truth. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria and Carinthia have thus fulfilled Article 7 of the State Treaty. This has only been emphasized by Klubobmann Bucher and Mr Petzner in today's debate. Dear Ambassador of Slovenia, Your Excellency! Austria has fulfilled its responsibility and has complied with the contracts. I expect Slovenia to respect, respect and reparation for the German-speaking minority. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I expect the merciless reconnaissance of war crimes at the German-speaking minority, the reconnaissance of the mass graves in Slovenia, and I also expect from the Slovenian side a harder process at Krško. What are the benefits of double-language local panels when a scrap reactor in Slovenia is flying around our ears? Then there are no more local boards for people living in these communities. That too is to be said today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the message we should send out internationally. In order to comply with Article 7 of the State Treaty, I shall therefore submit the request made by Members Scheibner, Petzner and Bucher: [[Quoted print version removed]] Then it is really a great moment for Austria and a great moment for Carinthia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12406	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12470	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek spoke about business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12494	Mr President. So I have to say honestly now that it's enough for me sometime now. I would like to express something that is now moving many in this House. May it be that Members of this group constantly assume that they do not have a home in this House, just because they may not have been born in Austria, but that they make politics here in Austria as an Austrian parliamentarian. [[towards BZÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You must make a request for the Rules of Procedure!]] I call for a call for an order, in particular to Mr Petzner, who says again and again: Look at your own door! Everyday racism in this house really has to be bordered.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12535	Mrs Colleague, you also know, as former President, that this was not a business-to-business contribution, and I am aware of the desire for a call for an order, but the decision lies with me. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Blitzed!]] Another word message? With an application? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12575	Mr President. I would like to ask you and make the request to deal with this issue in the next presidential term. Of course, it is true that we as mandaters must also show respect, but I would ask you, Mrs Glavischnig, to understand that sometimes there is a somewhat more emotional argument, especially when it is completely forgotten that, for example, Mrs Korun, when it comes to promoting Kurdish rights in Turkey, has not yet set any accents. [[Call the Greens:Rassistic! Sustained!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12623	Each group is free to address the presidential issues. Mr President, you also know that this has not been a business contribution either. We should also talk about this in the next presidential term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Obernosterer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12658	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Love Colleagues from Carinthia! Mr. Landeshuptmann! Dear Land Councils! Dear listeners at the gallery! Return to the agenda item Location tab solution. Today, if you have been able to follow the broad consensus in the last words, I can only say that for us Carinthia, of course, it is beautiful that this has found this broad consensus. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] We'd already had it in Carinthia under Schüsel and Haider in 2006. As has already been said, however, there has not been a two-thirds majority in the National Council. It seems that important things also need their time. Today this historic day is to be and this local panel solution in Carinthia is finally to be completed. In here, everyone seems to be satisfied. But I have to say that I am much, much more important, that the majority – really the great majority – of the Carinthians are happy that this topic is finally from the table and that Carinthia can devote itself to tasks that are more urgent. Carinthia is generally not blessed in this economically difficult time, and all political power is needed for important things. That's important! Today, the Carinthian involvement in this outcome has been repeatedly discussed. I have to say that this has actually been strange, but it also seems to be necessary for things that run quite unanimously, and again and again such side appearances. Consider that the memorandum was published on 26 March. ==References====External links== In May 2011, the state government came to the state government, unanimously noted in the state government, and the Federal Government was also invited in this memorandum to bring about the necessary constitutional majority in the summer and to decide on that. After all this has been noted, the next item on the agenda provides that the Carinthian population must also be asked. This survey, which cost a lot of money, has turned out to be in Carinthia itself. The population did not understand this. In the end, however, the good is to stand. I really have to say to the head of state of Carinthia, Mr. Dörfler: You really brought yourself in with your heart, along with all your colleagues, the Slovenian representatives and the Federal Secretary of State. Such things do not arise by themselves. It takes a lot of strength, time and heart for that. It has really been concluded in the sense of Austria and especially in the sense of the Carinthian population. I would like to congratulate all of you and all of us on this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12704	Mr Jury spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12725	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Landeshuptmann! Dr. Josef Martinz! Dr. Kaiser! My dear Slovenian representatives! Mr Sturm from the Central Association and Mr Sadovnik from the Community of Carinthian Slovenians! That's a historic day today, and on this historic day as the last one here on this pult, I'm a little proud. Before this positive decision-making takes place in this House today, however, I do not want to leave something completely uncommented. The second speaker on this item was Mr Plassnik. She said it's so stressful when it's called in the fourth verse of the Carinthian home song: “Where the border was written with blood.” My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If, in 1918 and 1920, loyal Carinthians had not struggled with body and life around this border, we would not decide today on this People's Group Act because we were on Slovenian territory. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I had to say that. The positive forces have kept the upper hand over the negative forces, and with the co-existence of our peoples in Carinthia, there will also be a positive development for Carinthia in future, not only in the economic field, but above all in the social sphere, because no more than 2 or 3 percent of the population can always take the majority population and thus a whole country hostage. Ladies and gentlemen! Decision-making today is a positive decision-making process. Live our home Carinthia! Live the Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12776	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1312. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zinggl, have tabled an amendment or amendment. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since both the present draft law and the above-mentioned supplementary or amendment amendments contain constitutional provisions, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure establishes the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall first come to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, which deals with the introduction of a new paragraph 17 and the additions. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority. Therefore, the required two-thirds majority has not been reached. The additional request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Zinggl, colleagues, on paragraph 6 of Section 12(1) to (3). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – That too is the minority. The amendment is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Members Petzner, colleagues and others, on paragraph 6 of Section 12 para. 3rd. I would ask those Members who are voting in favour of a sign. – That too is the minority. The amendment is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Zinggl, colleagues, on points 8, 12, 13, 14 and 16. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The amendment is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is largely accepted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. [[Sustained by SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on the fulfilment of the Vienna State Treaty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I would also like to thank the representatives from Carinthia – all the languages – who attended this debate and the vote and wish them a good return home! [[13:13:01]] 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Annual Report 2010 of the ORF pursuant to § 7 of the ORF Act, submitted by the Federal Chancellor (III-249/1311 d.B.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1517/A(E) by Mr Mag. Heidemarie Unterlander, colleagues on the promotion of folk music and folk music (1379 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12933	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Vilimsky spoke. 4 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e12960	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that we can still debate public-law broadcasting today, especially since in August there is a very important choice and it is necessary that we once again remember all the aspects of public-law broadcasting policy in Austria. There are two reports on the debate recently: on the one hand, very thick and detailed, the annual report 2010 in the committee responsible, on the other hand, “value by fee”, the public value report of the ORF itself. I prefer the concept of public added value, but so far, so good. This praises the policy of the ORF and the public-law orientation. On the other hand, without having to read it, a simple look at today's television programme to learn something about this public-law orientation. This morning: “What’s Up, Dad?”, “Malcolm in the middle of it”, again the repetition of “Malcolm in the middle of it”, “My cool uncle Charlie”, then continues with “What’s Up, Dad?”, the third episode today, then continues with “Malcolm in the middle of it” and “How I Met Your Mother”. No matter how much you want to evaluate this from the Government Party SPÖ – I am speaking to you in particular – for me, the non-public-law character of a broadcasting agency like the ORF! This is nothing but the RTLization, the attempt to make private competition, but also to enjoy the fees on the other hand. I say: There would be a need to further develop a general media promotion that goes in the direction of combining all sectors under one roof: the printing area, the TV area, the radio area, but also the online area, which is becoming increasingly important! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Cap, where is the added value of public law actually when I ‘CSI: Miami", “Monk” or whatever is seen in the ORF with fees, and on the other hand can these series also be seen on RTL, ProSieben or anywhere?- Oh, my God! There has been a complete rupture! Look In comparison with other broadcasting organisations in Europe, please contact the ORF: The ORF is increasing its share of information, which is 20 percent. Others, such as ARD and ZDF in the Federal Republic of Germany, have an information share of 40 percent and more. So it's exactly the other way round: The ORF is screwing up the entertainment part, driving down the information share; and that is exactly the wrong way, one that a public-law transmitter should not actually enter! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the run-up to this election, we then have a very important area, namely that of political influence on this public-law broadcasting. Someone from your ranks, from your political thirst, namely Mr. Seiler, who has also been elected as a successful media manager for a short time here as a possible candidate, simply threw the towel and said that he sees that in Austria politicians want only one hand. – That’s the wrong way! The print landscape describes the following – I am allowed to quote the “curier” –: “If now in August the ORF chief” – Wrabetz – “is chosen, however, one is really reminded of former socialist party days.” – That’s exactly the accusation, which also comes from the black half of the empire again and again. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I'd like to speak to the clubman's head. He is right when he says that media management at the Küniglberg is a false one, a fatal one, that Wrabetz has played 10 percent of seers' share, that today the historical low level of seers at the ORF is the case and a new option is to be sought. Klubobmann Kopf also rightly says that the programme director Lorenz is ready to be removed after he has attacked the private sector in an incompetent manner. There is much in the arrogance, and my appeal here to this House is – despite all the non-existent influences on the Foundation Council, I know that, but –: There is the opportunity to act on a voluntary basis. There is the possibility that Wrabetz may not simply be shaken through; for Wrabetz has led the ORF to its historically lowest vision rate, which brings the Küniglberg into permanent slants from an entrepreneurial point of view. It is expressed not only by other potential candidates, but also across the newspaper landscape that the grip of politics, the Party Secretariats, in particular the Red Party Secretariats is the determining factor! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: What kind of quotas do you expect when Mrs. Rudas...?- Oh, my God!]] Look at the cases of the ORF! Mr. Klubobmann Cap, you're talking to me. I'd like an answer. Is it all right if a reporter of the ORF takes two skinheads, pays them for bringing them in, equips them to celebrate our clubman who is at an event, a picture that does not correspond to reality?- Oh, my God! Is that all right?- Oh, my God! Wrabetz and all at the ORF are behind this procedure. I say: This is not only bad for a medium, but particularly bad when it comes to a public-law medium. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's a lot in the arrogance here. For example, when Raimund Löw in Strasbourg gives the impression to international journalists that Austria is a country where it would be our, the strongest opposition, to extend Adolf Hitler's honorary citizenship. - That's absurd! If one then reads in the curriculum of the Lord Löw and sees that he has been active in a group of revolutionary Marxists, then one will have to realize that he has not really put this coat down to this day! There's a lot of things going wrong here. It's made order here. Public broadcasting in Austria, the ORF, is to become a good ORF, it is to remain public-law. I want a media promotion from which everyone can benefit who produces public-law content! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Party Secretariats and a candidate Wrabetz, of which the newspapers say that this election will be nothing but a socialist party – I do not want it! And I hope that the ÖVP will remain true to its word and that it will also act positively on its foundation councils!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13046	The next speaker was Mr Cap. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13067	Figures are facts. The figures say the ORF has made the turn. Congratulations on the management! In 2010 you have a plus of €25 million, even the ORF mother is positive. This is due to the fact that this Management Board, together with the Foundation Council, has decided and implemented a structural reform programme. When Mr Vilimsky spoke earlier, I have been wondering all the time: What kind of media is he talking about? Because the figures and facts at the table are clear. [[Abg. Vilimsky: TV programme!]] In the international, especially European comparison, the ORF remains at the forefront of television with the quota, with the radio at all. I would like to say to comparisons with the so-called former Director-General or general interns, who now always know in the background how it went: These people led the company at a time when it still had the Sendenmonopol and the reception monopoly, that was also before digitization. Look, if I wanted to, I could only get 2 800 channels with a “smoothing antenna” myself, 2 800! When the so-called leadership geniuses of the ORF had the saying, only a fraction of it could be received. You know, Mr Vilimsky, if we really want to debate seriously, then you have to say that it does not help anything. But I would like to add: The implementation of this ORF law has been most successful. It was decided by SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ with a two-thirds majority. [[Abg. Grosz: 160 million € stolen from taxpayer! Yes, I do!]] The funds for this subrefund for lost fees are, as decided, received in the field of self-production, programme creation, film/TV agreements, in all these areas, that is, in the service of the quality of the programme for those who consume television and radio. It should go that way. I believe that we should, of course, continue to re-evaluate this re-funding of the fees received for the purposes of figures, because this can only serve the quality of the programme, and even link it with this provision. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Doubling?]] I hope that you will then have a more inclined ear on the part of the liberals to really support this perspective. It is therefore an absolutely positive result compared to 2009, a plus of € 69.2 million. [[Abg. Grosz: Just because you have pumped in 160 million € of tax money!]] There have also been these structural changes, which the Central Works Councillor Moser describes in an issue, whereby the workforce, which often works under adverse conditions, must be given the greatest praise, with the workforce falling by 14 percent over the past three years – through retirement, handshake models et cetera. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Especially in the management!]] Now that there has been a zero wage round in 2010 and a salary conclusion in 2011 under the inflation rate, with regard to sustainability, and the approximation of various contract data, with also the ORF-pension cash contributions being suspended – now the workforce has reached the limit if it is to provide real quality! [[Abg. Grosz: There has been a lot saved!]] It is true that the Central Works Councillor Moser says that on this occasion one is again about § 31 para. 13 will have to talk about what we have written into this law, according to which, among other things, a mandatory reduction in staff and personnel capacity, which have been proved to have been achieved in recent years, should now also be associated with a per capita reduction in costs. Moser rightly says that this exceeds his imagination. Honestly, mine, too. If we really want this quality to be guaranteed, which the fee payers rightly demand, then, I believe, belongs here to this § 31 para. 13 spoke seriously, whether this paragraph makes sense at all. The ORF as the institution of the national cultural identity of Austria, with the diversity and consideration of all the cultures and minorities that exist, is a very, very important guiding medium. From a sense of responsibility towards the ORF, we should do everything we can to continue his independent, objective work in the interests of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13186	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Inconsistency. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13207	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! They all know the folk song: “No beautiful land at this time than here we’re far and wide.” This expresses exactly what I want to talk about today, what I feel and think. I've come around a lot in the wide world, I've visited all continents. I respect other cultures, I appreciate other cultures, but I love my own. This also applies, of course, to one's own music – whether it's classical music or folk music, the transitions are flowing. For example, the Schubert song “Am Brunnen vor dem Tore” has become a folk song, and vice versa, our great classics have often been inspired by melodies from the people for their great works. This also applies to the flowing transitions from folk songs, from folk music to folk music. Today I want to talk about folk music, the source of music. I am concerned with the care of folk music in the ORF. Although the ORF is obliged to implement the cultural order contained in the ORF Act, there is a need for re-examination as far as folk music is concerned. Our neighbouring countries Switzerland and Bavaria have long recognized this: The folk music is not only banned for a few hours a week and only in the evening hours, but is dedicated to folk music a very wide space. I was actually very strange in the Committee's deliberations because of the inconsistency and arrogance of the cultural speakers of the other parties. Our request, ladies and gentlemen, provides that the ORF will in future provide an appropriate share of the broadcast time of its programme of domestic music creations and music productions, especially folk music and folk music, in order to promote folk music and folk music. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was, as I said, rejected. I'm not so surprised by many left-wing Members. However, the cultural spokesperson of the ÖVP misses any relationship with folk music shows that parts of the ÖVP have lost contact with the people. [[Abg. Head: That's right?]] – Well, Mr Klubobmann, I'm sorry, but it is. You should have heard her. She said: I am more for contemporary art or music. That would be just as if there were no contemporary folk music and the contemporary folk song. To do only to the ÖVP as if it were popular, but when it comes to not giving a confession – that is already very weak! [[Abg. Head: folk music is not like folk music...!]] Then: Folk music is timeless, folk music lives on, it is vital and full of power. There are folk songs that even replace our national anthem for some Austrians, with the love song in Austria... [[Abg. Hörl: Eternal!]] I heard that in the committee, but that's not exactly what it is! For example, when I remember the song of Rainhard Fendrich, with the words “i am dei Apple, you mei tribe”, many sing with enthusiasm. They have certainly all flown with the plane before, which is for many a folk song and replaces the national anthem. Or, for example, if you go to the Salzburg Festival: The young people wear costumes, they love folk music, they love the folk song. Even at the weddings, you wear clothes. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the future, which is not eternal, as I have now heard from the ÖVP. The choirs sing enthusiastically their own songs, folk dance groups are stormed, shoe plates are expensive and funny. We respect and love the music that comes from the people. If the government parties are also blind and deaf as far as our art is concerned, they may also reject our request, we liberals will continue to do everything possible to promote our folk art, our folk music, so that they continue to flourish and thrive!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13276	The next speaker was Mr Klubobmann's head. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13297	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is certainly doubtful that free media is important for a developed democracy, because just like the fourth violence is in democracy, exercise control, provide information. And the ORF is undoubtedly, even though it has recently acquired some parts or added itself, still the guiding medium of the Austrian media scene. I also recognize myself and the ÖVP admits itself to the dual broadcasting system, that is, to the public-law element in broadcasting, because simply information, documentation, culture, but of course also entertainment, no question, are essential elements of the public-law mission as well. But something is getting too short already or there, namely the unmistakability of the programme, also as regards the domestic programme. Only that is what justifys the ORF’s fee privilege with over €500 million, which the fee payers deliver annually to the ORF. Only by this public-law contract and by some restrictions that exist rightly, this fee privilege must be justified. But neither do I hide, ladies and gentlemen, that I worry about the ORF. Economically, everything is not the way it should be. It has spent half of its equity in recent years and is in a critical capital situation. Only the financial injection of the federal government, which we have jointly decided here, and also the economic measures imposed by us by law, i.e. savings measures in the company, have contributed to the fact that this company is now on a better economic course. There's also the business director of the company, Mag. Richard Grasl to congratulate in particular. He keeps this course in the company and looks forward to the implementation of these legal provisions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a humorous contribution by the Director-General, I would appreciate his contribution yesterday in a discussion where he meant: “We produce entertainment with attitude...” “We have made the economic turnaround out of our own strength and are financially independent.” – No, 50 million of the federal government do not quite agree. – And: “Our editorial independence is out of dispute...” – So, as I said, I consider this to be a rather humorous contribution. I guess that's not what I'm talking about. From this point on, an appeal to the Foundation Councils towards 9. August: The Stiftungsrat is the supervisory body of the company or a supervisory board of the company, which is a modelled supervisory body of the company, and supervisory councils are liable for what they do there and what they decide there. ==References== August about a new leadership in the ORF, and I can only advise all the board members of the Foundation to be very, very, very, very, very aware of this responsibility and to make a careful decision in the light of the company's continued existence and in the light of what this company needs for a leadership in the future. One last word on § 31: Yes, the Central Works Council has recently spoken out, the commercial director has also written us a letter and has here a change. I have a certain understanding of the fact that, on the one hand, we have instructed the company to reduce the personnel costs per se, as a whole, but on the other hand also instructed him to reduce the per capita costs of staffing, for a good reason: because they are simply too high in international comparison with other broadcasting companies. These per capita expenditures are not justified, but I already admit that the call to reduce the total costs and the per capita costs at the same time can in itself be a little objection or a contradiction, namely, if one is to take action and actually to the top earners through this handshake programme and so on has already used up the opportunities for the more expensive people to a large extent, and thus, if one reduces staff, will probably be below the average level, which, of course, is the opposite. So under certain conditions – that the savings path will not leave, that the ORF goes in a direction of objectivity in its reporting and much more that there is to criticise – one can also talk to us about these paragraphs. But only, I say that immediately, under certain conditions. There must be some other things in the company that are causing criticism today. But I'd be quite ready to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13355	The next speaker was Mr Riemer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13376	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Klubobmann, you said it right: the dual system of the ORF, that is, red and black. I think this is a great story! Today we have heard about the Carinthians, there are minority rights. I would insist on strengthening minority rights in the ORF – especially those of the opposition! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also heard that the story is so that the question arises: Is the ORF for the people and the Austrian population there or the Austrian population People, the Austrian population as contributors to the ORF? This question must also be asked in principle. And of course this is also about the cultural contribution. Austria was a flourishing cultural nation. We're still talking about the emperor. The last emperor has already died, it would be time for us to do something, too. It always says where one sings, there lets you down quietly, but in schools too little is sung, there is too little sung outside, and what we all underestimate here today could be felt as a bitter lack tomorrow. In principle: The task of a public-law instrument such as the ORF is not only to bear responsibility for objective reporting, but also to fulfil the highest and general educational requirements for the Republic as a cultural carrier in order to make a significant contribution to the Austrian identity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This means that the ORF has to, can and should do enough of this educational and entertainment requirement in radio and television. He has purposely to promote local music creation from all areas, text, literature and other arts, thus providing for a greater selection of talented composers, poets, artists. I'm not just talking about the common and arbitrary folk music here, I'm talking about a reservoir for the conservatories, top orchestras, yes, a reservoir for the most gifted. And what about the promotion of countless house music groups that are waiting with a large repertoire and are in need of targeted support? In football, in alpine sports and so on, it's different, and that's what I wish for our people. Countless groups of music also show a high level of mood and entertainment, and there it might have been quite skillful that one might go back to the concept of the folk song with humility. Let's get back on herder! For him, the national anthem was an expression of culture, tradition, way of thinking, but also a degree of philosophy, an educational ideal that not only contained the national elements, but also – we would say – national terms. So, of course, the national anthem should also express the soul and the essence of a people and be in harmony with the cultural, general-human nature. I think we all have to do there, just where we have spoken about minorities or multilinguals today. All of them have their folk songs, but that's all from the past. Remember, all the songs of the community, the landscape, songs of rides, kitchen songs, songs of rural life come from a time that lies far behind. Where are we today? It's stupid. We only have the past. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] In the past, every professional group, every profession, had its songs. I miss modern political folk songs from the work of the present time. I miss the folk songs of all the environmental movements of the present time. I miss folk songs from the religious-spiritual part. On this path, support a popular future, talented and artists! It will otherwise have our present only by preserves of the ancient recognition value. The ORF has a high, important public order here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13452	Mr Brosz is speaking as the next speaker. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13485	Mr President. There's someone else in charge of singing deposits. – I find it interesting that the economic development of the ORF – colleague head has now, I think, gone out; ah, he is just getting out – so to speak, that apparently the commercial director Grasl is driving a course that he alone is responsible for, so the economic development is in line, but Wrabetz, who is the Director-General and perhaps has something to do with it, gets the criticism off. One could also look at economic development a little objectively. Just as in the 2008/2009 phase of the ORF crisis, to the extent that advertising revenue has broken down, it is not responsible for the high level of return. There are other backgrounds, too, why this is better or worse. So from here you can look at what the company can do, where it can design and where on the other hand there are also things on which business management has relatively little influence. Here we come to the point that Mr Cap has raised – it would be interesting to discuss this with Klubobmann – because this question of absurd formulation, that one must at the same time save and that the per capita costs still need to be reduced, has been discussed in detail in the ORF legislation, and Mr Kopf has insisted on the fact that it remains just as it now stands in the law. Those who have agreed have done so, I think, with great abdominal pain. We did not agree at the time, but it was a fierce debate. The logic is, of course, absurd. I mean, you can say that you have to save, but apart from the fact that the company itself should find out where there is savings potential, it has been mentioned that this is also about outsourcings or areas that simply are not in the best profit. So from this point of view, there is a clear need to change the law. The situation has now occurred that, in particular in the field of correspondents, reporting from European countries or also from global hotspots, we now have a very dramatic personnel situation. If the ORF does not have the opportunity to be directly on site, then the influence on the quality of the reporting takes place. This is not only about coming with the savings glasses, but also about – which is often addressed here – to contribute to the quality. So, of course, on the one hand, the issue of quota and, on the other hand, the question of public contract and which consignments are shown is a subject. The FPÖ makes it relatively easy: On the one hand, it is called for that there should be as much qualitative claim as possible, on the other hand, when the quota decreases. This sometimes doesn't fit very well, because it's just that there are also shows here, where a certain audience also calls for these things to happen. Series also have a certain audience. The question is not: Can you play this or not?, but: To what extent is that happening? Is there an overall picture that's true? There have been quite problematic situations in the past that the overall picture has not voted. To this end, I find it positive that ORF 3 is coming, a cultural and information station. If the media speakers had been at the presentation on Monday, they could have seen what's going on there. What is planned there is certainly in line with the basic principles of the public service contract. This includes the cultural sector, theatre programmes, book discussions, an information channel is created, that is, something you have written in the law and what is implemented with it. The point is that the FPÖ is very inconspicuous. Today we have a request for folk music, more singing in the ORF and the like. On the one hand, the ORF is to be independent, on the other hand, at each second plenary session there is a request from the FPÖ, which says which programmes are to be brought, which areas are to be brought, which journalists are not allowed to report again – see Raimund Löw from Brussels. There is great excitement when the ORF reporters and journalists do their work, namely critical reporting. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What you want is not public television – what you want is blue state radio. And we can certainly give up on that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Every time – of course also critical – the FPÖ is considered, as in the other parties too, there is the big call. [[Abg. Grosz: Talk about the Pius Strobl!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Mr. Kopf has disappeared, but Mr. Moschitz has been awarded the National Education Prize for his documentation “On the Right Edge” in the programme “Am Schauplatz”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] - Grosz, right, right! Everything that is critical of the FPÖ is mowing down: Get out of this country! That's your position. You don't need to come to us. Mr Klubobmann Kopf also attacked Mr Moschitz in a massive way, and I would have expected that after the end of the proceedings against Ed Moschitz because of the absurd accusation of re-activating, that is, because there is supposed to be a call for re-acting, sometimes a word of excuse. It would be appropriate to find a word of excuse for acknowledgment when someone receives a national education prize, but that's all meat, that doesn't matter. If it fits politically, then it is argued. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The humorous contribution of the colleague's head is also worthy, in which he has described political independence. I'm still trying to make the picture relatively clear. What was before the era Wrabetz, and what is now? There will always be interventions in the ORF. To a certain extent, it is also understandable that parties may be upset about something. The question is not whether there is intervention, but how to deal with the interventions and on which ground they fall. I can only say that the Lord Mück was sitting at the station and has done something like that. [[the speaker shows up with the thumb]] [[The speaker shows the thumb down]] It's like that! That was the “Era Mück” in the ORF. [[Abg. Petzner: The Pius Strobl too! Tell you something about the Pius Strobl!]] And in a form where the reporting was clear: If the ÖVP central says: Don't come! Then the story doesn't come. It's changed. There are critical contributions towards all parties, I would say, and it is about strengthening the ORF in such a way that journalists can do their work and decide according to journalistic criteria whether these contributions are brought or not. But on the one hand, to walk around the area with the staff lists of the ÖVP and to say what must happen so that you can support and choose Wrabetz, and on the other hand to conjure political independence, which I would have liked to tell him personally, is a bit cheap. So either clear up. Once you enter the staff lists of the ÖVP – perhaps they are just being rewritten, because the ÖVP club is quite decimating – and let it, or you confess, that you actually want to recolor the ORF as it was then designed under Mück and Lindner, and that this is the only thing that matters to you. So: Journalists should do their job, the ORF should, as far as possible within a legal framework, carry out its reporting and reduce the political influence as far as possible. That would be an ORF image for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13579	The next speaker was Mr Petzner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13600	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Two. On the one hand: If you read the 2010 report, you have to say, of course, that the current management, especially as regards the economic orientation – we are an economic party – of the ORF, was successful. For the first time in years, a plus of 24.9 percent could be completed again. There have also been numerous measures, including the reduction of personnel. That is to say, the economic orientation of public broadcasting in Austria is right. Much has also been done in the field of new technologies, such as the Internet. I remember the great success of the TV library – a measure that the online director Thomas Prantner, in particular, has to answer. Over 5 million calls in 2010 speak a clear language. - That's the one area. The other area that's a little worried about me is the program. In the programme, the ORF has a massive vulnerability, not only in terms of personnel, with Mr. Lorenz, who – quoted Wrabetz – “browns up the company” quote. That is to say, one has to do something in the programme, one has to strengthen the trust of listeners and seers in the ORF, because the quota flight, ladies and gentlemen, has primarily to do with the fact that people no longer rely on the independence and objectivity of public-law broadcasting. This is the problem and the central challenge we have. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If Klubobmann's head has previously been in charge of what does not have to be done at the ORF, and also Mr Brosz, then we are honest: It's just the ÖVP that it's always been about: Who will be what and how much can we intervene in this company? The 'Moltophone', please, is now famous-famous, and we stand for the 'Moltophone' to be turned off, ladies and gentlemen, and no longer on, even if it doesn't fit you. That's why we are! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A sentence to the Greens. I mean, with you, it's the same thing: Please don't talk about independence! The most corrupt, most purchaseable, busiest ORF man is your Pius Strobl. What has been said in this company would be urgently needed, ladies and gentlemen, by criminal law. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The only ones – I can say this with fug and right here – of which you will not find any personnel demands, now also in the direction of 9. August, we are... For the BZÖ is the only party not about a party-politically colored ORF, but about a strong, economically healthy, red-and-white-red public-law radio that is available for listeners and seers and for no political party, whether it is the People's Party or whether it is the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13664	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. Is Mr. Wittmann in the hall? - That's not the case. Then I call Mr Dr. Huainigg as the next speaker. On request, I have set 3 minutes speaking time for you. When you start talking, the timing starts to run. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13688	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I often have discussions with young people on the subject of democracy and Parliament, and I ask them what the Federal Chancellor is called. What do you think the young people say? Are there any proposals? [[Call the Greens:Kreisky!]] – They don’t say Faymann, they don’t even say Spindelegger, but instead of a federal chancellor, they see a German chancellor, Angela Merkel. And I'm asking you: Why do young people believe that we have a Federal Chancellor that Angela Merkel is our Federal Chancellor? Because German Chancellor Faymann is so rarely seen in the ORF? – I don’t think so, but they say it because young people look at German channels and switch away from ORF because the offer is not interesting for them. I think there is a great need for action at ORF to keep its audience, because the annual report shows that the average seer of “time in the picture” is 61 years and the average seer of the ZIB is 68 years old at 1 p.m. – well noticed, the average seer. So here, worry is very well justified, and the ORF needs to bring young seers more into its program. However, there is also a positive news to be read in the annual report, namely that accessibility for disabled people has increased sharply, from 24 percent in 2009 to 45 percent in 2010, and 55 percent of this year's subtitles are planned. I very much welcome this. I am very pleased. This success has two reasons: One cause is the ORF law, which states that ORF programs must be sent freely and that the gradual subtitles need to be increased. I recall the difficult discussions in the Committee on the ORF Act, which have repeatedly stressed the voluntary nature and that the ORF will do so. We said: No, it needs a legal fixation. – And this fixation has come, also thanks to the support and tenacity of our clubman Karl-Heinz Kopf, who has also produced fruit. [[Abg. Brosz: But that's strong!]] The second cause is a person, Sissy Mayerhoffer, head of the Humanitarian Broadcasting department, who is very committed to accessibility. She too is to thank this success. I would find it right if more disabled people were to be seen as moderators in the ORF. A first step was taken with a wheelchair driver as a moderator, which I find very positive. Only one should leave behind Peter Rapp as a co-moderator this year – this is my Christmas wish, because he will no longer “trap” himself morally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13749	The next speaker was Mr Dr Zinggl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13770	Ladies and gentlemen! I have very briefly criticized the strange, anachronistic division in the ORF's annual report on music. In connection with Ö1, the categorisation – which has been anachronistic since the 1980s at the latest – is still being conducted between E and U, and in Ö3 we have distinctions between hits, evergreens and entertainment music. There's no difference at all. I think it would be easier to distinguish between three quarters and four quarters. But what? There's more important. For the distinction between folk music and folk music, Mrs. Unterlander, I would like to explain something to you: The differences between these two areas could not be greater at all. The only common is the word “people”, which is contained in both terms, but nothing else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The folk music is practiced bottom-up by a lot of people in this country – it's similar to folk sports football – and the quantity then creates something like quality in music – at football I don't know, I think less. This quality is then actually brought back again and again in the ORF. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Too little!]] There's nothing to criticize. Conversely, there is folk music. This is strangely very related to the punk: Always the same passages are accompanied by the same chords. But while the punk music thus deliberately wishes to express resistance to prevailing conditions, which in part also brings with appropriate agitation and aggressiveness, it sounds rather longingly, melancholy, chic in folk music. I might give you an example. You don't need to be afraid, I won't sing it now, it's just a text example of Hansi Hinting: “Come with me to Tahiti, wherever the sun laughs, where every hour of life makes only joy! Come with me to Tahiti, come, let's live in the sunshine! The beach will be our home forever.” – Quotes. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But that's what's going on!]] Now I could list how many series of the ORF has run in connection with folk music, but I forgot the list above. I think it's 15 series. We're saving this. I believe that there is enough to be done, and apart from that, it is not our task to judge that. This is what the public advisory board and the board of foundations do. We, I think, cannot agree to your request this time. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13836	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13858	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs. Unterlander, on your request ‘Promoting folk music and folk music’: Although our opinions touch on a number of points, we think that much is already done in the ORF. I will now explain to you why we will reject the request. You have already explained what you think of folk music and how important it is in your opinion. We also find that Austrian music is promoted, of course – and the spokesperson of the FPÖ has previously also mentioned this – we find that the ORF programme is reformed in that more is to be offered to young people, because from my point of view as a youth speaker, a lot is happening for folk music. We just heard it, there is the “Grand Prix of Folk Music”, there is also the “Musikantenstadl”, but also the “Hansi Hinterseer Open Air”, then there is “Carmen Nebel”, whatever. On the radio you can see a West-East incident, and I give you the right to say that there is little to nothing about folk music in Vienna, with 7 percent more in Salzburg, and in the radio Carinthia, in the ORF Carinthia, quite a lot is happening. What I'm right with is that you have to put on the lever in Vienna, so that more happens. That's probably why you're doing this, and you're so lacking that more is reported on the radio. Nevertheless, as a youth speaker, I have to say that much too little is being brought to the youth at ORF. All the shipments of the past few years have been stopped, you know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Unspoiled.]] This is a good word now, and I would like to thank you very much for saying: 'You young people'. I have, of course, considered the ORF report, and now we look at who is referred to in the ORF report as a youth and as a young target group, namely the 14- to 49-year-olds! You have to put on the lever, it's reformed, there's something done. The target groups belong to a new definition, because it cannot be that the 14- to 49-year-olds are thrown into a pot and then you say you do something for young people anyway. It can't be. We think it simply has to do much more for the young people in Austria. As regards folk music and folk music, enough time is provided. The word “popular” has already been overtaken by me, we have already discussed that too, one should not use it either, because it is a folk musician, and there are some in the high house, it only becomes so - in Carinthian words - when you say to him that he does folk music. I think this term is obsolete, and we should change something. For these reasons, there is no consent from the BZÖ to the present request.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13909	Mr Ostermayer spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13930	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I use the opportunity to express my thanks to the local panel solution for the overwhelming approval of the Novelle People's Group Law. On the current item on the agenda: This report has been discussed for the first time in the Committee because of the ORF Act of last year, which we have negotiated very long and intensively. There has happened the same thing as now, it has been said relatively little about the report itself; I will do so. In this ORF-law-novelle we have provided for the so-called fee-refunding and made that with certain requirements regarding the program, in terms of subtitles et cetera. If you look at that, you can see that Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. “ORF 3” has already been said as a keyword, i.e. a completely new channel of information and culture, which is created in addition. Sub-heading for deaf or heavily hearing impaired people has been extended by 17 percent. The offer for blind or visually impaired people has been increased by 300 percent. It is therefore more invested in the Austrian film, in Austrian productions, therefore in the Austrian film industry. These are all the points that we have defined as a goal when we introduced the ORF law last year. The starting point for the discussion was that at the end of 2008 we had a large deficit in the ORF, an end of €80 million, and we all thought we had to take certain steps. Stefan Petzner, who has responded to the report, has already mentioned it, namely that the annual report shows that the management of the ORF has managed successfully. The danger we saw at the time, where some have discussed whether the ORF could suffer a fate like the AUA, that is away, that is forbidden. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Petzner.]] If we are now discussing individual programmes – the same thing has happened in committee – I can quote Mr Fichtenbauer, who said in committee that we should not all presume to play the ORF Board of Foundations. The ORF is a constitutionally independent company, there are precise rules of play, which tasks the Director-General has, which tasks the Directors have, which duties of the Foundation Council and which tasks the Public Council has. I believe that this separation should continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e13997	The next speaker was Mrs Lueger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14018	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In accordance with the ORF Act, the ORF is obliged to present this report which we have for the first time, with a scientific preparation, with a report on the volume of revenue generated from commercial communications, as well as on the nature and extent of commercial activity, and on its subsidiaries. However, it also includes a good presentation in the report of how the application and compliance with the quality assurance system should work, such as the criteria included in the “ORF Public Value Report”, where five quality dimensions and 18 performance categories of the core contract are to be reviewed once again. I am convinced that, with the innovation we decided last October, we have decided on EU-compliant framework conditions in both legal and financial matters. It has thus formed an ambitious structural programme, and on the basis of which there have been some successes that the Secretary of State has already mentioned: 25 million € plus in 2010, and the parent company for the first time in the Plus since 2005. Both revenue and partial funding from the exemption of fees and advertising revenue contribute to the flow of money into newly defined measures. What are these measures? – For example, an increase in self-productions, co-productions and order productions; and thus productions such as the films “Die Fälscher” or “Das weiße Band”. The film/TV agreement has been increased to €8 million, and investment in the domestic production industry has been increased to €95 million. The RSO remains, and what I am particularly pleased about – Mr Markowitz, the youth speaker of the BZÖ, has already mentioned it – it is no longer a topic, we are no longer discussing whether there should be “rat on wire” or not. I am very pleased about the commitment of Mr Klubobmann Kopf, who meant that we can discuss § 31 because I am convinced that we have arrived at the end of the flag rod when we save the staff. Mr Klubobmann's head is, unfortunately, not there, but perhaps one can still clarify it – I hope that I have first misunderstood his Aussa because it cannot be the sense that he meant if the works council chose correctly, he may, as far as possible, make new staff available to the ORF. [[Abg. Grill: You got that right!]] [[Abg. Petzner: You want to do party-political business again, the blacks!]] – If so: People are not toys, they want quality, we support the staff of the ORF, and we will therefore also agree to this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14074	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14095	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! I will also respond very briefly to the request regarding more folk music and folk music in the ORF. Folk music is a very important cultural player in our rural area, many people volunteer in the field of folk music. I know what I'm talking about, I've also sung in a farmer choir, and we've made the folk song live. [[Abg. Petzner: Can you sing us something?]] Of course, there is a lot of homeland behind that, the custom behind it, which has been made regionally; this is a very important aspect of our regional culture. I have to say this. We have many folk culture organizations in the federal states, which are very intensively pushing the folk music and the folk anthem and in good cooperation with the national studios of the ORF Radio programmes, which focus on folk music. These are very successful and have a very high popularity in the population. But I would like to ask you, Mrs Inseiter, do not always confuse folk music and folk music, there is a huge difference; there are no floating boundaries. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ]] The folk song, folk music has grown up from tradition or also come directly from the people and usually has a regional connection, while folk music is pure hit music, is strongly commercialized and serves pure entertainment. Everything has space, even in the ORF – no question. Incidentally, negotiations were conducted by the ORF with the Austrian music scene on the initiative of the ÖVP with a very positive result, whereby the ORF committed itself to contesting 30 percent of its music program with Austrian musicians. I have to mention that here, too. I also have to say that I pay tribute to the private channels, who do not have a public-law mission, who do not have access to ORF fees, but still devote considerable time to folk music and folk music and, above all, to the Austrian interpreters. In this sense, we will certainly not agree to your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14164	The next speaker is Mrs Ablinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14185	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can follow what Mrs Hellerer said. I am also referring to the request that we have discussed in the Committee on Culture, in which you, Mrs Collaborative, wish to oblige the ORF to devote a certain amount of time to domestic music and music production – or in particular – to "popular music" and "popular music". I don't want to interfere in the question of valuations, whether someone likes it or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] - No, I don't want to. I think it is my colleague, Fuhrmann, too, completely unaware to say that her folding contemporary music is more. So that's not the crucial point for me at all. The key point is the facts. We reject your request because the facts and the actual agreements are against it. By the way, you also talked about the meaning of the dirndl dress. But I do not assume that you would think – somewhere in the back of your mind – that there was also a duty to wear the dirndl dress. They mentioned earlier that the Dirndl dress was the future. On the facts, Mrs Unterlander. The figures from the ORF show that there are on average every second Saturday – some find it really amazing – shows and shows dedicated to the genre of folk music and folk music for whole or part. In addition, the ORF makes a whole range of co-productions with ARD and ZDF. Through these co-productions, Austrian interpreters have a number of possibilities to become known throughout the German-speaking region. First point. Second point: We organised here in the house in 2008 an survey on the challenges and musical prospects of development in Austria. One result was the Music Charter, an agreement between SOS Music Country and ORF. It was agreed that the proportion of music from Austria or the works from music makers living in Austria will be increased to 30 percent by 2011. In addition, a dialogue body has been set up. The first evaluation shows clearly and clearly that there is an increase of 23 percent to 27 percent in July 2010. In the meantime, we are working on the next evaluation for July 2011, which will then be negotiated in this dialogue body. Mrs Unterlander! This music charter – the agreement between the music creators and the ORF – clearly states that the program sovereignty enshrined in the ORF Act remains intact. The primary criteria for use are quality and public acceptance – the music creators have agreed this together in this Charter. Overall, you may have seen this in public, the discussion climate in this dialogue body is very, very good. In the coming weeks – I think, in autumn – it will negotiate the extension of this music charter, because it is undisputed that the ORF has a meaning for the dissemination of local music or the music of musicians living in Austria. I think the ORF has shown that he has intensified his efforts. A small addition to the composition of this dialogue body, because the ORF is exemplary – which it is not otherwise – most often it is also a male domain – as far as the representation of women is concerned. In the dialogue panel there are two men and three women from the ORF, but with the music representatives – guess! – five men are in five persons. [[Call the ÖVP:Null!]] One could perhaps judge the music representatives, even women make music and could be represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14225	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14246	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Helicopter crash in Tyrol: A helicopter falls into the Achensee, there are several dead. The recovery is incredibly difficult, a large area must be locked all around so that you can carry the air for the divers. The ORF is on-site with the Landesstudio Tirol and reports in a very serious way – coordinated with the security forces – as well as on-site newspaper journalists. Only a television team tramples over the lockout, over the air supply hoses. It is a team of “thema”. The ORF sends a second team from Vienna and hours later a third team from the “time in the picture” who know nothing about each other. The Tiroler Landesstudio does not know that two more television teams come from Vienna, even the additional cameras had not been requested by the Landesstudio Tirol. They act as if they were above the law, do not coordinate at all and act at the place of the event – even in contrast to the private stations from Germany – similar to Hooligans. That's not an individual case, and it wouldn't matter because luckily nothing happened. However, it is our responsibility to think about these many, many individual cases in which the ORF is completely uncoordinated – and coordination must take place at the top – to send several television teams to the same locations for the same stories. I am firmly convinced that the main unique feature of the ORF is the diversity in the federal states. We have excellent federal studios, and their capacity is not greatly tapped and exploited. They are doing half an hour of program – as far as television is concerned – and they would like to provide – these are great young people – occasionally with a “thematic” report. If I ask if the Tyrolean, the Vorarlberger or any other country studio cannot also make a “thematic” story, I hear from the headquarters in a Viennaic abjection –: No, the federal states can't. – Then there is a lack of training, even if I want to doubt it quite clearly. Then you hear from Vienna again that you need the view over the big whole – in brackets: They only have the Wiener, who can by no means have a Tyrolean, no Carinthian and no steirer. In this company are simply millions buried, Because the potential of many, many young people in the Bundesländerstudios is not exhausted, not tapped, not turned out to be nothing, and in a secluded, centralist way of the leadership says that all of this has to be done by the Vienna headquarters. As it is also a matter of great cost efficiency, I would like to ask that these conditions for the state studios and thus for the entire ORF, which would be more distinctive by more reporting from the countries, different aspects and different country views and not the same unit size as RTL, SAT 1 and the other German private stations. I think this is overdue for the benefit of the company, and I hope it will be launched.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14295	The next speaker was Mr Prehauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14316	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The ORF 2010 report is indeed a very good report, a successful justification for the past financial year. However, it also shows that Parliament, together with the ORF leadership, takes the right decisions if, according to bad reports 2008 and 2009, you take precautions in good time, and that success paths can be taken. I am optimistic that in future the mistakes of the past will be learned and the path of financial security will be given in the future of the ORF. But I do not belong to those who want to prescribe to the ORF what programmes he has to design. There's a legal order, that's not a question. In the end, however, it is the responsibility of operators to offer interesting programme so that they have a corresponding hearing range. They will then be measured. I am not, however, one of those who will be delighted when someone comes out with a fixed budget that he gives himself. This includes something more than a happy hand, including a sense of responsibility. Mr State Secretary! On this occasion I can also say that I am one of those who support the private sector of broadcasting, television. The Federal Government, the Parliament has done good work with a law, with the support of the press promotion for private radio operators, which allows to offer a programme in this area beyond the normal requirement. If you are paid only by what you achieve to listeners – that is, a programme that forces you to listen – then of course a young medium, which is in the concept of being built up, can be very, very difficult in competition, although the regional report is very well received, is particularly important for smaller regions and in the future will also be very important in the information rail. I mean, such a medium has even more the opportunity to go into smaller areas than the ORF is able to do so. Mrs. Hakl, it is not always the case that the ORF is attacking with three different teams. There are sometimes also mutual complements, which are ultimately necessary in the event of a corresponding economic attitude. They're there, too. Sometimes this can help to make it the case in your example, but I believe that in reality, special attention is paid to the use of synergies. So I can say again: After the last report, we have had the right consequences. Now we have a report in front of us, which is forward-looking from my point of view and which gives us reason to hope that the ORF will find its way out in the future without gross support from the sack of others.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14364	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Jarolim is speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14386	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's almost all been said. In summary, I think those who are trying to make the ORF sick have to write again in the main book that we were able to achieve an excellent economic result in 2010. This is certainly to be attributed to the management of the company. We have also made a corresponding change in the staff level, which has always been demanded, and especially in the field of documentation, we have experienced a number of excellent, quality programmes. That's the point, I think. Of course, public broadcasting must have a corresponding offer in competition with BBC and other such channels, and this has certainly been very successful here. The ORF TV library is something that ensures a high level of topicality in the pursuit of the programme in everyday life for those who cannot immediately see the programme. I think there is information in different density at the Landesstudios. I would say that, in Lower Austria, it is certainly in that area where the question is whether it is sometimes too close – I admit, even in other federal states. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That says a...! That's what a...!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] – That's why I say it because I always notice that in a great domination one and the same person is represented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] There is often the question of whether this makes sense as much sense as we have just discussed with my colleague Herbs. What I would like to say is that it is also important to act here with special courage, and that this cannot be agreed upon to the ORF, especially when I look at this story around Ed Moschitz. It has succeeded in rebutting the absolutely unfounded accusation put in the room by Mr Strache that something would have been faked. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Well, after, after, after!]] I have to say, I congratulate the ORF for actually holding it against this. It was rejected, the tapes were examined. [[call to the FPÖ]] In criminal proceedings, it was found that there is no evidence. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] In the final effect, the journalist who did this was rightly awarded a prize. I believe that one has shown here with persistence, commitment, honesty and also inimmediacy, what a public medium really owes us. In this sense, I would like to thank you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14464	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on item 2, request by the Constitutional Committee to take note of this annual report 2010 of the ORF pursuant to § 7 of the ORF Act, submitted by the Federal Chancellor (III-249/1311 of the Supplements). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on item 3 of the agenda, request by the Committee on Culture, to take note of its report in 1379. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. [[14:26:39]] 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the legislative proposal of the Federal Council (1213, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Law to strengthen the rights of the communities (1313 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1574/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues on administrative reform in Austria, Part 1: Municipal level (1314 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14531	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Musiol. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14558	High house! This law is an initiative of the Federal Council – this is reflected in the title – to strengthen the rights of the communities. It is planned that the district headquarters should be able to work together cross-border, so that community associations, which already exist, can perform not only individual tasks, but all and that there should also be cross-border community associations. This is a good step, not a question, but not necessarily a big step; you have to say that. We could take even greater steps in the sense of a meaningful administrative reform, because of course this is the following question: How to deal with the fact that there are many small communities that carry out all of their tasks, but which could probably be more efficient – or rather secure – if they fulfil some of these tasks together or all of these tasks, thus joining together. In this context, however, it could also be discussed whether mergers would not be a useful step at all. Other countries, federal states in other countries have made this quite clear – Schleswig-Holstein in Germany, for example, Denmark. They have launched a very consistent administrative reform within the framework of the municipalities with different phases. In the first phase, they have provided financial incentives for cooperation for voluntary mergers, and in a second phase, these mergers have usually passed into a certain size from a certain point of view. You could think about it, too. I have already said that these are useful steps, but the crucial point – and this is also the reason why we cannot agree here – is that all these administrative reform projects, all issues relating to efficiency, reform of our state, reform of the tasks, transformation also of legislative bodies can and should take place only in the light of the following basic principles: On the one hand, these are close to citizens and transparency for citizens, who is responsible for the task to be done at all. Secondly, legal protection. It must not be possible for any changes in our administrative system to result in citizens being cut off from legal protection, from their ability to object and appeal against decisions. Thirdly, these are democratic principles. This is where I come to our reservations about this project. Community associations usually have a general assembly consisting of representatives of the municipalities. As a rule, this will be the mayors, a maximum of a few other representatives of the large groups. However, the smaller groups will not be represented in these assemblies. If we take our right to vote seriously and say that, depending on the right to vote, those who have exceeded a certain limit, a certain percentage limit, then this must also go through any form of organisation that stands above it. [[Abg. Donabauer: This is inefficient!]] That is why we have already made the proposal in the Committee – and I will now also make this amendment – that the municipal councillors, the political mandaters at least in the municipalities, should be given the opportunity to have the right to question these associations in order to be able to make real use of their control rights. You say that's inefficient. I say that is democracy, that is consistent democracy. [[Abg. Donabauer: You can do this in the council!]] In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is an essential point for us. If you cannot agree to this, we will not be able to accept this law, even if it is a real signal. This law, however, unfortunately contains this limitation, which is very important for democracy. On the request of the BZÖ, which we also supported in committee: What I particularly like about this proposal is the principle of direct democracy which has been raised. We are also standing for this, and we have been demanding it for many years. When it comes to bringing people into new organizational structures, it is important to take into account that – and that is what we have discussed in the Committee – many people identify themselves with the name of their community and continue to want to stay MeidlingerIn, TelfserIn, MödlingerIn or whatever. In the case of a possible merger, which would be quite efficient and useful as previously, one should retain an important part of the participatory and direct democratic process. We therefore welcome the proposal, and we also voted in favour of it in committee. [[Abg. Donabauer: Not us!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14640	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14695	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14716	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! In principle, I consider this request by the Federal Council to be a very targeted way of implementing administrative reform. We not only allow the interaction of the communities limited to some individual tasks, but also open the doors in the administrative field to form associations. In addition, these associations are not only possible within the districts, but also across district borders or national borders. I think that these administrative associations will be the future and will allow savings without restrictions of their own municipal autonomy. I believe that this must be done if we want the citizen to get correct information from the first instance, at its starting point, and that our ever-developed legal system also involves common lawyers in an association without allowing the costs to be spent. I think that this is a very reasonable arrangement. Mrs Colleague, on the amendment: I'm sorry, but that would be a little exaggeration. If ten municipalities, each of which has 20 councils, join together, we suddenly have a body of 200 persons, each of which can consult the managing director. I mean, that would go in the wrong direction. [[Abg. Donabauer: Completely unrealistic!]] This is already a too far-reaching democratic policy approach. I think it is reasonable because we have added the following to our own request from the Federal Council in the Constitutional Committee: "The institutions of the municipal associations, which are to be responsible for the affairs of the community's own sphere of activity, must be formed in accordance with democratic principles." That is to say, we state to the state legislator that the election of representatives in the association has to take place in the municipal council so that democracy policy legitimacy is given. But also the mayor, who represents the community outside and sits in the association, must always speak and answer questions and information about this association. I think the regulation would shoot something beyond the target if 200 municipal representatives... Where do you make the meeting if they all have to ask the managing director? [[Abg. Donabauer: Insanity!]] It is a purely practical and not a political question why you do not want it. I don't think that's organizational.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14767	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14788	Mr President. High house! We should not pretend that the Federal Council had reinvented the wheel. Mr Pendl has had a proper approach in the Committee. You have to look at how this affects in practice now. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the current constitutional situation, the municipalities already have the opportunity to form in their own sphere of activity administrative communities or community associations, also in high-level matters, not only in matters of the private administration of the municipalities. You just don't. Everyone just wants to manage his little empire. That is, without pressure – and that can only be the pressure of the empty cash register or the legislative pressure, and it is not in there – nothing will move.The only qualitative difference is that matters of the sovereignty administration of the transferred area of activity can now also be included, that is, in good German the reporting system. That's the main point. But in its own field of activity, especially in the field of spatial planning and construction law, the municipalities have so far had virtually no cooperation at all, although it would make the most sense there. [[Abg. Donabauer: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's just an impulse!]] – What does that mean, Impulse? What do you mean, that's not true? – Of course it is! That's exactly what the mayor's biggest intrusion tool is. That's why they don't want to give it. That is why this is hardly happening in practice. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Donabauer: You have no idea!]] – I already have an idea, local law is one of my special areas. [[Abg. Grill: Where were you mayor?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Donabauer: It finds in practice...!]] That's hardly happening. Mr President, I should like to thank It is only in the field of tax collection. It is primarily the waste and canal charges or the disposal charges for green waste, but not the public authorities' procedures under construction law. Only where the communities are absolutely overwhelmed and no longer able to afford their own building office will such things take place carefully. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Donabauer.]] That is why this is not the big throw. That's smooth nonsense. It will only be necessary to see if this so-called impulse will at all suffice. In my opinion, a sufficient impulse will only be given if the cash registers are empty once. I would like to give you another example of where the respective levels of cooperation would have long been possible by constitutional means. In 1920 the model of the so-called "territorial community" was discussed intensively between red and black. What the Federal Council now demands is nothing but a kind of territorial community. At that time the black vehement was against because they did not want to. Now, through the Federal Council at once, such a concept as the local community comes. Ladies and gentlemen! Article 120 would allow this to happen to this day, since 70, 80 years that would have already been laid down in the Constitution. Read the article 120 of our federal constitution! You'll find that we didn't need a federal council to do this. Now the Federal Council is acting as if it had at last proved its right of existence by inventing something that has long been laid down in the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! On such a federal council I'm officially pawping. If that is all the Federal Council is doing, then as has often been proved, this body is superfluous like a crook. This second chamber would be the first area where we could show that, as politicians, we are serious about narrowing things by abolishing the Federal Council. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the “great throw”, then the Federal Council, with this draft, has provided evidence that it is unnecessary. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Herzegovina! Mr Pendl! Mr Wittmann – This is personal! The only thing that makes real sense is the question to what extent the concept of the city is still entitled with its own statute. So we have Wiener Neustadt-Bezirk, Wiener Neustadt-Stadt, Krems-Land, Krems-Stadt. Ladies and gentlemen! No human can afford such a double structure today, in relation to such a small city as Wiener Neustadt, which is relatively larger than Krems, but even less for as small cities as Eisenstadt or Krems. It is ten times more honest if you disband the cities with your own status as district administration bodies and simply assign them to the relevant district headquarters, which are mostly in the city concerned. This is easier, would be ten times more administrative economic and does not need any federal council either. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think that the dictatorship of the empty cash register should be cleaned up over a short or long time with these historically traditional facilities. For administrative reasons, we must abolish such favorite toys of some mayors, such as a city with its own status as a district administration authority. We just can't afford it anymore. These double devices are expensive. If someone still hangs on his license, then this should be the case, but it is all the same about administering a county headquarters. It is not expected that the Vöcklabruck County Head Team will cooperate with the Salzburg-Land District Head Team. It is rather a question of whether the Krems-Land County Team will cooperate with the city of Krems with its own statute. That's the question. It's ten times more honest to say: It regulates this at the level at which the authorities of general government are regulated, and simply creates cities with their own status as district authorities. This is faster and does not need a long, cumbersome procedure as the Federal Council has foreseen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14917	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Lopatka. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e14949	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In one, I can give honourable Member Stadler the right, that is to say, as regards the question of cities with their own statute. We should really discuss whether it is still necessary to maintain such structures in a timely and effective manner today. However, I strongly disagree with this downturn in the Federal Council's initiative. On the other hand, it is always complained that there is a standstill. [[Abg. Grosz: Yes! There's that too!]] The Federal Council is putting something in motion. He implements something that has already been recorded in the Austrian Convention. The opposition, in this case the BZÖ, does not fit again. [[Abg. Grosz: For 60 years we needed the Federal Council to do something!]] Congratulations to Gottfried Kneifel, the chairman of the Federal Council of the first half of the year, and to all those who supported him in this initiative! She's going a hundred percent in the right direction. We have potential for savings in this area, because so far much has happened side by side. Just think: the Standesamtsverband, in addition to the Citizenship Association, the Social Assistance Association, the Hospital Association, the School Community Association, the Waste Management Association, Road Management Associations, and, and, everything next to each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Of course, a lot can be brought together. Mr Stadler really disagrees with reality. Come to the Styria! I'll invite you. Cooperation has already progressed very far in detail there with the support of the country. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I already know that!]] There are only more incentives in the country due to small regional development concepts if cooperation is regulated. [[Abg. Donabauer: He doesn't know that!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I'm just telling you. There is no longer any Community support, but the investment necessary for the small region. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Enter the local communities immediately, that goes faster!]] The fact that micro-communities and small communities come to the conclusion that they want to take the step to a community merger beyond this cooperation is what is now being discussed in Styria. In addition to cooperation in dozens of communities, these groupings will also come into being, and I am firmly convinced of that. This will be done taking into account this small-scale identity – which has been tailor-made by MP Musiol – by thinking about the fact that a corresponding municipal representation is also elected at this local level. In Styria, for example, we have the instrument of local leaders. Of course, what was initiated by the Federal Council makes sense: to sum up community associations and shape them flexibly. If you notice that you can still do tasks, you have no legal obstacles to strengthen these community associations. I tell you, we can be quite grateful to the Federal Council for this initiative, and I also hope that it is not the last initiative taken by the Federal Council. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He does not accept the concept of the community, and that is obsolete!]] That is certainly not an opinion. I do not see that as the communities have enormous importance, regardless of their size, for more than a hundred years, especially in a Europe that is growing together. Where are people to find their home? Where is honoraryness to be strengthened? [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Constitutional Concept of the Unity Community! There never was!]] - Okay, but again: This is not the point of this initiative. It is a matter of making it a matter of facilitating the cooperation of communities, of strengthening the communities and of not agreeing with the small communities their right to remain as independent communities. That is why this is a positive initiative by the Federal Council, which would deserve the support of all political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15080	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15101	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lopatka, how badly must it be ordered by the Federal Council if such a law – which we support in principle – is already hailed as the “epochal performance” of this Chamber of State?- Oh, my God! There is no more evidence of the criticism that Mr Stadler has also put forward. How many years has the Federal Council taken to submit such a bill? [[Abg. Grosz: 60 years!]] It was also addressed to the Constitutional Convention. For 18 months, we have taken a great deal of positive initiatives. If we always have to wait for the Federal Council to bring in such small discs, perhaps we should extend the Federal Council or bring in five other country chambers. You're going to cheer that up. If we want to make the administration and legislation more efficient, it would be more sensible to abolish the Federal Council as the Chamber of State or at least to reduce it and to send it to members of the Landtag, who could then in a dual function result in the participation of the countries in the federal legislation. This would be a useful measure to increase efficiency and save costs. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On matter: Mr Lopatka! Of course, we believe that the community itself should be strengthened in its importance. There's the administration on the citizen's side. There is also very positive work, often unfortunately – after what does it mean? - Look. [[Abg. Donabauer: Look!]] [[Abg. Donabauer: I said look!]] After hearing it's even better. There is nothing to watch now, but to listen and also to read a lot, Mr Colleague. We have adopted a comprehensive approach to administrative reform and the upgrading of the communities. I'd like to make that available to you. Perhaps you can talk with your colleagues and colleagues from the Federal Council – perhaps from there in the next five or ten years something nice – about how we can implement it once more, really strengthen the communities, but at one time break the levels above, where really only administration has been done, bureaucracy lived and the Theresian administration principle in the 21st century. ==References====External links== Those would be interesting things. [[BZÖ and Abg. Donabauer.]] We have tabled a request from Klubobmann Bucher, who is still in the debate today. Unfortunately, you rejected that. [[Abg. Donabauer: I just applauded!]] - Yes, wonderful, thank you. Dear colleague! I thank you even more if you get up when it comes to our request, and I agree with him. Unfortunately, he has been rejected by your group in the committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] The objective of larger units should be pursued accordingly, micro-communities should be summarized as far as possible at the administrative level – the local panels can already stand there, that is not the problem. We have proposed a indicative size of 2,500 inhabitants as a lower limit. Of course, this is to be done because of a direct democratic decision by the population and not against the will of the population. Where the population wants communities to be grouped together, their structures are put together and the administration is designed cost-effectively and efficiently, this is to be made possible. I invite you to consider your rejection, which you have shown in the Committee, and to take this important step, which is at least as big and important as this initiative of the Federal Council, together with us today. [[Abg. Wheeler: Incorrect!]] [[Call the BZÖ: You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Grosz: That’s what the “Erwinist” says! The cult leader...]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15239	The next speaker was Mr Linder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15260	Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The request of the Federal Council is certainly to be welcomed. I do not think it can be said that communities that are willing to reform, who are willing to change, work together, even across borders, are hampered by laws. For me, a little ironic is that the Federal Council is driving the Federal Government. SPÖ and ÖVP propose that the Federal Government should finally proceed with the administrative reform. I think this morning we heard from my colleague Herb once: The standstill is not there at all. If a party in the Federal Council doubts about its own federal government and submits applications, I think that is very significant. I come to the issue of community groupings. Again and again, this Mär – also now again by my colleague Scheibner – is being presented: Community combinations are important to work efficiently to save costs. I'll add a few numbers so that you can break them on the tongue once: In small municipalities 299 € per person are spent on staff. In municipalities with 10 000 inhabitants, this value increases to € 560 and in municipalities with more than 20 000 inhabitants to € 765 per citizen. The economic power, the money to be invested, lies in municipalities with up to 2,500 inhabitants at €394 per citizen, in municipalities with over 10,000 inhabitants at €341 and with over 20,000 inhabitants at €275 per citizen. Of course, it is very interesting to do so in return. Local authorities with up to 10 000 inhabitants receive approximately € 645 per capita in income, and for municipalities with over 50 000 inhabitants, € 934 is also explained where the costs are in the administration. The larger the community, the greater the unit, the higher the administrative costs per citizen. Per citizen, please. Per citizen! [[Abg. Grosz: That's logical! That's clear!]] That is why we say: Smaller units are cheaper. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] – Yes, then please do not call for the merger of the large communities! Here you go! Per citizen! Per head! Per head! Per head! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Graz with 263,000 inhabitants is a huge business!]] [[Abg. Grosz: While small communities...!]] The administrative costs are very interesting: The administrative costs alone in small municipalities amount to € 266 per citizen, in municipalities with 20 000 to 50 000 inhabitants amount to € 433 per citizen and in municipalities with more than €50 000 per citizen. Ladies and gentlemen! The country of Carinthia has made a municipal reform in 1973. At the time, it has reduced from around 230 municipalities to 120 municipalities. One thing came out quite clearly: The forecast savings have not been received in Weitem. We have experienced it in our own community. We were merged with the neighboring community from 1973 to 1991 and separated again in 1991. The administrative costs of both municipalities have fallen. [[Call to the ÖVP:Resolved?]] – They have dropped in comparison with the time we were in the large community. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that should give us a slow way to think. In the small community the administration is efficient, manageable, the citizen is still willing to volunteer, many things still work on a voluntary basis, for example fire brigade, neighborhood aid, social assistance. These are all things that must be paid in the large community and carried out by paid organizations. That is why, I think, one should finally stop with this march of money saving large communities. I think we have the evidence, we know how it looks, we have experienced it ourselves in our community. That is why I think we should just stay on the ground and accept that small communities are working much more efficiently.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15359	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15382	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Please, my colleague. [[Abg. Grosz: Thank you!]] You're allowed to be kind, aren't you? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Uh, but not so much!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But not to us...!]] If you listen to the discussion, I think there is certainly a segment in every speech that you can say is right. But I ask you to think about it. No one has anything against it, Mr Scheibner, if we do so voluntarily together in the political field, in the economic field and together in the high-level field. Everyone will say: That's right! But if we want to take the concerns of the Austrian communities seriously – Mr Stadler, I have already tried that in committee, you all need to look at the numbers – then we have to consider a problem. We have the problem that not the entire financial strength of the communities is involved in the own sphere of activity of the cities and communities, but we know that they come together for hospital financing and for the social sector. This is the core problem of the Austrian cities and communities. And now we can legitimately discuss all the other areas. But if we hide these important and biggest chunks, we won't solve the problem. I think we should not ridicule the initiative of the Federal Council, nor play it down, because it clearly goes in the right direction from the trend. We should therefore take up every contribution, and this is probably a laborious process. We are a state, no matter how everyone stands for it. So we know how policies are being made on these three levels in our beloved Republic for decades. But you just have to sit down, you have to advertise, you have to invite and see that you come to a solution. If we take closeness to citizens seriously, I believe that the municipal level is clearly the most important. And if we take the concerns and needs seriously, then we must simply work out solutions to ensure that the municipalities have an orderly, above all a financially ordered future. Unfortunately, Mrs Musiol is not present. If you have listened to the various contributions to the debate, you know that there are different opinions: big, small, each individual should speak for himself. [[Abg. Wheeler: Grosz!]] Mr Wittmann has referred to this. So there should be an association somewhere. I say now, if these are seven or ten communities – we have some, there are 30 communities there – if you put all the councils in there and then the citizens to do so, then you don't have to do it at all. It won't be possible to handle it anymore. This is not anti-democratic – for God's sake – but democratically elected legitimate organs are then sent there and will try to solve it together. [[Abg. Wheeler: world stranger!]] So we have to confess to some solution. I don't think anyone's gonna stop us. We could, of course, use the government to develop ideas in this direction as well as as the Federal Council. We should discuss these issues very objectively, because not only the people in the Austrian communities and cities, but above all the 235 communities have a right to seriously discuss this issue. That is why I welcome this initiative, support it passionately, and invite everyone to give their consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15476	The next speaker is Mr Donnerbauer. I would point out, however, that we only have two minutes left until the short debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15499	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor of the smallest city in Austria, Hardegg, I am of course pleased with this initiative. There has also been a great deal of discussion in this debate about the benefits, the possibilities that this legislative proposal of the Federal Council will give in the future. No one has claimed that this is the biggest throw, Mr Stadler or colleague Scheibner, or anyone who has always claimed it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] This is a step towards greater flexibility in cooperation, in the cooperation of the communities, and this possibility will also be used, just as it is already being used against some claims. Once again, I would like to say something about the many statements and allegations that have always been made in the media coverage – Mr Linder said it rightfully – that a recent investigation from the previous year showed – he quoted the figures – and the administrative costs per citizen are almost three times as high among the largest municipalities as the smallest communities. But not only the administrative costs, but also the total expenditure for small municipalities is €2,194 per head, with large over €3,500 per head. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] So, in the merger is not our salvation, but it is about promoting and supporting cooperation. The municipalities are also ready to do this. And that, I think, will also bring this request. That is why I am seeking your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15546	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the current item on the agenda. [[15:00:39]] Short debate on the reply to the question 8096/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15567	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 8096/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Hübner as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15597	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The subject of this request is indirectly the subject of privatisation. Privatizations are in principle something cheap. In many cases, they lead to a narrower, more cost-effective and politically independent task, but they must be done in a clean manner and with a separation of public and private sectors, and not à la Mubarak or à la Ben Ali, as we have experienced in other countries. [[Call the SPÖ: What are these comparisons?- Oh, my God!]] – These are comparisons, whose true character I will now present a little before I come to the request answer myself. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] It is not a question of the head of state or the government giving their family to the state companies, but it is about an act of transparency and an act of interconnecting private and public interests, which is at least quite alone in the Austrian legal order. Let's go through this for a second. The state printing company, formerly a monopoly-like authority for the production of printed matter in the field of security of the Republic of Austria, of documents, but also of publications such as federal law papers, “Wiener Zeitung” and the like, was privatized in 2000/2001. There is a holding company, the Austrian state printing company Holding AG, and, among other things, an operating daughter, that is the Austrian state printing company GmbH. Privatization took place completely, 100 percent. Today, this holding company, i.e. the carrier company, is owned by two foundations, two foundations, which in turn belong to foundations, private foundations of individuals, these are the Mr. Strohmayer and Schachter. In these private foundations there are no apparent beneficiaries, but the private foundations, which the foundations have donated, have on each occasion reserved the right to appoint the Foundation beneficiary. This gives the maximum transparency and the maximum prevention of a clear view of the economically behind it. My colleague, Mr Rosenkranz, who is also on the list of speakers, will subsequently say something to those who are economically behind it, so that I do not have to deviate from the structure itself. Now this privatisation would be in order – as already stated in the introduction – if there were not the further state printing law of 1996. This State Printing Act is set out in § 2 para. 3 presuppose that the federal authorities are in principle obliged to have print products produced in the state printing sector for the Federal Offices in whose production process is to be kept secret or to comply with security regulations – in a private company that continues to call itself “state printing”. It would, of course, also be to be questioned that someone who is fully privatized is in an anonymous ownership of the foundation, acting externally as a “state printing company” – of course with the Bundesadler – and also acquires it abroad under the name ‘state printing’, for example in Romania and Bulgaria. But let's get this out of here. Now there is, of course, because the law has provided that it is in the interest of the taxpayer, at least the exception that this obligation does not exist if the state printing company is unable to produce the product at market prices, or if another offers more favourable prices with the same other conditions and safety promises. So we come from a monopoly to a first-rate right, so the state printing has the first right, and only when another overbites it does not come to the train. This is more than strange in a privatized enterprise. I've never heard anyone come up with the idea, a change to the state printing law, at least his § 2 para. 3 to demand. Now Mr Jarolim – and now we are coming back to the area of the actual question – has asked the Minister of the Interior a lot of questions. This is the request that is based on today's short debate. We have joined this request and have also asked other ministries, as he has sent the request only to the Ministry of the Interior, which orders were awarded to the state printing company and which volumes were covered by these orders. We have also received accurate information from the two ministries that have awarded orders, both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Transport, for example, was concerned with driving licences, with e-cards at the Ministry of Health – and that was all right. And here, from the Ministry of the Interior, the largest customer of state printing at Weitem – I just need to remember the topic of passport – we do not get anything back here. Not us, but Mr Jarolim will not get anything back. The Minister – still your predecessor at the time – states that she refers to a 2009 request for an already asked question as to the question of revenue that the state printing company makes with internal ministerial orders. If one now reads in the 2009 request response, the Minister of the Interior informs that she cannot give these answers for reasons of data protection and to protect the competitive position of the Austrian state printing company GmbH. Look at that! So apparently the other Ministries are taking office abuse, break data protection and violate the business interests of Staats printerei GmbH, only the Ministry of the Interior – or, this is the second possibility, the Ministry of the Interior has something to hide here. For this second analysis of the facts, I tend to think that it is a violation of business secrets, if one is aware of the extent to which one has given orders to state printing and what turnover has been achieved, I cannot imagine at least with my modest legal knowledge as a lawyer. There are, of course, some interesting questions in this context. Since we have no indication that any other contract in this field than that has ever been awarded to state printing since privatisation, i.e. since 2000/2001, the question is: What has happened to the citizen or to the taxpayer for a damage? How much more have you paid here than if there had been reasonable, commercially acceptable prices, as required by the State Printing Act? We have looked a little bit after the cost of the passport has increased again. We are already present, I think, 71 € reached. There are also explanatory comments on the regulations, from which one can see the proportion of the costs of the foreign sector, i.e. the proportion of the services purchased – at the passport of the purchased passport and its data supply by the State printing company GmbH – have. And that's where you'll find the unimportant sum of more than €28. Thus, the state printing company receives more than €28 for the production and data-based feeding – even that makes it – of a passport. If you now keep in mind the volume of the order – you can easily determine it by checking how many passports in Austria are re-allocated each year – there are about half a million – then you can imagine how cheap it is for the Staats printerei GmbH to be the calculation and what coverage contribution you earn with 28 €. This will probably also be the reason for the significant price differences, or – the name “price” is perhaps wrong now – price/paying differences that the Austrian citizen has to buy when paying his documents, compared to other countries. For example, we have been paying for the passport since 1. July exactly 75,90 € – in Germany you pay 37,50 € until 24 years and then 59 €. It is even more blatant in the identity card, also a monopoly product of state printing. There you pay €61.50 in Austria, €28.80 in Germany, where the German identity card, which is like ours in the form of a checkcard, even has special functions, is on-line ID functions, thus significantly upgraded compared to the Austrian one. The Austrian state printing product lacks all these functions. Now, of course, there is also the explanation that, anyway, all this is incredibly cheap, what the state printing is doing, and only our surcharges are enormous, that we are getting huge basket money from the citizens by spending 300, 400 percent on the cost of building. Because of the transparency, however, there is also the presumption that we may be buying extremely unfavourably here. That is why it is amazing for an unconventional petitioner and parliamentarian that the Ministry of the Interior refuses such a simple and self-evident response. And we have decided, on this question and on the grounds of refusal, on the actual figures, on the award of contracts, on the position of state printing in the context of the award of contracts by the Ministry of the Interior and on the question of why other companies were not invited or did not come to the train to organise a small debate in which the Minister of the Interior will certainly give us all these information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15641	The speaking time of the Members who are now speaking is 5 minutes each. Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15665	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I cannot add to this very detailed presentation of my question, even if I did not refer the question to you, Mr Commissioner, a lot. I think it would be reasonable if one could do something in this context to see if the figures were right. I have not researched it so thoroughly, I must say, as you are, Mr President, but it has, in any case, been a bit unfortunate for me that the answer has been done in one, we say, less densely than the answers given by the other Ministries after the copy of this request and after the dispatch. I don't think any more can be said about it from my point of view. I don't actually have an occasion either. It has been the second request. I have put the second question because the first question has been answered with what has been presented here today, and I have not been particularly satisfied with it. The discussion that has taken place once and for all after this request, in different contexts and with different refreshments, you know, I think, anyway. This has led to very unpleasant, at least for me, jobs which, from my point of view, have passed the point of view. To that end, I can only say that if this is in the room, as the colleague has done, then it is in the room. Of course, one can say something or another. Maybe that's still happening. I can't say it myself anymore because I was the questioner. That's what it says. Today as a question here in space. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15702	Mr Mag. Donnerbauer is now speaking. - Please. [[Abg. Brosz: Business treatment!]] Mr Donnerbauer, one second. Mr Brosz spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15737	Madam President. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that we had several times in the debate on questions, that it is the political group's wish that the Minister/Minister should give a replica after the first report. We know that this is not enforceable by business regulations, but it was in itself, I think, also in agreement that the meaning of the debate will be fulfilled if there is an opportunity to address the arguments of the ministers. I would You are asking for this to be done now and, if necessary, the club members of the government groups are calling on the ministers to draw attention once again to the fact that this would significantly improve and facilitate the debate, in particular for the opposition groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15768	Mr Brosz, you have already pointed out that we have no scope for business regulation. For business treatment: Member of the Court of Justice. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15795	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Of course it is true that the Rules of Procedure do not necessarily provide for this, but there are many things here in the House that we treat as open rules of the game. It is very difficult for us mandates to go deeper into the debate if we do not know how to answer open questions. That is why we also ask for an opinion to be delivered.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15834	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15855	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think it was all said. It is open to the Minister, the Minister, when he or she gives the corresponding answers, and I think it is not so important for us either when we get answers, but that we get them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] I cannot give these answers either, of course, but I would like to address this matter in general. I think it was in this request. the answer also provides answers. It is not true that no answers were given here. It was very detailed in the answer to question 1 mentioned various orders from 2001 to 2010. Starting from the components for access control, video speaker, monitoring monitors, logo and so on, and so on, concrete details were actually made. That is to say, these concrete orders, which were asked here, were called, perhaps, no sums for them. There are, of course, also reasons why a member of the Executive Government is not allowed to provide concrete information here. Whether these are here, of course, I cannot judge, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. But you all know that there are also confidentiality provisions in the procurement procedure. It is also about business secrets, which can be true, so that they may be answers that cannot be given. It is precisely up to the respective member of the government to assess what answers are possible and what is not. In general, however, I would like to address something else because what Mr Hübner has said is correct from the principle. I can confirm that for my group too. We have always been in favour of and always have been in favour of the State buying economically, of the efficient and economic functioning of awards, and of ensuring that the rules are complied with accordingly. There are numerous legal provisions for public procurement: There's the federal procurement law. There is EU law that guarantees free and fairer competition. There is a ban on transparency, a ban on discrimination from different providers. The issue is that the award is also made to professional and reliable companies. All of this can not only be controlled by Parliament, but also, of course, by the officials and the ministers responsible, and above all, all these criteria can also be controlled by co-contractors. There are very clear but also very efficient and effective procedures, as well as contributors, when they believe that awarding provisions have not been complied with, can respond to them. That is to say, the provisions that exist have obviously been complied with. There is no evidence that this would put anyone in any way into question. In addition, there are, of course, internal provisions and regulations in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, as well as the way in which to deal with forgiveness. It is not true that the Minister is simply carrying out an award. There are departments, there are internal rules, how to proceed, who makes what call for tender, up to what order value which rules must be respected. All of this has been clearly answered in this response to the question that all these rules have also been fully observed on point and inline. That means, if there are any doubts here, then this was articulated today, then of course this should also be discussed and, if possible, answered. But I do not think that this answer is necessarily a reason for this debate. It is a business law, but I believe that a request has been answered on several sides. If there is a need for addition here, then it will certainly still be in line. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15924	It now has Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. [[Abg. Grosz: Go, bravo!]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Grosz.]] The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e15963	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! Of course, I give you supplementary answers today. [[Call:Thank you]] The answers have been received from our ministry on the basis of your request, in time and comprehensively. No subject at all, this is of course for us and lies in our responsibility. But I would also like to take the opportunity to give you some basic information here. I should like to refer briefly to the statements made by Mr Hübner, who has put forward allegations here, which I must reject here in this House with all due diligence, or I cannot accept these accusations, because you are aware of the fact that the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs is keeping to the legal and legal requirements on the point and the point. That was so in the past, is so in the present and will also be so in the future, dear Mr. Hübner! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say to you that even if you repeat these accusations again a hundred times, the accusations will not be more correct, nor will they become more true. These accusations must be rejected by hand. But perhaps in general for you, and Mr Donnerbauer, it has already been announced that it is natural that there are very clear directives there, quite clear rules. For us as the Federal Ministry of the Interior, it is a matter of course that we adhere to the European requirements that we comply with Austrian legislation. I may be able to explain to you what principles are important to us and according to which principles we are working very clearly. First of all, the rules on competition. Of course, competition is a freer and louder one, of course we adhere to the transparency bid, i.e. decisions are made in such a way that they are gradually comprehensible. There are therefore very clear criteria on our part, as is required. Of course, no one is discriminated against by us, and of course the award to companies, where we know that they are capable of being professionally competent and that we can rely on them. That is, as I mean, a very important point, because it is simply about important agendas of the Ministry of the Interior. They asked why so many orders go to state printing: It must be clear to you that, in the case of procurement, we are, of course, obliged to the taxpayer that, in principle, we make all decisions in accordance with the principle of the cheapest bidder or the economically most favourable offer and that we check the appropriate price. I think that can be understood here in the past. It is clear, of course, Mr President, that we really respect every bidder's rights, that they are also important to us and that we do not violate these rights in any way. Anyone who knows me knows that the rule of law is important to me not only as an interior minister, but also as a private person. We do not need to discuss this at all, it is obvious to a hundred percent that we are obliged to act in accordance with the laws and ultimately act as well. As you know, of course, such decisions in a ministry are not prepared by a minister. This has brought you my predecessor, Mrs Fekter, of the often. Of course, this requires an extremely competent staff. I tell you quite openly and honestly here, I am not going to let the work of the staff of my Ministry of the Interior, especially the work of our experts in procurement law, because they do a good job and because they do everything to the best of knowledge and conscience. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Even if you are not right, we will continue to stick to the expertise of our officials, our experts, our award experts in the future. I should like to comment once again on what you have said, namely on the subject of state printing: Yes, you know that state printing has been privatized, that state printing is a highly respected company, a company where not only is the BMI customer, but where, above all, a lot of know-how is purchased from many countries, which can also be found in the state printing industry. The competence is appreciated by many countries, and we are envied by this competence. You also come to Vienna from many countries to take a close look at state printing, to get to know the products and to transfer the know-how to many other countries. I'm telling you, this should ultimately make us proud, and there's envy a hundred times better than pity. I think we can be proud of a company like state printing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the part of the BMI to the state printing company: Of course, we give orders to state printing, of course, there are also all legal conditions, of course we keep all the regulations, whether it be the federal procurement law, whether it be the ÖNORM A 2050 or whether it is the state printing law. All these legal requirements, all these regulations we hold high and are naturally respected. I understand the question you asked: Why do you even have to give orders to state printing? [[Call to the FPÖ: That was not the question!]] - Yes, that was one of your questions. You should write down your questions! – I believe that it is simply important and necessary to have security documents produced at state printing, because we as the Ministry of the Interior take it very seriously with data protection. Imagine that a passenger has requested a passport, the passport is produced here. I am telling you that this information is responsible for dealing with it. There is also a need for intensive, comprehensive, quality control. All of this guarantees state printing. But this is also true of other safety documents, such as the driver's license and many more, many other documents. I believe that here we simply have to be safe in terms of data protection, the security of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16028	Next, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16049	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have announced that you will give answers. You have spoken for quite a long time now, but there was not a single answer to these questions. [[It was in favour of FPÖ and BZÖ as well as representatives of the Greens.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I do not want to give up the hope that you will not fall into the same mistakes that your predecessors have made, who have acted in a kind of great cover-up here in Parliament. Ernst Strasser may be here a sy I'll be there later. You have not answered Mr Hübner's question, why two Federal Ministers can answer the question of how high the orders were there, and why the Ministry of the Interior cannot say for data protection and competition reasons, yes, we have so and so much order volume in euro. You have not been able to say why a ministry is right or wrong now or vice versa. You just didn't. The problem – if You or my colleague, Mr Donnerbauer, say that everything is in conformity with the law and that everything can be controlled – is that everything cannot be controlled because you do not give us the answers. In fact, this law is also to blame, because it says in it that public printing always has to come to the train – with a few exceptions. If one then in the ministry insists that these exceptions do not take effect, then there is no written out at all or similar. You just have to explain why a completely private company, Mrs. Federal Minister, is treated in some form by the state differently from others. We can't go here either and say that for this buffet we brought things to the k. u.k. Hofzuckerbäcker sound like that, but that's a state and business secret, otherwise, for example, we could be told how a recipe is or similar. This is how it turns out, because under the synonym of state printing, the impression is actually given by the federal coat of arms that it is something state – which is in fact no longer. The question of quality, security and data security, which is behind it, is also not guaranteed in any other private enterprise as in the “state printing” – under quotation marks. It is no longer the printing of the state, but a private, and also a very opaque construction. There we are at the point: Who's in the whole area of these constructions? – A name appears all the time, even as an advisory board: Ernst Strasser. We know what his activities, including within the framework of his companies, were; he is, after all, a predecessor of yours, in several respects, also insofar as he comes from the country of Lower Austria or from the ÖVP Lower Austria. And not only Ernst Strasser, but also almost his entire ex-cubinet roams there as managing director, as a advisory board. Mrs Bundesminister, you must, contrary to the previous practices, have a different transparency. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have to give the information, because, as Mr Hübner has already pointed out, it must be understandable to us parliamentarians why a passport of 20 € is cheaper for the citizen in the Federal Republic of Germany than in Austria. What's behind that? We do not want to express any suspicion here, because there are only two options, but we want to know which one it is. Is the cost of building too expensive, or does the state put too much on it for the citizen? That is what we want to know, and in other areas it is the same. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What data protection secrets are filed here is not the subject, but we want to know how much money the Ministry of the Interior has awarded orders. But someone else has already come up with it: The EU Commission, the competent Commissioner for the Interior, has already said that there is a partial monopoly on this issue and that it will review whether there will be an EU legal action against Austria. When this became known in advance, the magazine “profile” reported it, of course was the first – as part of its political function, please not misunderstanding, no way as a lobbyist! – Ernst Strasser there and said what's going on. Since then, you don't have much to do with it. Mrs Bundesminister, the answer to your question, which you have inherited from your predecessor, is unsatisfactory. I am therefore appointed in accordance with § 92 para. 3 GOG: Request Question No 8096/AB by the Federal Minister for the Interior on the written question 8181/J by Dr. Johannes Jarolimund other delegates to the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning the award of contracts by BMI under BM Dr. Ernst Strasser and among his successors to companies with which Dr. Ernst Strasser entered into a direct or indirect business relationship after his ministerial activity. Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner, you are only in office briefly, you have the opportunity to really ensure transparency. Don't commit the mistakes of your predecessors!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16145	The application for non-knowledge just submitted has been properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. Next, Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16170	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will agree to this request, which is a reasonable request and it is quite good that there have now been some factual objections after the fairytale-hour request of the Minister of the Interior. [[Call the FPÖ:Schulterschluss!]] Let me focus briefly on the matter: We should not ignore the fact that the current Minister for the Interior is a Strasser-Azubi, as one would say in Germany. So to an apprentice or already trained who has learned her political craft from Ernst Strasser. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Hakl and Hörl.]] [[Abg. Kößl makes the so-called windshield wiper movement.]] Of course, it is personally depressing to be obliged, not only by parliamentary inquiry, to take action against his own teacher and political educator. This is personally unpleasant, but there is nothing else left of a minister. And what is this about? – To make a serious Strasser network, to be a normal one, one of many Ernst Strasser networks. What happened? [[Abg. Toddler: Brainspins!]] – You know, the brainspinst, Mr. Col. von der ÖVP, at least presupposes the existence of a brain! Thank you for this call. [[Cheerfulness and applause among greens, BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Let's get back to the Strasser network: In 2000, the Austrian state printing company – we say carefully – has been privatized well. Shortly thereafter, long-term contracts with the state printing company on so-called integrator services have been concluded by the Ministry of the Interior – without tendering, without procurement procedures. “Integrator performance” has meant to produce the new passports, the check format-sized new documents such as driving licences and so on. The problem was just the following: Contrary to the statements of the Federal Minister, the state printing was purely technically unable to do so. It does not have the technological requirements. So she passed on these orders – and this was known in the Ministry of the Interior – to technically authorized and decorated German companies. However, this has led to the production of these documents at prices exactly twice as high as comparable in any European Union analogue country. [[Call the FPÖ:Sub-Company!]] That is, the Strasser model – right, with sub-contractors – has led to the product being twice as expensive and part of the value added has gone abroad. We do not have to complain about this within the framework of the European Union, but it is a fact. So now there is a network of Straster companies and Strassers artists all around. The most important is a certain Thomas Zach from the Strasser cabinet, which has been briefly changed to the Board of Supervisors of State Printing, where Ernst Strasser, after he was no longer a minister, was also briefly sitting, and then he became Director General of State Printing, one of the classic Strassers artists. Mrs Bundesminister, you personally need to be able to assess such careers best. These are the facts, and now the honourable Member is asking Jarolim, where he says: We just want to know. Please tell us how many orders have when and for what purpose and with what order height companies from this Strasser-ÖVP-Niederösterreich-Femigration get from the Ministry of the Interior. These are dozens, and we know that. You have not answered these questions. It is now possible to argue whether the amount should be specified in the case of underprivileged awards, but with certainty the task must be referred to Parliament itself: Which company got something. And you refuse to answer that. As an interior minister, they cover the network of Ernst Strasser, not only around Austrian state printing, but also in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Shit helmet: These are pure precepts!]] They cover a network where we may find references to personal enrichment and perhaps also party funding, because there must be a reason why there has been twice as expensive, without public tendering and in violation of awarding principles. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Jarolim has been perfectly right to ask. For the first time today, we have received the indication that there are reasons why you refuse to answer these questions against the law of interconnection, against the federal constitution and against the Rules of Procedure. We will not only find ways to get this information, but we will also see why you cover Ernst Strasser and violate your information obligations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16270	Next, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16292	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Madam President, what is the point of all this talk of transparency, of a lobbyist law, if we let a minister here simply go through, that she covers one of the biggest lobbyists, for which the law is at all discussed? What's the whole thing? Who's to be fooled? Madam President, you can also tell us that there is a minister here and the lobbyists, for which we have to discuss a lobbyist law at all – with a wall of words that was not even German, but we leave it aside, and which has nothing to do with this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Explain this to us once! [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Then, in the answer to the question, we are told that it was obviously – that was at all the best – the development and conception of a folder entitled “Stay clean”. Mrs. Minister, have you read the “Stay Clean” folder? – Yes, that's why we have to award our own contract. “Stay clean”, you could have applied this to your mentor Strasser. So if the questioner, Mr Jarolim, your own government partner, asks for revenue, then he asks for numbers – and not for the wall you have delivered to us – from one to nine in different combinations with zero. [[Cheerfulness at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] That's what sales are called. We want to know. Other ministers can call these digits, you could also do it, you just don't do it because you don't want it. And why? - Because this is an incredible swamp of abcashery. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very good, Jarolim!]] Mrs Federal Minister, don't tell us anything; You do not have to do with Mr Schwab from the Lower Austrian Land Day! You don't need to tell us that you had to order this state printing because of the secrecy – you can't tell the citizens up there either – a state printing company that had to award orders abroad in front of loud secrecy, where you could have given it yourself – without state printing, private gmbh of your friends, and the Strasser friend, your mentor's braid, which obviously washes his hands in there. This is even reflected in the text of the request. I don't know, have you even read the question before you came to Parliament here? – But then you are a risk, but for the ÖVP, if you have not even read the text of this request. It says literally, I can help you get to the jumps: “A framework agreement for the production of ID documents was concluded by the state printing company, among other things, with the two German companies Gieseke & Devi-rent GmbH and Gemalto GmbH as well as with the Swiss company Trüb AG.” – Trüb AG, yes, yes, also an interesting company. [[Abg. Grosz: “Trüb AG”!]] This is Copyright Jarolim, your own government partner, Jarolim. Yes, that is, you obviously haven't even read it through – and then tell us something about a need for secrecy. The only need for secrecy that exists is to cover the efforts of Mr Ernst Strasser, ladies and gentlemen. That's your secret interest – and not what you're trying to sell us! [[BZÖ and Greens, as well as FPÖ delegates.]] That's what's going on. We don't think this has changed since Mrs. Fekter left. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A few weeks ago, in the ministry, with high-ranking representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, but also a high-level representative of the Ministry of Justice, a secret meeting took place on how to make the Aliyev people disappear without Austria having to investigate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Look here!]] These are exactly those people where Aliyev's payments to a black company have been proven and then Mr. Aliyev and his fellow suspects, the fellow suspects, have been granted a permanent residence permit within two days by the County Headship Horn, ladies and gentlemen. This is the system that covers Mikl's head: someone who is suspected of having committed murders, tortured people, and so hard to let his ex-girlfriend in Beirut abuse that she died. These are, of course, the noble people; as long as the cash register is right, they can get a stay, ladies and gentlemen. Concept: Straster, system: Straster, Network: Strasser, covered by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Mikl- Leitner. No, well, she's his student, as we know from her own biography. Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner, if you say you want to reject allegations, I am really afraid of you as a student of Mr. Strasser's Federal Minister, for he is well known to have swung around with laptops. Ask your own Secretary-General for Smoking, who has had a head wound of it, ladies and gentlemen. You will not be able to jump this way with this Parliament! If you think you have a long future with this, I'll tell you: This Parliament will be able to defend itself against ministers like you!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16399	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request by Mrs Rosenkranz, ladies and gentlemen, not to take note of the reply to the question. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is Mr Jarolim?]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of their non-knowledge to give an appropriate sign. - That's not the majority. The application is therefore rejected. [[15:45:28]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16440	I will resume the negotiations on points 4 and 5 of the agenda. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16465	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! After this example of the moral image in Austria – the Austrian People's Party and apparently its special parts – it is clear what is happening there. [[Call BZÖ:The Austrian People's Party!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] It's incredible that we don't get any information here. We do not need to continue the debate, but it is so obvious that no one here needs to complain. You know that very well, and you yourself have your problems with my colleague Strasser, with the ex-College Strasser. Don't get him, it won't pay off. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is precisely what most of those sitting here know, and therefore we do not need to discuss it. The Federal Council has proposed a constitutional change to enable communities to work together. That certainly makes sense. We support this because there can be a more flexible solution, and that is why we are in favour. So it's not a big throw, but it's going in the right direction anyway. There is also a possibility of cooperation for District Head Teams. We see this more critically, because if there is a concentration of competence, we are more likely to see the problem that the population no longer knows where it can actually turn, because it is not immediately apparent, in which County Headquarters team then something to pick up. We are of the opinion that if one makes a merger, then one should do it at the same time with the District Headships, where it makes sense, and not go this way. It is interesting to note that the Green amendment, tabled by Mrs Musiol, was rejected in committee and is therefore not being debated today. It explicitly demanded that the municipal council as such and the individual municipal councils also have the opportunity to ask questions and to get information. The fact that this is not wanted is peculiar, because it raises the suspicion that one does not want control there. So I don't understand why you don't take this step now. If one wants to let the communities work together, one should do the same. On the request of the BZÖ, to which we do not agree: For us, the regulation to set a population of 2,500 is too technological and simply not targeting for communities, because in reality it is seen that communities are ultimately grown units. [[Call the SPÖ: You don't have any more money anyway!]] If there is to be cooperation, it is now possible. But simply to strain such a performance and say that communities should have 2,500 inhabitants, and that is more or less downgraded: Even if the population is to be involved, this is a way that is not meaningful. It is also worth noting that the whole of the proposal we have tabled is too unforgettable and not really useful. Finally, I can only say: If the administrative reform continues at this snail pace, the accusation to the government that there is a standstill is more than justified.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16530	Next, Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16551	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Strengthening the rights of communities is one - I believe we are all agreed - important and correct further reform. However, I now come to the BZÖ proposal, which contains a forced merger with the people's own autonomous decision at the same time. [[Abg. Scheibner: Can you read?]] Mr Colleague, it is not possible for all the communities to go through a comb and to combine all the municipalities with a population of 2,500 without responding to the needs of local citizens or to topographical conditions. The reforming of the community structure is a very sensitive issue, and it is because the people in the community are connecting it to their home country, which combines it with a deep rooting. I think it is more about giving our best to preserve rural regions, but also about enabling rural regions to cooperate, and above all about strengthening competition within the regions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] With regard to the forced aggregation of communities, we are going another way, namely: We are trying to enable cooperation, cooperation and cooperation across countries. And that's not a standstill, it's implementation. It is also worth taking a look at the Styria. The Styria has already been initiated years ago by the head of state Mag. Franz Voves, the project “RegioNext” launched. As a result, the "Regional Taurus Market" came into existence. I think there is a real and important step. Of course, there are many mayors in this model, who want to ignore the resources available in the small region and create resources themselves. But it was a first, important step. The Reform Partnership in Styria has also taken the next step by putting on the table another reform programme. It is up to us to adapt administrative structures to the time, to recognize the signs of time, to make the administration efficient, but the most important thing in terms of design and efficiency is that we maintain the habitat in the regions where the population feels comfortable, is at home and with which the population also connects its home. That's the most important thing! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16601	Mr Singer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16622	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can only agree to the assessment by my previous speakers of this proposal for law by the Federal Council, which is because it provides the communities with a variety of scope – and I emphasize: several! – enter into cooperations, and because in the future it does not need a community association of its own for each task, but rather a association can perform several tasks. This facilitates the organization, saves organs and allows more effective and efficient association management. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not see in the community summary the cure for solving the financial problems of the communities. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Pendl has already stressed, both in committee and in plenary, that we need a discharge from the communities in the financing of health and social tasks. In my home community, expenditure on these tasks amounts to almost 50 percent of the municipality's financial power. [[Abg. With me 58 percent!]] Mr. Pendl, it's 58 percent with you. – That means we have reached about half of the financial power. I am therefore very pleased that we will be discussing the creation of a care fund at these plenary sessions, which I believe will be a major contribution to the discharge. Ladies and gentlemen! The community alliances, if they do not take place on a voluntary basis, will tear down structures that go far beyond the community organization. From my point of view, it will also remove from the citizens a piece of responsibility for the design of the habitat, and costs – Mr Linder has already mentioned it – will not be saved either. My access to make communities fit for the future is community cooperation. In my home district, we are currently working on the implementation of a concept where the services that citizens need on the ground are provided by citizens' services. Everything else creates joint centres of competence. In my opinion, this brings the required quality, saves costs and also strengthens rural areas. I would like to thank the Federal Council, the Upper Austrian Presidency or the Presidency under the Federal Council of the Gottfried Kneifel for the initiative to take up a proposal from the Austrian Convention. All in all, I see an important contribution to the promotion of community cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16671	Mr. Dr. Kräuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16692	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have here the “Reform Agenda Steiermark”, a truly remarkable project by the head of state Franz Voves and his deputy Hermann Schützenhofer. It has rightly received great attention and also great recognition. This is not only about the policy which will, as it were, belittle in the Styria, namely in the state government and in the country day, but there will also be many reform steps in the state administration down to the districts. There is also a chapter dealing with local structures. This is a completely new proposal for a structure, where attention is given to: How does it look economically, topographically, functionally and demographically? There are also aspects of democracy policy. Regional community centres should then be formed with the aim of being able to work more efficiently and economically, to achieve more professional structures – all in the interest of the local population! A significant reduction in the current 542 municipalities in Styria will be the result of this. This, of course, needs framework conditions and accompanying measures. And it is also logical that Parliament should be addressed to Parliament through the Federal Council of Law, which we are going to take today. This Constitutional Decision opens up the scope for cooperation and allows local associations to do so, including across federal borders. And he also creates appropriate opportunities for district authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't want to talk about this. Therefore, first of all: We should not talk so negatively about the Federal Council here. I really think it is a decisive impulse when it creates an important link from the countries into the National Council. There, where it is already legally clarified, it is an important motivation in the area of the community, and where the legal conditions are still lacking, it is an essential prerequisite for a more modern, economical, economic and appropriate local policy. This will be seen in billions over the next few years. And how immensely important this is, we know because the communities are suffering from financial hardship. And in the medium term, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very important contribution to ensuring that we can keep the population in rural areas and there again prospects. for the future. I am very pleased about this decision, because it is very important.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16734	Mr Grosz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16756	Madam President. High house! Mr Herb, you were here at the speaker's desk for the second time today and praised the Reform Partnership in Styria, not least not to say that there is an absolute standstill in the Federation. As the Central Secretary of Social Democracy, you would be well aware of so much self-criticism. As you praised the reform partnership in Styria and the so-called savings package: At the beginning of this year, the Steiermärkian government, consisting of SPÖ and ÖVP, reaffirmed the sharpest savings package. The Federal Government reduced the benefits for the disabled, the Federal Government increased fuel prices, there were changes in the commuting aid and so on. It was linearly shortened. And at the same time, the Styria, Mr. Deputy Herbs, cut by 25 percent and then heroically stepped in front of the press six months later and announced a political-sparing package at the level of saying and writing 15 percent! The Steermärkian Landtag is shortened from 56 mandates to 48, which is 15 percent after Adam Rieese. The Styrian government is cut from nine to eight members of the government. - Great! Great! So a member of the government will be saved; probably the Landesrat Kurzmann will meet. This also abolished the proportion so that the liberals no longer sit in the state government. Epochal! A huge savings package! Furthermore, at the initiative of the BZÖ, the Graz municipal council decides to reduce the number of municipal councils and, of course, to reduce the number of city councils. Voves and Schützehöfer announce this as the success of their reform partnership. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] I don't know what you're talking about, Mr. Herbs. In any case: What you are requesting to sell here as a “reform partnership ” is not worthy of that name either in the federal government or in Styria. If you were really serious, then we would not reduce the Steiermärkian Landtag by 15 percent, but to the Gaudium of the people and the taxpayers at last halve the number of mandates, because what the succois of the legislation from the Steermärk Landtag is sometimes for genering, namely, the, dear Mr Herbe, what SPÖ and ÖVP decide there. This is what I wanted to put to you as a correct answer to your second speech, Mr Dr Kräuber, about the “epochal” reform partnership of two politicians, who, according to Burgstaller, the head of state in Salzburg, will not be elected.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16808	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish for any final word. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: The draft law concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act in 1213 of the Supplements to strengthen the rights of the Communities. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Musiol, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall first proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Musiol, ladies and gentlemen, point 5. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the legislative proposal of the Federal Council. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the legislative proposal of the Federal Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Again, I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Again, I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 1314 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[16:04:19]] 6. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1205, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, which amends the regulations on road transport in 1960 (24. StVO-Novelle), and on the petition (65/PET) on the introduction of the roadway to motorways, presented by Mr Johann Rädler (1303 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16921	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16952	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Whoever helps quickly helps twice! – this is particularly true in emergency medicine. Per minute, which the rescuers are faster on site in an accident, the survival of the seriously injured increases by about 10 percent. Unfortunately, the practice has shown that the rescue forces often cannot get to the accident site in good time because they themselves are in traffic jams, and therefore valuable time is lost. I am therefore very pleased that we are here today in the House to decide on the introduction of the “rettunggasse on motorways”. This means that in the event of an initial traffic jam, or in the event of an accident in the future, the drivers on the left track to the left and the drivers on the right track to the right can be avoided. This forms in the middle of the road a routing road through which the forces can reach the accident site. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I have had the experience in Germany that the concept of rescuing all works well. By means of the routing alleys, the forces can be on average up to 4 minutes earlier at the accident site. We are well aware that there is not enough change to the law alone, but that the rescue road must also be anchored in the consciousness of the population. Therefore, there will be a large information campaign from Asfinag from autumn onwards. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, we must say: The escape alley is a good, important innovation that helps save lives. I would therefore like to thank you, Mrs Bures, for the rapid establishment of the roadway on motorways.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e16989	Next, Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17010	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Very briefly to Mr Pilz, on the subject of “Hirngespinst”, where he meant, there is at least a brain present. I didn't dispute that! He always uses it a little bit wrong. He always wanders around in the past and talks about any construction here, and I don't think democracy is good. One should deal with the future. This is also the case with today's request. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: With the future of the escape alley!]] Yes, with the future of the Rescuegasse, Mrs. Member of the Transport Committee. I would also like to say something to Mr Grosz. He addressed the situation in the municipal council in Graz and spoke of a standstill. Have you not seen the “Report ” yesterday and noticed where the real standstill is? At BZÖ! [[Mr Scheibner and Mr Grosz.]] Did all of this get away from you? Is Mr Stadler on a pre-arranged election trip? [[Mr Scheibner and Mr Grosz.]] But I think you've already been working on it, because you've already changed professionally with the railway uniform of Graz. You're, I think, now engaged in the tram. [[New Ho-Ho-Ho-Rufe des Abg. Grosz.]] There should also be thinking of where the real standstill is: not at SPÖ and ÖVP! You know this from Styria, but also from the federal level, where an important measure is taken with the introduction of the roadway on motorways. ==References====External links== This measure will also be implemented in January 2012. It will certainly help save many lives. If we look at the frequency of accidents in traffic, we can see that in the last 30 years the number of fatalities has fallen from 2,000 to 700. This is a success of our transport policy, but that is, we know, also due to the development in technology or in car construction. Every human life that can be saved through additional measures deserves our commitment. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and the Abg. Silhavy.]] We have already heard from Mr Heinzl today how many minutes the rescue can be at the accident site more quickly due to the rescue road. There are good international experiences with this. So why shouldn't we do that? We have sent a petition to the Second President of the National Council and then discussed in the Transport Committee where unanimity has been reached. A committee noted that the panstrip was also released for the creation of a rescue gas for military forces. What we need, Mrs Federal Minister – and you have already announced this in the Committee – is a comprehensive information work, an educational work. This will be done by the new drivers in the driving schools, but also our older road users will be informed accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank you, Mrs Bundesminister, for your commitment to 100 km/h on the change. This is to all benefit, ladies and gentlemen from Styria, from Carinthia, from all the road users, that it is now at 1. In July, this 100 km/h regulation continues to apply on the Bergab line. That is why I would like to thank you very much for working together in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17078	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17099	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! “The savior takes hold and doesn’t smart.” – Free to Goethe, you have to say: The saviours act and waste no time. And we want to support the saviors by deciding together today on the rescue road and thus not wasting any more unnecessary time. We have heard about 200 accidents a year on motorways and highways. And what do you think these five minutes that the rescue organs can be faster at the site of action, when you know, the first minutes are the, who decide on life and death or on the degree of injury? And if this only saves a single human being, if only a single human remains alive, then this very decision is remarkable today. We already have role models in Germany, Switzerland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia, and there it has already proved to be a good solution. We're looking after you today. However, I would like to conclude by stressing: The involvement of the opposition in this bill in discussion and decision was excellent, and so we could find a good solution for the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, let us go this way together more often!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17139	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17160	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we should really go this way together more often, especially, Mrs Minister, when it comes to road traffic regulations, including when it comes to core issues, to bring about improvements in road safety for cyclists. That's where we were relatively far. Originally, this STVO novelle should also cover this area. The rest is your helmet duty. We have, of course, fully supported this initiative, “Education of a lifeway”, and, Mrs. Minister, we are also grateful to you for making it clear that you will remain panstrips in the future and will not become an additional lane in the event of a traffic jam. And that's how it really should stay. We also insist on this regulation in the Committee's statement. But now still on the other aspects. Mrs Minister, you are about to make a new move in the near future as regards road safety, also for the cyclists, and here, please, according to our experience in the Advisory Boards, it is very necessary in the preparatory negotiations that the spokespersons of the other political groups – necessarily, I would like to say almost – be involved, because they have not done so far voluntarily. In conclusion: Of course, a yes to the road also on our part – and the hope for a common road also in other areas of road safety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17193	Mr Hagen has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17215	Thank you, Madam President. Minister! High house! We too will agree with the BZÖ. That's a single matter, that's a reasonable thing. In Germany and in other European countries, the system of rescuing roads has been practised for a long time and has been very successful, with no strips of pans in these countries. There was a small discussion in the Committee, which we suggested, as the law did not address this pan-strip situation. After we were able to establish a committee here, so that the pan strips can be driven in case of need – as is the case with a To make room for an deployment vehicle, to enter a red crossing and remain free of penalties, we have decided to support this request. The introduction of the rescue alley is generally welcomed by the BZÖ. However, it is also necessary to create opportunities for workers to be able to help quickly in the event of traffic jams and accidents. It is therefore necessary to support all the measures that are going in this direction. It is particularly important to provide comprehensive information to the population on this new regulation, as the problem will be certain that many drivers do not know about this pan-strip system. This is where information has to come from the Ministry and the media, then it will certainly be a useful measure. We will vote in favour of the BZÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17251	Ladies and gentlemen! I allow myself to welcome a group on the balcony very warmly. These are the participants in the Special Olympics, the riding and riding team. I've been told they've won four times gold, six times silver, and four times bronze. Congratulations! [[General condolences.]] I should now like to ask the Federal Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17281	Also a warm welcome from me! – Thank you, Madam President. High house! As you know, the issue of road safety is one that is especially important to me. After all, all the measures that the House has already decided on in this context have shown that this good and close interaction needs to be done. Good laws are needed, which are also accepted by the majority of the population. It takes the control of these laws, but we also need a change of consciousness in the field of road safety. A responsible behaviour in road transport is the most important because the main goal is to avoid accidents. We have had many of these discussions and we have chained packages. We have defined the high-risk regulators whether these are the lawns, whether they are those who are alcoholizing a car, and have made strict laws because it is not a cavalier’s crime when driving alcoholic cars, and we have also strengthened the control of compliance with these laws. As a result, we have also accepted those who are the weakest road users in our country, whether they are pedestrians and pedestrians who are cyclists or children. Only in the last few weeks have we jointly decided that we want to protect our children in road traffic with the helmet duty and with a line of consideration. These were all measures to help us reduce human suffering on Austria's roads. And what we decide today should help if something happens anyway. If an accident occurs, then it is about the forces being at the accident site as quickly as possible. Today, we will jointly decide on a scheme that will ensure that the intervention organisations can really help people who are victims of a traffic accident more quickly. It has already been mentioned what that means when you get to the accident site quickly. Surgeons have told me that if you're a minute faster at the accident site, the chance of survival increases by 10 percent. A minute faster to be at the accident site is crucial in terms of the impact of the accident, the damage to accidents and the time of rehabilitation. I believe that if, on average, the forces are four minutes faster at the accident site by the introduction of the rescue road, that is all reason enough for us to take this decision today. I would also like to thank you very much for the broad agreement that has been reached across all the party borders, on the basis of the statements made beforehand. We will unanimously take this decision to introduce the escape routes in Austria in order to help the forces, whether that is rescue, fire brigade, the police, to be at the accident site faster and thus to save more lives. Thank you very much for this, and I am looking forward to further cooperation with the great title: More traffic safety and less human suffering on Austria's roads.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17333	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17354	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! On motorways it happens often enough: There is a traffic jam, forces have to reach the source of the evil, but they can't, because they're stuck in the traffic jam themselves. The pan strip, which should be used as a solution, is itself blocked. And this creates a situation that no one can really need. There's a rescue alley that's going to help. It is understood by a routing road that both sides are driven aside, which does not make it a full lane, but the full width of a lane is freed, thus creating a way for rescue, police, fire brigade forward. This scheme is already being applied successfully in Germany, Switzerland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia. But that also means that in Germany, if you do not comply with the rule, you risk a penalty, because there this rule has already been poured into a law. With 1. In January 2012, such a legal regime will also enter into force in Austria. However, it should not be the legal criminal framework of €72 to €2180 the reason for the rapid implementation of the rescue road in practice, but rather the knowledge that assistance in road transport can be done by a lot faster in the future. Of course, the necessary awareness-building must also be provided. At the moment, Mrs Moser, Mr Moser, is still creating uncertainty with the panstrip in the case of the formation of a lifeline. The Committee has made it clear in its statement that, in the exceptional case of the pan strips, it can be used to avoid, although it retains the character of a pan strip. But if it is necessary, it can also be used in this case. So today we decide on a solution that is already a success if only a single person can be helped sooner or even more life-savingly, and for this you, Mrs Federal Minister, deserve a warm thanks to all the road users.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17400	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17424	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can make it short, much shorter than my previous speaker, and thus save some time, how they can save rescuers in the future, because they can use the rescue lane. It is always impressive to see how professionally and efficiently the interaction of the forces working in the accidents that happen again and again on motorways. Of course, this should be further supported. And if from this side the suggestion comes to the legal fixation of such a rescuing alley, if that is still supported by our Hans Rädler with the petition mentioned, then this is a good thing. The Minister pointed out: a perhaps smaller but again important contribution to improving road safety. Let's not forget one thing: Although we are on the right path, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to reduce the number of road deaths in Austria, we are still at best in the middle of the European Union. So we could be much better here and prevent suffering. The rescue alley may be a small contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17454	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17475	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is right, road safety is important, quick help is much more important. That is why there is no one against the parties, there is a five-party agreement here. To one of my previous speakers, colleagues Haberzettl: It is true that pan strips should be able to drive, provided that on certain highways such a one is present at all. This is, of course, the big question, since it has not been saved at the wrong spot in the construction of highways, especially in the case of motorways, in recent times, even with some of the last year, i.e. under your responsibility, Mrs. Federal Minister. For example, at the Weinviertler expressway, the S3 was completely abandoned on the panstrip, bridges were not widened, narrowings were formed, and thus there will be no escape alley. This route is very, very dangerous for blue light organisations – which, of course, have also criticized, rightly criticized, as well as for me – when it comes to helping in good time. On this Weinviertler highway, there will be no routings in the current situation. It must be clear to you. That's why I ask you, Mrs. Federal Minister: They bear responsibility, therefore show you that fast help is important for the unfortunate road users, is a great asset for you, and in the future pay attention to road safety, which will be built! It is not about building them as quickly as possible, just to be able to use them relatively quickly and to pick up the citizens, but to ensure that there is a strip of pans, to ensure that bridges are widened, and do not save here in the wrong place, namely in the safety of citizens! This is not what they deserve.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17509	Next, Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17532	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the introduction of the Rescuegasse from January 2012, which we decide today, we also implement a long-standing call from the Blue Light Organisations. There is quite a positive experience in these neighbouring countries. In the event of an accident, every minute counts, and with the escape all the chances of survival are significantly higher. The faster the deployment vehicles get to the accident site, the higher the chance of reducing the scope of an accident and saving people's lives. Heavy accidents need help as quickly as possible, and the rescue gases support the best possible progress by the coordinated removal of the cars. In the future, the panstrips may also be used for this measure, so that the average lanes can be kept free as lanes for the service vehicles. The rescue alley must be formed with caution in the event of steady traffic, and there are clear instructions for the behaviour of drivers and drivers. For this reason, the Minister also commissioned the ASFINAG to launch a comprehensive information campaign together with the driver clubs and driving schools in order to get the drivers in front of the 1. to provide sufficient information on January 2012. And already on the homepage of the ASFINAG and the Red Cross you will find comprehensive information about this. Ladies and gentlemen! We are now deciding on another important measure to increase road safety and highway safety, and it is positive that innovation will be approved by all political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17562	Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17584	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Today is the year of volunteers, and there is an important signal of the road traffic regulations. It was mainly the fire brigades and the Red Cross that demanded vehemently the Rescue Street. Our roads have often reached the peak of performance capacities today, and the frequency of accidents is naturally increasing with the compression of road traffic. It is important to be able to store victims quickly and thus save them. The creation of a rescue road, the side-by-side driving of the vehicles to make room in the middle for rescue and mountain vehicles will help to save quickly. It is important, on the one hand, to save quickly, on the other hand to clear the accident site quickly and so quickly to get traffic back on the relevant road and to leave the vehicles as unaccidentally and as good as possible. Individual traffic naturally comes from all of us moving as individuals. Unfortunately, however, we are – and this is probably everyone sitting in a car – very selfish in road traffic. Perhaps it is precisely this regulation on the roadway to raise a little bit of awareness that there has to be a co-operation in road traffic in order to be able to achieve its goal safely. I would like to thank Mr Rädler, who, with his petition, has also shown a great deal of feeling for the citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And it also shows the car clubs and the ASFINAG that this is an absolute necessity. God will be grateful to all the parties today. One issue, however, where we do not yet have a solution, is road safety on the Austrian municipal roads. Mrs Minister, the Austrian communities have been waiting for a novel of the road transport system for many years now. The municipalities must be authorised to carry out speed controls on the roads – there is already an agreement of the national conference. Please, drive forward the solution vehement here too, so that at a time when many – unnecessarily – discuss the abolition of congregations, we will strengthen our communities! [[Complaints and bravaders at the ÖVP as well as applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] The success of the Rescue Road gives us courage that there will soon be a solution on the subject of speed control and traffic safety on municipal roads.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17662	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17683	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have established an excellent rescue system in Austria in recent years and decades. We organize the assistance via land and also from the air and see that our doctors are arriving at the site as soon as possible, because we all know that quick help is crucial. Anyone who has had an accident himself, and anyone who has been first-aid in an accident knows how long a minute can take. Often these minutes are crucial about life and death – and they are also crucial about the quality of life, about how an accidentster can shape his further life. Therefore, all measures contributing to the reduction of the arrival of rescue organisations are important and crucial. That is why I am pleased that we are today taking a decision on the creation of the rescue lane. This is an important measure for me, because the escape route has already proved itself well abroad. What is important to me – that has already been mentioned – is a corresponding information for the population and also how to behave in order to form the escape alley. For me, this is an important part of accepting this escape route, and also of rapid practical implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! As a Red Cross official, I am particularly pleased because this Rescue Street was also a requirement of the Red Cross. I congratulate the Minister for Implementation and I am pleased about the initiative of Mr Hans Rädler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17721	Mr Tadler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17742	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There are still signs and miracles when government documents are implemented by this quality. Normal There It is in various committees, such as the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, permanent delay in agendas and poor, very poor reasons, just to enforce the judicial position of the government parties. The call for the implementation of a so-called rescue road has been put in place as a petition and has then found the way through the Transport Committee to the plenary. The chance is that at the same time, Mrs. Federal Minister, we will be on 30 May. June – the second, so important tunnel tube of the Tauerntunnel was opened. In particular, in the area of skeletal lines, it is an enrichment to know now that the Rescuegasse is finally anchored. The annual summer stalls in Salzburg will now belong to history. Especially in the area of the Tauern- and Katschberg tunnel, the right step is thus taken towards the first care of accident victims – we remember the terrible accident in the Tauerntunnel. Finally, it remains to be hoped that guests will also stay in Salzburg for a short time and do not continue through the faster traffic flow towards the south – perhaps some friends will still stand in the neighbouring Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17784	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. No final word will be desired. We therefore come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1205 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[16:35:51]] 7. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1203, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the driving licence law (14. FSG-Novelle) (1304 d.a.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 1110/A(E) by Mr Harald Vilimsky, Members of Parliament, on the reduction of the cost of extending temporary driving authorisations (1305, e.g.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment 517/A(E) by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on a more civilised new regulation of costs in the case of driving licence periods (1306, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17867	We now come to points 7 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17897	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The present proposal has some positive aspects, but there are also quite a number of negative points in it. We will therefore, in sum, reject this bill. Why the whole thing? An example – the two-wheel, the moped driver’s license –: At present there is a relatively low-priced moped. Under the new regulation we then have the driving licence from 16 onwards, and it is much more expensive. That is to say, we now ask those who really need it – for example, students who do not have a student reduction during the vacation, or apprentices who need the moped to get to work in the early morning and to return to the evening, for example in the rural areas with a worse offer in public transport – to check out. And that as an addition: On the one hand, we see that with all possible measures we reduce the number of traffic accidents, on the other hand we allow the 16-year-old to drive a 125-er machine. That means we're artificially raising the accident risk back there. That's really not what we want. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Why do we decide this novelle today? – It is the implementation of an EU directive. [[Abg. Heinzl: Exactly!]] On this occasion, allow me to take a small trip towards events at the EU and the Commission in recent days. The Commission or a Commissioner in particular did not negotiate well – it was specifically about passenger data. This Commissioner was then too bold to accept this failure, subsequently lied to the EU Parliament and had to admit what was completely embarrassing. Two countries are now threatening with Veto. And this is the Commission that wants to prescribe something that would require us to have a driver's license that will be invalid after 15 years – and that is the maximum possible framework – so that we have to change the document? Apparently – or perhaps say – the whole thing is still taking place today without a health or fitness test, that is, we simply exchange the document like that. But if you forget that, you get a small administrative penalty, which is still to be paid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Why, Mr Bartenstein, do we not change bank cards every week? Why don't we change the e-card every month? Why don't we change the credit card every year, for example? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Let's think about it: It is also claimed that greater road safety will be achieved because training will be improved, structured and standardised. It is certainly very hard to discuss. What are the real sources of danger in road transport? – That’s once the alcohol, that’s the drugs, and that’s, of course, the phone call. And now the state or the government or the EU Commission wants to explain to us how we increase security? – If the government really knows what we do not have really sustainablely lower accident rates? Why is crime exploding? Why do we have constantly higher debts? Why do we have a problem with education and care? – Because there is no universal recipe and because one partially does not know how it really is. I now do not want to hold a scientific debate on a plastic card. That's why: If you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, want to make it, then stop a “Lex plastic card”! The state printing, which is just that name, but no longer is, or another printing plant will already be curtailed and stupid! That means we get more bureaucracy, we get more administration. With Mr Bartenstein, perhaps you can count on this! – I have to say that what we have received so far from red tape and administration, which costs it in addition and what the citizens still cost at extra charges, the Ederer-Tausender has been away for a long time. We need to make sure that it doesn't become another thousand more. That's what it really looks like! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Again, let's give up a piece of sovereignty. And I wonder slowly: Are we still a state of our own? The example of Hungary with the banking tax really shows that they can still act sovereignly. Let us just show the Brusselsers that we really are a state of our own, we show that administration can also be simple, and let us show who really elected us: the Austrians, the Austrian people, and not a Commissioner from somewhere!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17959	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e17980	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Federal Law, which amends the driving licence law, has the goal – you are right, Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek – to create a uniform, manageable transport law in Europe. It is new that all driving licences issued from 2013 will be limited to 15 years. The aim is to ensure that driver's license holders can be clearly identified on current photos, and it is also intended to make it difficult for abuse or forgery. The old pink driving licences remain valid until 19.1.2033. The complete change to the EU Checkcard driver's license will therefore take place by 2033. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important that the extension of the driving licence does not bring any mandatory health check to seniors, as always. However, in order to increase the safety of older citizens, voluntary and anonymous health checks will exist. Another major innovation will be for the motorcycle driver's license from 2013 – my previous speaker has already mentioned this. As of 2013, access to the A-Shine, i.e. to the category of the most powerful motorcycles, will only be possible gradually; it is very important to mention that too. This is another important step towards greater road safety, as young adults are entitled only more step by step to drive ever stronger motorcycles. The immediate unlimited access to heavy and powerful machines will only be possible at 24 years from 2013 as at the age of 21. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] But there are not only new obligations for young adults, but also new rights. The driving licence for motorcycles up to 125 cubic centimetres can then be made as early as 16 years. And, ladies and gentlemen, in Germany, there is already the possibility to direct a 125 cubic machine at the age of 16; no negative effects on road safety could be observed. As a very positive one, I would also like to emphasize personally that drivers of so-called moped cars must have a driving licence of the newly created class AM from 2013. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The amendment of the driving licence law brings numerous important and correct innovations, as I believe, and makes a major contribution to greater road safety through changes in the driving licence. And to achieve even more road safety is the objective which we here in Parliament feel a far-reaching commitment. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18026	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18047	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heinzl! More traffic safety is a pious wish given the fact that people 15, 16 years old are already allowed to operate and drive 125 cubic meters machines. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Piety does not hurt!]] The accident figures clearly show that every second person who falls victim to the moped is only 15 years old, every third person who has a moped accident is only 16 years old. And now these people, who are at the forefront of the accident anyway, are supposed to have access to cubic metres, which, of course, are driving faster. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – If I travel faster, then of course the risk of accidents is also greater, especially for the untrained. For the 125s there's more power behind it, you can't argue. And the problem I have... – Yes, apologise, cubic centimetres! [[Abg. Heinzl: No cubic meters, cubic centimeters!]] Yeah, then I'll correct that and make a correction, then I don't need to correct that again in the record. I usually have to do with big sums. All right, at the mopeds, it's the cubic centimetres. Nevertheless, it has also been shown in the accident statistics between 2002 and 2005: We have a fivefold! Originally, there may have been five youths who have failed, now there are 33. And through this novel of the driving licence law, you create framework conditions that may lead to even more moped and motorcycle accidents. The improvement in access to the “great” machines I do not put into apologies, only that has gone hand in hand with the advances of the Chamber of Commerce, with the advances probably a certain vehicle lobby that has facilitated access to these cubic centimetres classes. – That’s why we’re against it. The other reason is also quite clear: This arrangement with the same driving licence across the EU, which still needs to be re-examined and where, if one does not seek to pay a fine of €20, we do not seem to be citizen-friendly. We are nevertheless skeptical of what this, yes, penalty is going on, because if I don't have a driver's license, I think I'm paying 25 € punishment, so the difference is relatively low. But our main criticism is that this extension or re-exhibition means that this request is an unnecessary bureaucratic shock, for which you personally, of course, cannot do anything – that is EU regulation – only do we convert it again to one, instead of being more generous. And then I come to a last criticism, and you reject a very, very constructive and social approach on our part, by continuing to pay dues for the temporary driving licences that people who have to carry out an investigation as a result of illness, so to speak. Truck drivers who have a temporary driver's licence do not have to pay any fees. The People's Procuratorate has repeatedly criticized – I believe it has been read for five years in the People's Procuratorate's report – that people who have to get deeper into their pockets for health reasons, have higher cost of living, have to pay prescription fees, medications et cetera, also have to pay the fee every time – and that is a non-relevant euro amount! – if they want to extend their driving licence if they want to have a new time limit. Mrs Minister, this is a very, very small approach. In total, this is a minimum amount, perhaps €200 000, €300 000, which the State may lack in revenue from fees. That's possible. If you increase certain rates of punishment in the speed range, you could loosen up if you did more on-site traffic controls, and you could loosen that if you lowered the number of accident victims by further offensive measures and took the word "traffic safety" not only into your mouth, but finally implement the traffic safety programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18118	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18139	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Deimek has already said that new burdens are coming on us again. We are implementing an EU Führerschein Directive, which will enter into force in 2013. It is about getting a single driving licence across Europe. There are, of course, compromises, but I also make it quite clear, Mr Deimek, that there has also been a total use of national scopes here, particularly as regards temporary periods, training and further training et cetera. There are transition times, there are room for us, but – I think we all agree – as far as the moped classes are concerned is to say: There used to be light and heavy motorcycles, while today there are a lot more classes and categories and, of course, legal requirements. The five key cornerstones are, on the one hand, the minimum age for Class A1, which has been set at 16 years of age, the gradual access to the next level at Class A – there has been the requirement that there should be a practical driving test or training; Austria leaves the freedom of choice to the driver – the category B trailers, also with between 3 500 and 4 250 kilograms, there is an additional training instead of a practical ................................................................................................................................................................ The deadline, Mr Deimek, has a margin between ten and 15 years. That's where we use the biggest room, 15 years. There is also mandatory training for drivers and a five-year audit, where the whole is practically questioned and examined. Mr Heinzl has already said this: The old driving licences in paper format remain valid until 2033. The check card then becomes practically mandatory. There is the formal extension for 15 years. The following very clearly towards FPÖ: It is criticized here that there are too many requirements, but you would have required a mandatory health check or a standard health check for all. We reject this because older people do not represent an additional risk group. There are other transport problems that pose risks. Overall, it is a package towards European unity, but also a package for greater security and less bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18187	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18209	Madam President. Minister! High house! I'll have to start making things clear. Here the government programme of the ÖVP/SPÖ government is continuing once again, namely the government programme of disbursement. It is disbursed over all lengths, it is all expensive and the citizens of Austria withdraw the money from their pockets. If I hear from my colleague Gahr that this is precisely because we have to implement EU law here: In the EU, you have to knock on the table accordingly and not say to all the yes and Amen what is being prayed for there, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there is a need for change. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to take a brief look at the novel of the driving licence law. An essential innovation – we have heard it – is that the driver's license is now only valid for 15 years, after which he has to be re-requested. This, of course, brings back new costs that need to be borne by the citizen. When we consider that Class A and D are being re-regulated and then this AM comes for the moped vehicles or the moped ID: There are the increases horrendous! That's what I'm going to come back to. But what bothers me there is: If someone now owns a moped car and makes a test, acquires a steering licence for a motorcycle, and he wants it to be rewritten to a moped car, then this matter is not done with a driving test for just this moped car, but he has to make this test additionally new. And that's something where I think that money is being implemented again, and then money is collected from the driving schools. I am convinced that the taxpayers have paid more than enough, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would now like to highlight some of the fees. So far, the driver's license has cost 45,60 €, from 1. It costs 60,50 € on July. This is an increase of €15! The price for the moped card was €25. I don't know where he's set, that's not detailed in the law, but if I calculate with the same price, then we're over 30 €. Another example: The cost of driving tests in Group 1 is also increased to €60. This corresponds to an increase of 27.30 €. The driving test the group 2 will cost €90, which means an increase of €39.20. So: Excassing length times width on all levels! For this we cannot be, the BZÖ will certainly not agree here. On points 8 and 9: I should also like to comment on what Mrs Moser has already done. One is the FPÖ application, which is an extension of the temporary steering licence in Class B, where no fees for groups C, C1 and D are collected. This has been in existence for a long time, but the disabled people, the chronically ill people, who always need to extend the steering authority, are being re-socked. The application was submitted to the Financial Committee in 2007, 2009 also and has remained there to date. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it is! People are constantly being suffocated, and for this reason we will not be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18272	Mrs Bures has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18293	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's like this: We have to implement an EU directive. No, it's not like only bad ideas come from Europe. I would now like to explain this as follows. Point one: The deadline for a document, i.e. the driver's licence. First of all – many speakers have referred to this – we have of course exploited the longest duration of time, and Austria will therefore leave the validity of the document for as long as possible – that is 15 years. There are countless documents whose validity needs to be extended – everyone knows that –: the passport, the identity card and so on. The driver's license is, of course, a document that will also facilitate the work of the executive, and it is also about the fact that we do not have 110 different driver's license documents throughout Europe, but rather that we support the executive, for example when we have foreign lawns in Austria, also as regards the designation with the driver's license, as far as the driver's data is concerned, and there is a single document across Europe, in check-card format. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, If some of you look at your wallet, then you will see that, if you still have the pink paper note and not yet the modern card, on this may be photos that don't look very similar to you anymore. After 15 years one has probably changed, and a document is supposed to be recognizable. - Point one. Point two: Of course, that also means an effort. The costs resulting from this are borne by the Fees Act. I am grateful, Mrs Moser, for information where I can get money anywhere, because we can use every cent for road safety, but this is about the Fee Act, and the revenue from document extensions is unfortunately not available in the Ministry of Transport. But it might be a good suggestion – only the Minister of Finance would have no great pleasure with it. Point three: On the question of moped training and also on this discussion, which I take very seriously, namely the new possibilities, small motorcycles up to 125 cubic centimeters from the 16th century onwards. Year of life to be guided. By the way, the moped feeling changes It doesn't seem like anything. We really improved this in 2009 for good reasons, have taken two hours in the running traffic, and that, too, this better training, was an instrument that works. There has been a good decision on the basis of the directive to ensure greater road safety in two-wheeled vehicles, namely: If you increase the classes, so if the motorcycle is getting stronger and stronger, then two years of driving practice must lie between the classes. And that's why – that was the decision to make – we have the motorcycle driver's license only with 20, currently 18, or open up the possibility of steering small motorcycles up to 125 cubic centimeters with 16 – which, moreover, for many years, have had a lot of countries, such as Germany, Italy, France, and will also have all the countries around Austria in Bälden. I have discussed this very seriously with all the experts, especially with the Transport Safety Board, which is always an important advisor for me, and the answer was clear: If we combine this with a really good training, if we link it to that which will be a high-quality driver's license training, then we even have good chances to ensure more safety for young people on mopeds and small motorcycles. Good training looks as follows: At the moment we have six theory hours at the Moped and at the Kleinmotorrad 34 theoretical hours, currently we have two hours in the running traffic as a prerequisite, at the small motorcycle for 16-year-old there will be twelve hours in the future, that is six times as much, and there will be an hour of mandatory risk assessment in the form of a conversation with traffic psychologists, with drivers. Overall, my opinion – and these also share the opinion of the experts, including the Transport Safety Board – is that we also contribute to greater safety and that there must be better training, a really well-founded training. It is therefore an EU directive that is good and will also contribute to it, as at the next item on the agenda, that we hope to get to the top of Europe in the field of road safety. I would therefore invite you to use the same harmony as in the rescue gas decision, to give a back and agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18349	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18370	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Hagen, we are, of course, very pleased to note that the first item on the agenda, which concerned the transport sector, has been decided unanimously. That there can no longer be unanimous decisions is understandable, that would be quite contrary to the nature of the opposition. However, the fact that the content is not far from missing has now been shown in the plenary, as have your comments in the Committee, among other things. They said that the changes would not be so bad, but... – I can't do it now for reasons of time, because I only have two minutes of speaking time. You have disagreed in that way when this But has affected only things that are not actually changed in this novelle at all. At the time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs also explained this to you in the Committee. Mr Deimek has also found a few positive points today. Absolutely I can't understand your statement that there is supposed to be more road safety – no! – if we improve training, and there are some points that have now attracted the Minister again. If you try the statistics, Dr. Moser, you can not only see them from the figures, but also take into account the factor that it – no! – it is true that always those who start are, of course, those who contribute most to the fact that more accidents occur. If we were to start with 16, it would be the 16-year-olds; that's probably clear. In any case, there are too many improvements, and under the rule it can, I think, be brought to the point of consolation: Good Minister, good novels and finally good for the traffic conditions with us in Austria. - Thank you, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18412	Mr Vock is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18434	Madam President. Minister! High house! Once again, we are fulfilling a change in an EU policy. We are once again the brave EU students who meet the EU requirements here, regardless of the experience and knowledge we have had in Austria in this regard, because the regulations we are currently having have been made on the basis of our experience, based on our findings. But, of course, the EU is better, it has much more experience and knowledge. Of course, this re-exhibition must be paid by the affected driver's license holder. But since our colleague Deimek has already said a lot about the main request, I would just like to speak on the two opposition requests. As the colleague Moser and a colleague said earlier, there is the favour for classes C, C1 and D for professional drivers. There, the regular re-exhibition is subject to a discount. The Public Prosecutor's Office has rightly criticised the fact that chronic illness and the disabled have to carry out regular investigations and pay the re-exhibition with high fees. Therefore, our proposal to grant the advantages for classes C, C1 and D also for driving licence class B. But the proposal, which we decide at the same time as the main request, that all Austrians now have to extend the validity of the licence every 15 years, should now no longer generally concern Class B, because then it would affect all Austrians. – What would not bother me if they were to receive a favour. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, as long as we have enough money to finance the Greek arms purchases, we should also be able to give the class B driver's license holders advantages if they have to extend their driving licence for the second, third or fourth time. Let's not clean up our budget on the back chronically ill, disabled people and other driver's license holders! Let's live more social justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18477	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft federal law amending the driving licence law (14. FSG-Novelle) with title and entrance (1304 of the supplements). I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who also agree to the law at third reading, to give a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1305 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1306 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[17:07:51]] 10. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1204, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Federal Roads Act 1971, Question No 1442/A by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues in a Federal Act amending the Federal Road Act (BStG 1971) and implementing the 2010 infrastructure evaluation outcome with regard to the removal of a planned section of the S 31 Burgenland Highway, and on the Question No 1423/A by Mr Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in the Federal Law on Federal Roads (Bundesstraßengesetz 1971 – BstG 1971) (1307 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18571	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18602	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! This amendment of the Federal Roads Act is much more differentiated than the one at the previous item on the agenda. There are much more points that we can agree with, but there are some that we still have to reject. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We find very positive and welcome the increase in safety management, starting from an impact assessment, in times of quality management natural A proper audit and the analysis of sections with increased accidents. That's what modern road management requires, what modern security management needs. We already see the register of federal roads and their changes somewhat more differentiated. We see the S 31 in the Burgenland very positive, but we already see far less positive the changes concerning the state of Vienna and its surroundings. That is also the reason why we will request separate votes on this item on the agenda today. For the third, the regulatory authority for new fees, is what we very strongly reject, and that is what we are expressing.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18641	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18662	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Investing smart, saving responsibly, is the credo for infrastructure expansion in Austria. As part of the framework plan for 2011 to 2016, all road and rail projects were subject to a detailed examination by BMVIT. Clearly, growth and jobs are directly linked to a well-developed infrastructure, and Austria's economic location needs an environmentally friendly and efficient road network. But it is nevertheless important to deal with existing resources sparingly. Negotiations between BMVIT and the federal states enabled the really significant savings of € 519.4 million to be achieved. I repeat: € 519.4 million in savings! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] These savings were achieved, on the one hand, by the exclusion of some roads from the Federal Roads Act, on the other due to the need-based rescales. For example, the S 31 is built as a highway instead of a highway. Thanks to the genuinely successful negotiations by our Minister of State Doris Bures, the transport routes can be expanded exactly to meet the needs of the population, the economy and the environment, and at the same time every euro is used sparingly. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The change in the Federal Roads Act is in line with the motto I have already mentioned, namely: to invest wisely, to save responsibly. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to congratulate you on the outcome of your negotiations, especially with the federal states, which, as we know, were not easy. As I have already said, your use has saved € 519.4 million in tax money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18715	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18736	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a proposal on how to save more than $1 billion. Mrs Minister, you know very well that your evaluation criteria have not been correctly applied in the so-called evaluation of the Federal Road Act or the projects listed in the annex to this Federal Road Act. Normally, an autobahn-like extension is only common from 22,000 vehicles per day. And you originally planned to apply it, but still: Beyond these 22,000 vehicles per day lies the A 5 – the A 5 is to be built. Beyond these 22,000 vehicles per day is the S 7 – the S 7 is built. Beyond these 22,000 vehicles per day is the S 8 – to be built, you are still in the catalogue. Beyond these 22,000 vehicles per day are S 34, S 36 and S 37. All of this would be priority candidates for the savings programme. You don't see that! Now the overpass is coming, the most expensive part of the motorway, which you realize with subsidies from the country of Upper Austria and the city of Linz: the so-called leftover of the Westring with €100 million per kilometer – has also not fallen victim to your evaluation process. You kept it against your criteria. Although you have reduced the project by half – only: the northern part was never seriously intended anyway – and as a small negotiation success you could book these €70 million in subsidies. But one thing is also interesting: The contract with the country Upper Austria and the city of Linz still does not exist. Now, however, we are adopting a Federal Road Law, which nevertheless brings some savings, but which remains far below the level that would be urgently necessary. I am glad that the A 24 will not be built in the intended form. And I am also glad that the S 31 is now designed in the form of a slightly larger federal road, but no longer as a highway. But, Mrs Minister, in principle, you should have taken your criteria seriously, as is the case with the government programme. Because the government programme precisely defines what is to be covered by “high-level road network” which is to be expanded. They do not take one seriously or the other, namely your own criteria. What you take seriously is, on the one hand, the call of the Baulobby and, on the other hand, the preferred catalogue of the federal states, first and foremost those of the Lower Austria and, on the other hand, those of the Styria. We don't want to go there. Our protest is mainly because you are also acting unlawfully in the EU, because all of these projects you are now presenting in the Federal Roads Directory are required to carry out a strategic audit of traffic, because they are new projects, as they are a new law. This Strategic Environmental Review – in Austria called “Strategic Testing Transport” – is intended to prevent or avoid you, because none of these projects that I have listed would have a chance to cope with this Strategic Assessment Environment or Transport. Not only a waste of money, but also a breach of justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18778	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18800	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! Mr Heinzl has already mentioned the sum that does not seem unique to me, but from the fact that we save it with a legislative decision. You can't guess that's high enough. € 519.4 million in tax resources will be saved! This is something which, as has been said, should occur more often, but which is more rare in this House so far. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: 12 billion debts!]] Mrs. Moser, you want to redouble this right – that is the right of the opposition – and say that it could be a billion, and we didn't need the A5 either. To this end, I would like to say the following: Traffic counts are one thing, but I believe that with regard to partnership with the new EU Member States, with regard to our interests motorway connections between Vienna and Brno on the one hand and Vienna and Prague on the other – today, tomorrow and the other. That's why everything with measure and goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] My respect for Mrs Bures, for negotiating such projects with the countries in consensus is not easy. That was successful. Saving € 519.4 million is a very good thing – but we already want a motorway to Brno and one to Prague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18851	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18873	Mr President. Minister! High house! We see this from a different point of view than our colleagues in the run-up. The problem is certain that the general transport plan has been completely eroded. This general transport plan has also been drawn up with the thought of creating a good infrastructure for the economy and for the road users. I cannot imagine that things have changed so seriously over the last few years that certain roads are no longer needed or are no longer in the planned dimension, even though it is now being pointed out again and again that the volume of traffic has decreased. Mr Heinzl, we are also very much in favour of saving, unlimited. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: You just don't do it!]] If 500 million are saved here and that is reasonable, okay, but – and now the point is coming, the big but – it is of course already so that at the expense of the infrastructure there is saved, at the expense of the companies carrying out the transports. And if, at the same time, you also shut down a single line and railway lines, then something can't be right! Explain Please ask me what this is – I now take an example from Vorarlberg, the S 18 that has been very controversial for more than 20 years; the project has been set up due to a bird species, the Wagelkönig, which, I believe, has been heard in Styria and in Burgenland also somewhere. There money was “brown ” and the population is waiting for a discharge. That's what I'm asking: What's the higher value? – I believe that one should invest financial resources to build roads to make sense. Let's look at the list: The A 7 is now converted into the B 127. I do not want to list all the changes at this point, but, for example, the S 31 will be shortened in small steps. At an indefinite later date, the consequence will be: Roads will not be designed for transport due to the changes. The traffic will again be guided by the towns, and we will start again from the front, but are years back, as is the case in Vorarlberg. Finally, I can mention the “Sparprojekt” of the ÖVP in Vorarlberg regarding the second Pfänder tunnel tube. Their construction had been prevented for ten years, and now the population is suffocating in traffic because this tunnel tube is still not finished. At the time, the State Council responsible for transport said: Ten years this is being built too late! The blocking party ÖVP has caused this. When you see what chaos it created, you really can't find it for good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18909	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18931	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagen, I cannot understand your argument, because on the one hand, you repeatedly ask the government and the ministers to save it, but on the other hand you have a huge catalogue of wishes, which is to be fulfilled as a whole. I can't quite understand how that's supposed to work. Even with us in the communities, it is often so that the number of wishes is infinite, but if the money is scarce, then you have to set priorities and then do something. [[Abg. Hagen: Save Reasonable!]] And nothing else has been done by the Minister and the Ministry, and some projects have just been evaluated. And if you insist that you can expand something to a lesser extent, you should do it that way. Nothing has been generally deleted, but instead of motorways, national roads are being built, adapted to the traffic to roll there in the next few years. I mean, that's a very reasonable measure. The introduction of safety management for TEN routes must certainly be considered as a very positive thing. Mrs Bures, yes, all of us from Social Democracy are particularly focused on road safety for all road users. And this measure is a positive contribution. As regards the third regulatory area, which provides for the possibility of setting fees for application-based administrative procedures, it should be stated that: This is also a measure that has been very correctly chosen, because there is a huge cost in the ministry in connection with the implementation of these applications – and it is too little. This measure is intended to bring about €860 000. That is, as I believe, a very reasonable thing in the course of all these savings measures. Mrs Minister, thank you for these three requests. They are all very positive. And you see: Your ministry is working, it's going a little further.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18971	Mrs Bures is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e18993	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Under the impression of the financial and economic crisis two years ago, I immediately began to carry out an evaluation in the field of infrastructure investment in my department. We have carried out a transport policy review of all the projects that have been planned and where there have been agreements, and we have employed traffic forecasts, and we have also subjected all projects to an economic audit. In drawing up the plan, the criteria for effectiveness, efficiency and economy have been met; Criteria which are always at the heart of the process. I believe that if we are faced with the great task of fiscal consolidation, to which I am of course aware, we must try everything to make use of the existing resources as efficiently and sparingly as possible in all areas. At Infrastructural projects, of course, it is always a special task to look at the impact that this will have on the mobility of the population, as well as the impact on the economy and the environment. These were also the crucial criteria. As far as the impact on the environment is concerned, there is a clear focus in the area of infrastructure investment in public transport, in a transport that is environmentally friendly, namely the railway, where we have decided to invest twice as high infrastructural over the next few years as in the road sector. To the negotiations I have conducted in this connection with the countries: The result is not only the current amendment of the Federal Road Law, but we have made cost-effective agreements after an evaluation of the road projects with all federal states – regardless of whether the rescales, pre-financings or other periods of time are. All the possibilities have been used to achieve this goal, namely € 519 million less; today no one here has converted into Schilling, because it is not about spending something. Today, you are taking a decision that, in terms of existing agreements, € 519 million will be spent less on road projects, for road projects that are not necessary in this dimension, but where we will nevertheless achieve good transport solutions, where we will relieve local cores where we provide a good infrastructure to the population and the economy. It doesn't have to be a highway every road in our country. That's why I'm glad to be able to save this big sum. Two projects from the Federal Roads Act are also deleted today: This is the A 24 in Vienna, which would have been just one more €490 million, and at the A 26 North alone €400 million. That is, we are talking about a volume of €1.4 billion that we do not invest in road infrastructure, but we can still offer – and this is important to me – a good transport solution for the population, the economy and the environment. What is also important to me is to stress: We have not put an investment stop, because we need a well-developed road infrastructure, and we are investing € 1 billion in the road infrastructure in the next few years. That's as much as never before. Half of it flows in the area of transport safety. The three items on the agenda today in the plenary session, concerning my section, are entitled “Sparity and More Transport Safety”. I can say that only conscience here, since half of these funds are in traffic safety measures, for example in second tunnel tubes. The Tauerntunnel fire in 1999 is certainly still remembered by many here. Therefore, once again: This is about real and good investment, not only investment that brings good infrastructure but also more security. When it's built, it's often done so automatically in the back of the head: This certainly takes a lot longer, and everything will certainly get much more expensive! – But it is Not like that. And to give you a very concrete example as regards the second Tauerntunnel tube, where the traffic release took place last week: The second Tauerntunnel tube has been completed precisely on point, precisely on the day when it was said that this date is the target. And as far as the financing of this tunnel tube is concerned, we were not only time-consuming, but have even spent € 31 million less than originally planned in the plannings. This means that even as far as infrastructure is concerned, professionals are at work planning to build, and they will turn every euro five times to achieve precisely this efficiency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I am always pleased when witnesses who, like me, are undisputed experts, who are financing what is going to happen, for example, IHS Chief Bernhard Felder, who is also the president of the State Debt Committee, say – literally – that: “We have precisely calculated the repayment plan of the Ministry of Infrastructure at the State Debt Committee. He works.” – Quote. In conclusion: It's about investments we're making, and it's good investment money. We look at every euro. We need good transport solutions in Austria, but, as I said, not every road has to be a motorway, but it is a matter of providing good infrastructure for the people, the economy and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19099	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19120	Mr President. Mrs Verkehrsminister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Minister, if you are now saying that environmental criteria were criteria for the amendment or examination of the Federal Road Law, I ask myself: Why Make You do not have strategic environmental tests if you already have the criteria at hand? Climate protection was definitely not a criterion, because you will not tell me that projects like the Westring or S 7 and others are climate-friendly. On the contrary, this Federal Road Act still contains some projects where the traffic burden at Weitem is not such that one has to make a transit route for it: There, in these regions, one has to relieve and no further burden. And there's a number where, I think, you have to look at them very carefully: Whether they're inside or not – By the way, I would actually expect an examination of whether a transport project is necessary or not, before we incorporate it into a law and before it is somehow considered as such. I am pleased, however, that this amendment to the Federal Road Act will result in at least one of these unnecessary transit routes, which I have requested, and that is the S 31 in the central Burgenland. This is exactly one of the routes where traffic is actually down, where we do not have the necessary traffic over the entire length, which would justify the construction of a motorway, which actually contradicts the regional economy and is not environmentally compatible. Therefore, I am pleased that it is once again so far today that an unnecessary road project is removed from this law. I hope that further follow, and it We also need to follow if we take into account the disastrous Austrian climate balance and, above all, take account of the development of the regions. That is, I see this as a first encouraging step today and am glad to follow when others follow. By the way, as always, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19169	There is no further word message to this effect. I'll close the debate. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 1204 of the supplements. There is a desire for a separate vote by Mr Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. First, a separate vote on paragraph 14 of the draft law, as amended by the Government's proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 17 of the draft law as it stands. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to give your consent to this part. – This is accepted by a majority. I shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask you to accept your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We'll come to the third reading. If you are also in third reading for this draft, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[17:33:31]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (1222, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a law on external quality assurance in higher education and the Agency for Quality Assurance and Accreditation Austria (HOS-QSG) and a Federal Law on Private Universities (PUG) as well as the Fachhochschule Studiengesetz (FHStG), the Education Documentation Act, the Health and Hospital Care Act, the midwives Act and the MTD Law (Quality Assurance Framework Act – QSRG) (1318 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19240	We're coming to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19269	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I'll send you in advance: In itself, this legislative initiative, which you have presented, has also been prepared and prepared by your predecessor, an important law, and I express our disappointment that we have only come to such a government proposal in the Quality Assurance Act, which unfortunately does not include essential things in our opinion. We would also have liked to discuss this in detail with you in the Committee, but you have proved yourself to be very writty there, only to my opinion on anglicisms have given a speech and have also led to the meeting that you are only in office and have tried to raise any objections at this time to the bodies concerned, and that this has been done there and there. – That was the whole opinion of yours, and I therefore use the opportunity to briefly present our views of things here in plenary on this quality assurance law for tertiary education. In advance, it must be said: In our view, it does not include all educational institutions located in the tertiary education sector. It is true that pedagogical universities are not included, nor are other institutions of scientific nature, because they are located in the Ministry of Education, and they have been left untouched. We already believe that a quality measure is indivisible and would ultimately be superior to all university institutions and not only should piecework remain – although we know the reason: because this department is run by your government partner and was therefore not included. This is a shame because it does not make room for exactly what one wants to do, namely to implement the administrative economy, to save administration. Indeed, we were in favour of the fact that, in view of our council-unculture, which we have operated in recent years and decades, we are doing a harmonization here, although we would have liked to have it organized differently. But there are some essential things to note, including content. We assume that, as many universities see it, interventions are being made in the university's autonomy, which were not planned or foreseen in the 2002 UG. They have created a Council for the future, an agency in this case, but with very, very many bodies. You write, there is an institution, an advisory board, a board, a general assembly, a board, and much more. New, on the other hand, is that you are going ahead for the first time – and this is really new – by setting a quota for the delivery of these councils. On the one hand, it is like a red thread, that of course the social partners are strongly favoured when sending – which is also a thorn in our mind and also very, very many interested parties – on the other hand, write You're fixing a 45 percent quota for women. And then, funnyly, there are bodies made up of five people. Now we've calculated: Five people, at least 45 percent of them must be women. That means at least three must be women. You could've written in there right now: 51 or 55 percent must be women. – It is the first time that absolute majority voting is set by quota as regards gender. [[Call the Greens.]] Then there is a panel made up of 14 people – 45 percent are exactly seven, that is, 50 percent; there is no – and a panel with 23 people – since it is still allowed to sit a overhang by a man in this body. So we are already very disappointed because this is no longer a minimum quota, but it is already a minimum quota for securing the absolute majority from one sex. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: I think the electoral reform is also aimed at that!]] That is a pity and a criticism, we believe, because we do not believe that this is a scientific approach. Then, of course, we fear significant additional expenses in terms of personnel, but also in financial terms – I am going to comment on this – as a result of the quasi-monopolization of this agency in many areas. But what is most important to us is that you also write into the law that research can also be quality-secured, audited and audited. We consider this to be worrying, because we believe that this is one of the academic principles, that only through proven excellence can ultimately quality in the field of research be verified. We have best practices at the FWF or at the Academy of Sciences. And that's what the other one is: It is also not a cultural dimension for us, which you present here, if you would like to have the advice and on the other hand the certification of one place on the one hand. This also does not correspond to the international standard of corporate governance when such things coincide. What was then made is that an ombudsmanship is set up for students – it is obviously the massive criticism of the Austrian high school, which one wants to take into account, or of the student attorneyship. Let's take a positive look at it: Students have an additional job where they can deal with their concerns. What we fear and what can probably not be excluded are massive double and multi-tracks, and that should not have been done in this form. What surprises me then is: Titles will be awarded to many in the future. The board has a management role, and there is a need to look at the government template for the Quality Assurance Agency: The law is almost longer than the university law! With the private university law section it is much longer. In my opinion, this is not exactly an administrative simplification either. But as far as the board is concerned, for example: I don’t know why they don’t call it “business management. ” This is a management sui generis. One uses an English term, in the case of “board” – in German the board is called. And then we continue to develop the English language in the German language, because we form a genius that is not at all available in English, because you then arrange the order “of the boards” in § 7 for example – with a “Siegfried” at the end. Mr. Federal Minister, you are a classical philologist. And I'd have thought that you're an aesthetic of language and that you won't happen to something like this and that it hurts you if you see something like that here. Apart from the fact that it is also grammatically wrong, because the board – the “board” – is not ordered, but at best the members of the board – at best the members can be ordered! – then use English terms where you make a declination, which is not available in English at all. It's new. That's what it's all about. But now there's something else where the content goes, and I want to read that to you. They write in § 10, and this is proposed to us: ‘Management of the Agency and the Office’. And that's where you say in the Abs. 1: “The President or President of the Board” – that is, “the Board” – “leads the board and the office...” so far, so bad. He or she is thus directing the meeting of the Supervisory Board itself and in addition the office. ==References== 4 of the same section then reads: “The office is headed by the managing director or the managing director and their representative. ...” So we have two tops in the monocatic administration: on the one hand, the head of the “board” – that’s really funny – and on the other hand, another head of the office. And then supervisory functions are mixed with management and operational activities, and the board, which is to exercise oversight of management, is itself head of the office and much more. This can only lead to a variety of conflicts that we see coming. We therefore see, for many, many reasons – legal nature, grammatical nature, because of the use of language, and ultimately also because of a number of bodies that are sent to social partners, where no or less qualification is required than we had before, and much more – shortcomings in this law. When I look at what is cited at your university in Innsbruck as a qualification profile for the study of classical philology – I quote only one sentence –: “The frequent translation from Latin into German and the comparative considerations to be used in this context achieves a higher level of competence in practical and theoretical handling of one’s own mother tongue.” Perhaps you are in office too short and have not yet been able to enforce, but I hope that the next laws are at least better from the linguistic quality, Mr. Federal Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19317	Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19338	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I listened very carefully to the colleague Graf and noted: It has proved very well that we had such an intensive discussion process, because the soup is very thin – I would say popularly, in your language – because if you do not think more of criticism than what you have presented, you may still be able to agree to this law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to the Quality Assurance Framework Act. It is an important step towards the further development of our university area, as this should be a reliable and high level of education. Quality for students – and no one can be, Dr. Graf. We all have to make every effort to ensure that the offers for our students meet the European standards, ensure quality and ensure the equivalence of the qualifications in the European context. With this law, we would like to ensure European standards in Austria in the common university area. It's important that we supplement autonomy. We don't get them off, quite the contrary, we supplement them: Autonomy on the one hand and external quality assurance on the other – two important pillars for the further development of our high-performance Austrian university. We have already anchored internal quality assurance in the 2002 UG. It is now being supplemented by that second pillar, namely external quality assurance. This is a European standard. We face this challenge. Secondly, this law is also an administrative simplification. It brings together three different institutions in a quality assurance agency. It ensures that the various areas of tasks and expertise of the three institutions, which have previously worked separately – for quality assurance in the university area, for quality assurance in the technical education sector and for the accreditation of private universities – are now brought together and that this expertise is jointly available to all sectors, namely universities, public universities and private universities. The motto of this Quality Assurance Act is: Where “Bachelor”, “Master” and “PhD” stand on it, the corresponding study must also be included. – The external quality assurance agency should ensure that all requirements are met. Ladies and gentlemen! With this Quality Assurance Act, we have taken all European requirements into account, but also ensure that students receive a reliable offer. What else do we need? . As a next step, we need the appropriate capacity planning, study-place financing and admission procedures, especially in those areas of study which are overrun. Therefore, in the next step, we need to continue to develop quality with the higher education plan, which is a very important step, and we need an extension of vocational training courses, especially in vocational training. This means that in the end, several short, coordinated curriculums together with the universities lead to a tertiary degree. We would therefore like to expand the offer for our students in the future. Today, however, we complete the quality assurance of the existing offers. Mr Federal Minister, thank you and the department very much for this good work that you have led through a great discussion process. Thanks To Your place of business for this work!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19406	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19427	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Cortolezis-Schlager! I don't want to have a soup discussion now, but what I already value: Parliament is a control body, and if there were scientific speakers here, I would be pleased if these speeches would not sound like those of a press speaker of the relevant department. This is not the meaning of Parliament. Quality assurance is something important, but imagine, there have been quality assurances at universities for a long time. One can talk about how good they are, where they are expandable, where they have failed, or where the Ministry has not drawn the slightest conclusions from evaluations. A poor output or some shortcomings in the universities are not always indebted to themselves, but also to the allocation of resources and resources, as well as ultimately the financing and the department. If there are already quality assurances and evaluations, I would expect a quality assurance law to show quite clear and clear improvements. That means more transparency, it must be better implemented, it must be bureaucratic to handle. There should be substantial comparisons between the different disciplines and locations, and there should be instructions for action that could lead to increased quality in the future. For example, if I look at the ombudsman's office now, I wonder what's going on. The “student’s attorneyship ” used to be called. “Anwalt” means a man or woman who works for the interests of the students. In a Council of Ministers lecture in 2001, this student attorneyship was also characterized by the fact that it receives complaints from the students. Now only a “service ” point is mentioned. I mean, it's the university's business and the ministry's business to offer students a service. A good study, for example, is a service, good study documents are a service. But where should people go if they have complaints? Should not this word be found in the text of a law at all? Do you think if that's not in it anymore, then there's no more complaints because everything's so great? - I think no. I think it's also very annoyed that you don't have to do it. It took a student attorneyship, including branches of it at every university, and they also needed resources. I'm missing a lot. If you evaluate better, you need more resources. It is about atomic physics, sociology and language sciences to the master class in cello games. Is it supposed to do a board with 14 people? They will have to buy know-how, expensive and not cheap. They characterise in the law that persons must have excellent knowledge of international higher education, scientific experience in quality assurance. – That’s all nice to say – I’ve read a lot of nice things in federal research strategies, there’s nets in it everywhere – but when it comes to how to do it, how to finance it, how to guarantee it, then you can’t find a line about it. I maintain the criticism that the entire tertiary sector should be subject to this quality assurance. I think it is a tenuous, boring and also embarrassing excuse if one argues that the educational universities belong to another place, belong to another party, so that is not possible. In my opinion, a government that cannot strike a good bracket over two sites has failed not only in the administrative reform, but also in creativity. It also failed to better define private universities, which was the wish of many critics. For example, it could have been written in that private This reflected what ‘Universitas’ means in some way: a wide and diverse offer, and not to know more and less about it. A private university of dentistry, “Universitas”, is not enough for upper and lower jaws alone. The criticism of the accreditation rate, which I would like to quote, seems essential to me: The right to create a cross-sectoral quality assurance system is essentially not realized, as the application of quality assurance procedures and their legal consequences for public universities, technical universities and private universities are still treated differently without objective justification. - Quote. I also wonder – one should evaluate teaching, research and administration, which also has something to do with quality; these areas should not eat –: How do you ensure that the necessary expertise is available? Not everyone who can assess the curriculum with regard to the profession can equally assess the quality of research. I think that's impossible. The belief in miracle may well have to get away with the government. But what is still interesting is an article by Dr. Werner Hauser of Joanneum Research, University Law. There it says: The board shall decide on accreditation and on extensions of the board. However, any decision needs the approval of the Minister, and this department does not, in the end, have the status of an objectively competent supreme authority. - Quote. That's what the Constitutional Service says. There's something going on. My last sentence deals critically with the question of independence: Is a quality assurance agency independent, partly financed by the federal government and partly through its own revenue? Can it be influenced or not? How can you ensure this independence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19500	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19522	High house! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We today have a draft law that has been prepared, negotiated for many months, and has been revised several times under the consultation of many of those affected. I think now is a really good result. Three ministers participated in this legislative project; started under Minister Hahn, continued under Minister Karl, now led to an end under Minister's daughter. Today, we are discussing a joint quality assurance facility for our universities with uniform procedures that meet European standards and applies to all universities under the Ministry of Science, i.e. universities, technical universities and private universities. The preparation of basic reforms in the field of pedagogical training is currently under way, will be provided for as a general rule, and in this context it is also obvious that specific procedures will also be developed for this newly designed area. As far as the independence of these institutions is concerned, I think it has been given to a high and necessary extent. I would like to point out, as we have already discussed this in the Committee, that, with all my commitment to autonomy and to the independence of such institutions, I would also like to warn against the fact that politics is increasingly degenerating itself. We should all be interested in finally discussing important educational decisions politically and politically. Today, we also decide to amend the University of Applied Sciences Law, which from our point of view contains some important improvements, such as the abolition of the so-called flat-rate material costs, which have shown hidden study fees and which will no longer exist in the future. We enable a longer duration of study for vocational training courses to create more flexibility where it is desired to find better compatibility with the profession. In future, fees for admission procedures will be prohibited. For the first time, minimum standards are set up in study law. A college will be created which will for the first time bring the corresponding anchoring of the co-determination of students and teachers. The women's quota applies to all the bodies that are being decided today and the provisions for women's promotion in vocational colleges and private universities are extended; also an important point from our point of view. Finally, I would like to point out that, from our point of view, all of this is of course important to ensure quality assurance in the Austrian university sector, but that, in order to ensure the appropriate quality assurance for our universities, appropriate financial security of Austrian universities is particularly important in order to ensure appropriate training and training opportunities for all young people in our country who want to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19564	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19585	Mr President. High house! The aim of the Quality Assurance Framework Act was to create some order in quality assurance and also in accreditation in Austria and to summarize three existing institutions in one, namely the High School Council, the Austrian Accreditation Council and the Austrian Quality Assurance Agency in the Quality Assurance and Accreditation Agency Austria. The problem was that the basic idea was correct and important that one could also support it, but the implementation was, again, typical Austrian. In reality, the law will create an exuberant bureaucracy and probably a suture to it. I also give some examples. The occupation of the organs. – The General Assembly, which will meet twice a year, has 23 members; six of them come from the social partners' office, two from the ministries; thus quite classic red-black occupied. In addition, the board, the so-called board of directors, has 14 members. – I ask myself in general – the FPÖ has problems with the female rate; I have no –: Why do six out of 14 members have to be foreigners on the board? I'm asking you! I think that is unique in the legislation in Austria that you have to occupy organs almost 50 percent with foreigners. What's the background? Nothing against the delivery by experts from abroad, but to commit them to an organ I don't think is targeting. The technical opinions of the Accreditation Council and the Quality Assurance Agency on the table have already been partially quoted. I also welcome an opinion from the Quality Assurance Agency, which reads: In view of the planned organisational structure and an interest-politically controlled occupation of the institutions, it should be feared that neither the trust of the Austrian Higher education will be recognised at European level. This would have dramatic consequences for Austria as a university location. - Quote. Although ÖVP and SPÖ have tabled an amendment, they do not take account of this fundamental criticism. That is to say, it is ultimately a Husch-Fuch-law, which is also soft. This can be seen in the explanations. For example, ‘all organs meeting fees’ shall mean: €231 000; ‘Personal AQA’: €400 000. That is, the organs have already reached almost 60 percent of the personnel costs – a huge sum! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] ‘Catering meetings’ means € 13 100. 13 100 €, Mrs Hakl, for two or three meetings a year. This has to be a nice festival menu that you serve there. „rent“: 130 000 € – not very little. These are things to question. I ask myself, Mr Minister – I have already put this question in committee – that: Will it be cheaper? Is it going to be more expensive? How to argue? – We say from BZÖ that we pay enough for this law. We've paid enough. It enshrines the proportion, factually, professionally, it is rejected by the experts, and it is still sluggish about it. That is why this proposal cannot ultimately be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19643	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19664	Mr President. High house! Allow me, before I go into the content, to reject the language criticism, because in terms of grammar, no one is flicking at me about stuff. The German allows for the flexion of foreign words in the German declination system, so I can say “the boards”. Similarly, if I declinate the word “curatorium, ” I can say “the curatorium. ” You can see that the language is very integrative. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] But now ad rem, on the matter. I am very glad that we are discussing the Quality Assurance Framework Act here in plenary today and that it is with 1. March 2012 will enter into force, because with this law we carry out a very important stage in the Bologna process, a stage on which content in Europe has been discussed intensively for years and on which intensive work is being carried out. Especially because we want to autonomously design the high schools, the universities, the colleges, the private universities, we need instruments for quality assurance, because in these institutions a lot of public money or money is used and used by sponsors, and all of them have the right – especially the public – to have an instrument that ensures the quality of these institutions, and it is important to stress that this quality assurance is not about the quality of research and teaching, but about the quality of the process. That's crucial. In terms of the quality of research, the international research community, which – as you say today, because you prefer English – is still the crucial criterion. There I give right to all those who stress this, including the critics of the law. This is the crucial criterion for content quality. This law deals with the quality of the process and its analysis. That's what this law regulates. This is a difficult subject, a complex subject; that's why his condition has taken a long time. But it is now a very good draft, as I believe, which creates a very sustainable framework for quality assurance and the quality development of our high schools. As we know, it has been in discussion since 2009, and it has, until last, taken an intensive part in the discussion of all those concerned. We have so far tried to bring all those concerned into force, so to speak, and to take all the objections into account in the framework of a compromise. It has been shown that the discussions of this common framework have been felt by all to be important and welcomed by all, and that, in the end, an organisation of the roof comes out, namely the Agency for Quality Assurance and Accreditation Austria, which adheres very closely to the European standards and sets these standards, so that we have a European, an international product ahead of us, which we can draw up and which we can be proud of. I would like to thank all those who have contributed constructively. It was a difficult process, but also a successful one. As mentioned above, we are now pooling three agencies into one. This also means, of course, that there can be no very simple structure of the bodies. It is difficult to combine all these individual bodies; however, I think that means a real administrative reform, an administrative simplification, a pooling of competences and resources. I would also like to thank my predecessors who have initiated this law, namely Minister Hahn and Minister Karl. I have had the honour of finalising this law, and I thank you for the success of this finalization through the constructive cooperation of many. I am convinced that we can now build on a very good basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19721	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19743	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For almost twelve years, we have been talking about quality assurance in higher education at European level in the framework of the Bologna reforms. It's really time for you to thank God. It was a long and laborious way, but he paid off. Of course, quality can be difficult to measure, but you can demand it. Quality does not develop by itself, but through intensive information one can create conditions and set in motion specific changes in order to improve the quality of existing things. - And that's what happened now. The requirements are now given to guarantee a decisive increase in quality. A simplification of the administration was also allowed, because one was made from three agencies. No one can tell me now that this would get more expensive. In addition, it is ensured that the same standards apply to all university types and courses of university character, except, of course, for the educational universities, which, as has already been said, are located in the classroom. Only the fact that 47 European countries were involved in this process has the effect of promoting mobility and ensuring competitiveness at national and international level. Quality in higher education is not just a keyword: This quality has adopted concrete forms. Nothing is as important as a well-founded quality-proof, high-quality training. The “quality assurance new” is the result of an intensive process and brings a far-reaching improvement to universities, to technical universities and to private universities. And we can be calmly proud of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19788	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19809	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf, since we have spent a very long time in the committee on your German language trips and the question of whether the word "board" is to be declination or not – and even today – I would like to say a few things to you. First: When you enter "board" into the English-German dictionary – quite normal on your mobile phone, on your computer wherever you go – then there are a lot of meanings. It takes – I admit – a certain intellect to find out the right one. So when you enter "board", the first "attack table" comes. I don't suppose you believed it was. But as the second, “committee ” is coming. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then we call it “committee”!]] There will then be “Baugruppe”, “Behörde” and “Bohle” – it’s a German dictionary – that is, “Brett”. That is to say, it is true, of course, that there is a need for a certain intellect to find out the right thing, but, Mr Graf, Mr President, the FPÖ and the question of German language have already employed many people, including many editors who have researched German in particular concerning FPÖ. At the very moment, by Mr Neubauer: “Expert hearing” – hears, hears, a FPÖ broadcast with expert hearing! – ‘in the Environment Committee despite EIA’. [[Abg. Neubauer: Because it was the Committee's expression!]] – With “he”, ÖVP-W he is with “he”. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So there's even better "board" for me. Then there was the listing in 2009: “First German, then school”. It reads as follows: ‘School mediation of cultural values’. – Cultural and Value and. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Oh, no, So German skills? Asylum fraud, 2008: ‘Asyl fraud means home flight’. – “Hey ss t” with two S. “Board” “heisst”? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's going to be not enough!]] Then Mrs. Kultur Spokesman Heidemarie Unterlander congratulated Mr. Christoph Waltz on the Oscar. In the title, see “Waltz” with “tz” and “Oscar” with “c”. Then she probably entered Waltz, because she took the T away and left only more “walt” writing. And she also entered the “Oskar”, the C out and the K in. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] So obviously there are already tendencies to deal with the German language or also with names a little bit of your own. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We don't keep it in law!]] If I look at the FPÖ favorites now, for example, although something else is being reported to us by the relevant ladies and gentlemen, the magistrate finds something different. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] So German? Decline Board? – So one basic work. Let me finish! Mr Graf, at the next Convention of FPÖ, perhaps you should inflame a "fistula nicotiana" and explain the German language to your fellow students. And for those who did not understand: He can light a cigarette and explain to them how to write “German”.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19933	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e19954	High house! After the extremely amusing German courses, I now have the comparatively ungrateful task of submitting an amendment request and reading it. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Is the "board" now falling out?]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are mostly editorial reports that are corrected. A change was particularly important to me: In the future, the colleges should also be able to take part in the appointment and appointment of teaching staff and submit proposals on this subject, but not alone. In the future, in view of the fact that they also have to pay the teaching staff, the recipients will continue to retain the sovereignty of the contract here in principle. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20058	Mrs Colleague, please go back to the pult! Because of the fragrant similarity with the Z4, the Z5 has remained. I'm asking you to refer this to me. It is part of the application.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20073	I don't have the Z5. Roman 5? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The Z 5 in the I. article, did I forget it? Aha, I'm sorry. Excuse me! Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to: ‘I. (...) 5. In § 24 para. The second sentence is replaced by the words ‘accredited studies’ and ‘immature effect’.’ Thank you many times, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20120	The amendment is therefore also complete and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20281	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20302	Mr President. Mr. Minister! We've heard it a few times today: Within the framework of this Quality Assurance Framework Act, a minimum standard of study law is laid down for students at professional universities for the first time. In other words, in the future, the participation of students and teachers will be institutionally anchored at technical universities. But, Minister, let me take the opportunity and say a few words to the University Center Rottenmann. With a smiling and crying eye, I look at the solution that the Ministry of Science has given us. With a smiling eye, because the continuation of the University Center Rottenmann is first assured and with a crying eye, because the previous study directions – operational information management, geoinformation technology and geoinformation management – end in 2015 and no new inscription is possible. Rather, the University Center of Rottenmann will continue to work as a distance study centre with a strong career-accompanied orientation in the future, writes the Minister in a press release. Mr. Minister! The political representatives and the population of the Liezen district will be very careful to ensure that the new concept, which is based not only on distance learning, but also on research and a career-accompanied master's programme, is fully implemented. Yes, a stage victory has been achieved, but only in the coming months will it be seen if the concept is fulfilled with university life, because it depends on it last Finally, whether the university location of Rottenmann can be permanently established.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20345	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20366	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am convinced that this law is of any benefit to students in Austria, not only because there will be a new ombudsman's office, to which one can also address concerns or problems, but above all because, when study sections or study parts are completed abroad, there is finally the possibility to compare transparently what possibilities of accounting there are, what the education offer at other university locations looks like, and above all – that is always relevant – which is counted in Austria. I believe that is the real benefit, including for students – and that is why it is so important to support this law. It has been said several times that it is about the better comparability of the studies, but it is also about the transparency of quality and performance. Of course, external quality features are in the foreground; However, part of the law is also internal quality standards. These are intended to help improve our level of higher education in the final effect. I do not wish to mention that there was also a committee in the Scientific Committee, namely the registration of cross-border studies. On the one hand, recognition of postsecondary educational institutions abroad and on the other hand the comparability of these studies with Austrian studies is a prerequisite for these registrations. The Committee also wanted to maintain quite clearly that this registration is not about examining the contents of the study, but rather about the comparability of the conditions of admission, the duration of the studies, the level and the academic value and the recognition in the country of origin and residence. I think that the establishment of the body responsible for quality assurance and accreditation is not only simplified and cheaper in terms of administration, but can also be an important and good step so that our universities can continue to assert themselves in both European and international comparisons.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20399	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20421	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I should like to refer once again to the essential areas of this law: on the one hand, the fragmentation in the previous quality assurance – we have heard it in part – now the uniform external quality assurance with the definition of quality assurance procedures: Evaluation, creation of collegial structures, up to the college councils, and creation and development of the accreditation of private universities. It's right: The only objective criticism that one has heard of the opposition – in addition to the linguistic areas that were discussed in detail; otherwise there was not much there, I'm sorry, but perhaps something else comes up – the following question was concerned – and one has to ask critically behind it: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We said a lot!]] Why are the educational universities not yet included? – That would have been desirable and useful. But I mean, we all know – Mr Kuntzl has already pointed out – that we are in a real break here. We will soon be able to decide how to look at the new teacher training in which areas who are responsible for what. Then there's also the time to look at: How can we integrate the new teacher training into these new quality frameworks? The second is: We also know – and this too will be done – that the educational universities need a different form of autonomy than we know from the universities. We have other requirements that we want for the new teachership than is the case at the universities. And that is why it is also new and specific to define. Even if science and teaching venues were together – I also do not let the argument apply: only because it is a different place, it is not involved – one should not involve it at this time or do so meaningfully, because it is a separate discussion that is in place in the near future. We want to secure the quality. And today's law is a very important and important step. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20459	No further words are available here. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 1222 of the supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Cortolezis-Schlager, Mag. Kuntzl, ladies and gentlemen, who has amendments to Article 1, 2, 3, and in the heading to Article 5. There is only one request. That is why we are voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template, taking into account the amendment that has just been mentioned by the honourable Member Mag. Cortolezis-Schlager, Mag. Kuntzl, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Ladies and gentlemen, who are also in third reading for this draft, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – The draft law was adopted by a majority and was therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:26:57]] 12. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Stoneographic Protocol to the Parliamentary Survey (III-239 final) on the theme “Common agricultural policy after 2013 – opportunities and challenges for Austria” (1282 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20515	We're coming to the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20544	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the survey on common agricultural policy is concerned, I believe all parties agreed that we need a common, strong European agricultural policy and not a renationalisation of agricultural policy. The ecological management of the landscape is important, and Austrian farmers really manage the landscape ecologically. 90 percent participate voluntarily in an environmental programme. We have the highest share of organic farmers in Austria, i.e. we are really sustainable and gentle with existing resources. There is a clear political commitment to sustainable small-structured agriculture, which has ultimately given consumers safety and comprehensibleness over the last decades. This responsibility and this competence will continue to be the responsibility of Austrian farmers to produce and market safe and healthy food for consumers. However, what rural family farms need is stable political framework – not constantly uncertain political discussions when it comes to agricultural funds – and fair, fair prices for their products. Last week, the EU Commission officially presented its proposals for the 2014 to 2020 financial framework, and in the agricultural budget, cuts of more than 6.5 percent are planned. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to support the preservation of a multifunctional, comprehensive agricultural policy. It is therefore not understandable why agricultural policy is the only European policy area to accept budget cuts. We won't accept that either. I am glad – Mr Federal Minister, welcome! – that you have found many allies in Europe who together are going our way, this eco-social path, this model of life Europe, this model of life that has come from Austria, which we are trying to implement in the future also in the EU. [[towards Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] The future European agricultural policy is about food sovereignty, vital rural areas, so this must also be taken into account in the budget plans. We cannot put this farmland on a competitive footing, where there is industrialized agriculture, while in this agricultural sector we have high standards in the environment, in the animal welfare sector, in the social field. Therefore, we cannot suspend this from industrialized agriculture, where there are no standards: where there are no production standards, where there are no environmental standards, where there are no animal welfare standards, and where there is ultimately slave labour, ladies and gentlemen, in this industrialized agriculture. [[Abg. Huber: Slavery!]] That's not what we want, that's the wrong way. 65 percent of EU citizens support the financial support of farmers. We need to find allies at all levels, in Parliament, in the Council of Ministers, in a cross-party way, Mr Pirklhuber, not constantly polemizing the farmers, but in a cross-party way. It will therefore be important that, in the negotiations at European level, not only our agriculture minister puts pressure on our way, for our interests, but also the entire Federal Government, and especially our Federal Chancellor, in the final negotiations at government level, achieve at least the same result as Wolfgang Schüssel, ladies and gentlemen at the time! This is also an appeal to those who always make us dispute, to those who always say that the farmers get too much. This is also an appeal to the Chamber of Workers. This is not just about farmers. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is about 170 000 farmers, yes, but it is also about 500 000 jobs in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is about 500 000 jobs in Austria, so I really have a request: That is the end of this class struggle, a strong common agricultural policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] A strong common agricultural policy means safety for consumers, safety for workers, and ultimately safety for farmers is a prerequisite. [[Abg. Huber: The speech is old!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20631	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20652	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The survey on “Joint Agricultural Policy after 2013 – Opportunities and Challenges for Austria” was very informative and good. It should be noted that there was also broad support for greater distribution justice in agriculture. In the context of the general debate with the Minister and the discussion of the Enquete Protocol, there were numerous opinions calling on the Minister of Agriculture to make concrete statements on his negotiations. The debate on the future of the EU budget in the EU Commission is in the final round. The President of the European Commission is thinking of cuts – and not our Chancellor, Mr Grillitsch! – he is thinking of cuts in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. [[Abg. Grill: I didn't say!]] [[Abg. Grill: Then you didn't understand!]] – I already understood! The background is the co-financing of rural support programmes; EU Member States such as Greece and other indebted countries cannot be included in the cost of the programmes, according to Barroso. On the other hand, the cuts would focus on agricultural environmental programmes and investment aid for farmers. The SPÖ sees the reform of the CAP in the EU as opportunities for maintaining and improving rural areas. Over the last ten years, some 30,000 farms have locked up and 14 percent of jobs have been lost. We therefore call for greater commitment from SPÖ to more jobs and development of education in rural areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It can't be that 20 percent of farms get 80 percent of the funding! Austrian practices, for example, that a person registers land premiums without land management or animal premiums without animal husbandry, must be terminated. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: This is not possible, land premiums without land management!]] In the future, work is also to be taken into account, because the rural families do work on every holiday. On 365 days they do a lot, so it makes sense: Away from the promotion of hectares, towards the promotion of farms on the basis of a standardized, necessary working time! The calculations for this are that this would be a useful way for the future. To ensure mining promotion is also a basic prerequisite. Yes, agricultural compensatory payments are payments for benefits, so a re-transmission of agricultural funds is important. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of ceilings and fairer remuneration of labour difficulties, labour intensity and labour costs bring more justice to our farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20722	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20743	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! “Joint agricultural policy after 2013” – have new insights been made in this survey? – I say: No, not to a very large extent. As for farmers after 2013, how they manage their farms, the EU does not matter. Less compensatory payments, more rules that are almost impossible to fulfil! We all say and rightly demand that our farmers produce excellent food that produces basic foods. It must be our common goal, ladies and gentlemen, that this remains the case. – Ours from the FPÖ is definitely it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Social Home Party!]] It must also be worth it to us, ladies and gentlemen, that the compensatory payments are made for our agricultural farms, for farmers, especially for the hard-working, committed mountain farmers who have their farms in the most difficult situations. [[Abg. Grosz: The liberal mountain cows!]] - Grosz, please, be quiet! Come out and talk on, dear friend. You have no idea how the mining works, dear friend! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The miners make enormous efforts. If not, it will be narrow in the future, not only about Mr Grosz, but also about our landscape, about our beautiful landscape. I think that's important: Our landscape is the lung of our homeland! - Thank you. [[Abg. Grosz: Then the species always come out of the last row!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20822	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20843	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The survey on agricultural policy after 2013 was, as Mr Schönpass correctly noted, a good event in itself. I also think that this was essentially a good start in a deeper Austrian debate. Nevertheless, what has become visible in this discussion? – I would like to take out some cracking points, but the keywords have already been liked in part. It will certainly be a great challenge to ensure a sufficient budget pot to cover the budget for the agricultural policy after 2013. We have given a public opinion following the presentation of the Lewandowski budget draft. I believe that what the Commission has presented is not yet acceptable. We also need to continue to discuss strategicly where the funds are missing and why they are missing there. But let's go on. The question of justice is quite clearly on the agenda, not only in Europe but also in Austria. I do not think it can and must not be refused if we are to have a good agricultural policy in the sense of the whole of the Community. In the future, it is also intended to secure agricultural agriculture. More ecology and a greener agricultural policy, this is the EU Commission's announcement. I also made this clear in the survey and made a clear statement on this: We are dealing with this question behind Commissioner Ciolos. The greening of the whole agricultural policy and also the first pillar is a real development, is a proper discussion approach in order to secure the funds for agricultural policy. One is a concern of many and also of us, namely also the green farmers: We want less bureaucracy, we want a practical implementation. I know that this is perhaps one of the most difficult issues when you think about rural development, when you think about rural support. While there is a need for control there, there is no question as in the whole Union, bureaucracy and effort at this level are a huge problem. One of my perceptions of the discussion between SPÖ and ÖVP, even during the survey, I would like to present briefly here. Mr Gaßner has very clearly quoted in the survey and, I believe, has been very consistently quoted from the government programme. I felt that was very pleasant and positive, because I hope it is consensus between ÖVP and SPÖ. I expect that from SPÖ and ÖVP that if there is consensus, that consensus can be felt. You couldn't feel that! On the other hand, on the other hand, we must also say: The criticism of the Chamber of Workers – and this must be expressed openly – in relation to the calculations it presents is indeed necessary! I would like to deepen that once again. It would be necessary to put together and hold the discussion there, if it is said that farmers are capable. You have, of course, reason and ground as a prerequisite for production, and if I sell it, yes, then I already have a wealth, no question, at least if I am in favour at home. But that is the basis of their work and their ability to produce food for society! So when we deal with the debate in this way, I believe that we do not do the right thing and that we do not come to any kind of discussion – on both sides – with which we are also perceived and taken seriously in Europe. This seems to me to be very important as an observation. As I said, from a green point of view, one of the things that should necessarily be part of the discussion is the freedom of genetic engineering in agriculture in Europe. At this point I would like to make a request and request to the Minister for the Environment, and next week we will have the Council of Ministers for the Environment. Yesterday, with clear clarity, the European Parliament confirmed our Austrian path, shared by the GMOs in Upper Austria, in all the federal states, namely that the regions should have the right of self-determination in all other Member States. This right has been granted within the framework of this Parliament's joint resolution in the adoption of the Lepage report and the corresponding additional requests. It must be said that this is an end to Austrian politics, which is also successful in the European Parliament. We should now use all our energy and possibilities to ensure that this majority is also achieved in the Council of Environment Ministers, at the level of officials and in the Council. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you to do everything possible to ensure that Parliament's decision to date is deepened and strengthened. Another topic is bio-enhancement. They have said at the survey themselves, Austria is a World Bio-Championage. I think we have a claim here, but here we also have to say something. That would be a nail sample if in autumn, in the octo on the Commission's requirements for legislative proposals. Then, I think, this is the last moment in which we have to call for an offensive bio-action plan for the new period. A final remark to the draft budget: I do not know how you, Mr Federal Minister, perceive this, but that there should be a European financial transaction tax for the European budget, I think this is a really incredibly interesting proposal. In principle, we Austrian Members support the introduction of such a financial transaction tax; I think it was, at least, the majority of our resolutions here in the House. Then this would be the opportunity to say with all the emphasis: Yes, this part of the budget proposal is important, it is also supported by the Austrian Parliament as a whole, and the Commission cannot resist the pressure of the Council or individual Member States because this is the entry into the proper development of the European budget. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20910	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e20931	High house! We have heard a lot of praise about this survey today, but the reality and the facts are quite different. Today we know that the agricultural budget is reduced by 10 percent. We know that this has an impact of 40 percent on our Austrian farmers! Mr Grillitsch has now said that he will still be fighting, but I have a great deal of concern and great fear with this Minister. We finally needed a minister to present himself to the farmers who are fighting for the farmers. Only in the domestic budget the party-pre-eminent organizations make much more money available and on the other hand to leave the farmers in the rain, to risk thousands of existences, that is the wrong way! [[Abg. Grill: Where is that? Huber, explain: Where is that?]] We need framework conditions for the farmer to know that the Austrian farmer and the Austrian farmer can live on their products. We need an eco electricity law. We have to lift the lid. We need to see that the farmer is going to be an energy farmer. Only if farmers can make massive investments will the money also return to the budget. The Minister announces that he will become cooperatives, he will strengthen and support further preparatory organizations. What's the result? – The result is that free trade is paralysed, the farmers are enslaved by the cooperatives. As Mr Grillitsch correctly said: Farmers were enslaved! The Minister supports it, and we have no answer to it. [[Abg. Hoefinger: You still didn't understand the grill!]] That's where we have to act. When we look at this: The milk quota will be dissolved, farmers' equity will be ruined, farmers will not drive the cows up to the alms throughout the tourist areas. There will be no milk industry there. billions of damage. Who will pay these billions? - I'm curious. The ÖVP probably does not, the ÖVP makes only policy for raiffeisen, for Bayer, for Monsanto and for other corporations. [[Abg. Höfinger: Incorrect!]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Come on!]] It operates lobbying and ruins the existence of our farmers! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need to do our house practice. We must become free of genetic engineering in Austria. Everything people eat is genetically contaminated. [[Abg. Hoefinger: He has no idea!]] Whether fish, meat, eggs or poultry, everything is genetically contaminated, including the entire cosmetics. And then we talk to each other, how great and how classic everything is and that we will fight. Let's do our homework. That's good for our farmers, that's good for our economy, and that's good for all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21027	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21048	Mr President. High house! After the apocalyptic remarks of my predecessor, I want to come back to the ground of reality and return to the truth. When people watch on television how you call the food contaminated here as genetic engineering and say things like that, I have to say: That's not true! [[Abg. Huber: 600 000 tonnes of imported soya, contaminated by genetic engineering!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] If a food is genetically modified, it must be clearly declared. We are free of genetic engineering in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Huber.]] That was also the reason for my initiative in June 2009 following the right to self-determination on the issue of genetic engineering. I want and we want to decide for ourselves in Austria what is happening in our fields. We do not want genetic engineering, and we want to ensure that we remain free of genetic engineering in the future as we do today. [[Abg. Huber: How much do we import?]] In this sense, the European Parliament's decision is an important step that the European Parliament clearly declares and says: Yes, what Austria wants and what Austria initiated in June 2009 should be a right to self-determination on the question of genetic engineering! Every state should decide whether it wants genetic engineering. We don't want her, and that's supposed to be safe. The success was that the Commission took over this under Barroso and said it wanted to anchor this right of self-determination. It is very likely that it will be up to the Commission to bring this into line with EU legislation. I support the Commission in this. Just, it's not won yet! There are some Member States who do not want to do so and who claim that this is contrary to the WTO. We say: No, it is not, because the WTO cannot contradict the fact that a state says it wants to determine for itself what is happening in our fields and fields! But here we are, here we manage to shape Europe. This is also an important point because that is what people in Austria want. The people in Austria do not want genetically modified food, and that is what it will be like in the future. Agricultural policy: The common agricultural policy is the same as regional policy. That is also true and should remain so, a renationalisation has no meaning. That is why a reform of the agricultural policy is of central interest to us in Austria. From 2014 to 2020 there will be a new agricultural policy, and we know quite clearly what we want: We want to continue on the successful path of agriculture in Austria, produce environmentally sustainable high-quality food, which people can also afford, have an intact environment and thus ensure quality of life, for the inhabitants here, but also for the guests, for tourism. When summer time comes, many people like to come to Austria, because the landscape is unique and diverse, in the mountain regions, in the flat country, and that is to be secured in the future. The agricultural policy has so far been successful: We are world champions, no country has so much organic farming; no agriculture in Europe is as young as Austria; and we can continue to have the diverse, small-scale agriculture. Mrs Colleagues, it is already right that a number of farms in agriculture should cease. However, if we did not have the premiums, the eco-payments would end still more farms. This recently confirmed the WIFO in a study. If we did not have agricultural payments, 60 percent of the farms in the mountain area and 50 percent of the farms in the rest of Austria would cease – only from the rural farms – and jobs in rural areas would disappear. There would be another 23 000 jobs lost. That is why we are also fighting for these agricultural payments, because they are important for agriculture but also for rural areas. What we've been waiting for has now occurred. The European Commission has presented the financial perspective, so to speak, the financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020. And here it is that it is gratifying that in many areas there is an increase in the EU budget, for example for research and development. Unfortunately, there is a reduction in the agricultural sector as the only sector in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Unfortunately!]] We cannot accept that. It is gratifying that the cuts are not as extreme as has been said in the room. Budgetary Commissioner Lewandowski has explained several times that he wants to cut the budget heavily, and that there are cuts of 25 to 30 percent in the room. It's not coming now. Commission President Barroso stated that he wanted to shorten rural development in particular. This is a central part of Austrian agricultural policy because we have the environmental programme and mining support in it. This is not going to happen to this extent either. However, there are cuts, and they are not acceptable to us. If Europe has a strategy to promote sustainable growth by 2020, it must not be reduced in that sector of agriculture, which can also represent sustainable growth, not only in farms, but also in the economy around it, including tourism. An ecologically such sustainable path in agriculture can only be taken if there are eco-services. It is said again and again that agricultural promotion is. That too is wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What is it then? There are payments that farmers receive!]] These are programmes of assistance adopted by agriculture. Those who do more for the environment also get more. A biomaker that provides more for the environment also receives a higher eco-lohn. And a farmer who doesn't do anything for the environment gets nothing. It is therefore a voluntary programme and a performance programme. That is what the taxpayer is expecting, because he has a right to know what he is getting for it. And it's also important for the farmers. The principle of performance is an original principle, and we want to continue to do so. In this respect, the AK calculations are also false and misleading, for the AK says the farmers are capable and this wealth is to be counted. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is stupid!]] They argue that by saying that these agricultural payments are social contributions, and they are not. These agricultural payments are wrongly presented as social payments, and they are not. They are cash benefits for which a farmer has to provide services. Therefore, the assets must not be taken into account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How's it going? We have had many obstacles in the debate on the common agricultural policy for two years. In autumn, tough negotiations have ensured that there is no uniform European land premium for farmers. That would be wrong. We were able to ensure that in the negotiations. That was an obstacle we took. A second obstacle: It was said in the previous year that mining aid should come into the first pillar. This would have meant that the miners in Austria had lost massive money. We have also been able to negotiate this, so we have also taken the next obstacle. Now the budget is here. There is a lower reduction. That's nice. It is now about taking the next obstacles: no further cuts and, at all, the distribution of the agricultural budget among the Member States. They know that the Eastern European Member States want more money. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: They get this too!]] There'll be more money there. But it's about how the distribution is. Especially in rural development, Austria currently has a very high share, as mentioned, because we have a great mining and environmental programme. If there is an extreme redistribution, then we lose. That must be said openly. There must be pure wine. So we're fighting to get these resources. Commission President Barroso says that the ecological and sustainable path towards Austrian agriculture is a model for Europe. That's why we're fighting because that makes sense. In conclusion: The central point is that we have achieved a common position in the Council of Ministers, in the Austrian Federal Government, for the negotiations on the common agricultural policy, CAP. We want a strong agricultural policy with sufficient resources. The distribution key is to be maintained, i.e. Austria is to receive the funding it now gets in order to continue this path. We would like to get support for the mountain agriculture and offer opportunities and perspectives in all parts of Austria, in the mountain area, but also in the flatland. This is important in the sense of a wide variety of agriculture. I want farmers to have safety, planned framework conditions for the next few years, but also consumers to benefit from the common agricultural policy by getting safe and sustainable food. I also want farmers to be able to perform as a service, eco-services, food services to cover the table of people in Austria. In this sense, we have taken some obstacles. Some work is still ahead of us. Thank you all for going this way together.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21177	Next speaker: Mr Schultes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21198	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! First of all: I am glad that, with our Federal Minister Berlakovich, we have a Minister of Agriculture who can really argue about the environment and agriculture, which above all speaks clear words and can give people an orientation according to the objectives of his policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is important for us as farmers, which is important for farmers, for young farmers, and this is important for consumers. We all agree on one thing. I've heard you all talk over and over again. Everyone says agriculture in Austria is doing great things. Those who can look a little beyond the borders and compare Europe know that we do above average, deliver very good quality with family farms, maintain landscape, keep drinking water available everywhere, keep avalanches, maintain the forest, ensure energy. We can do all of this, we know, and people in our country rely on it. Food quality is high. We know that too. We have the organic farmers. It's estimated. We know that too. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Now we just need a good agricultural policy!]] Yes, people, all of this is not a coincidence, because politics makes them somewhere else. And they speak well throughout Europe. It is only really happening to us in Austria. And that's why what's happened so far can't be so wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore strongly advise you to rely on the expertise of those people who can. [[Abg. Huber: The farmer's association might be possible?]] These are people like our Federal Minister Berlakovich, these are people like our Elisabeth Köstinger, who obviously put things in the right direction in the European Parliament, and that is – thank you for the suggestion – the Austrian Farmers' Federation, which works very closely and picks up the farmers where they stand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You yourself do not seem to belong to this because you have forgotten to mention yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is quite clear: We consume the work of farmers daily: either on our plate or by looking forward to their services in the countryside. The point is: Do you want to continue? Will we have to fight in Brussels, as it has always been? And the latte that Federal Chancellor Schüssel put last time will be the bar so that we can keep our standard. That is why it is up to the last night that we in Brussels ensure with full force what we can do. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: How do we continue? What are your demands?]] Only then will the question be asked what Austria really wants in 2020. We will then ask whether we want to be satisfied with what anyone in Brussels has granted us. If we want what we want and appreciate ourselves, then we will have to define for ourselves what it costs and what it is worth for us in Austria. Because we know what we can do, we farmers will also be proud to deliver it. And something else: Congratulations to our Federal Minister! Now, in Brussels, the decision has actually been taken that the freedom of genetic engineering should become national law. This is an example of the fact that it is obviously right to decide for yourself what you want. This applies in the field, and this will also apply to the future of agriculture as a whole. That's why, ladies and gentlemen: Don't be afraid, we'll judge it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21306	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21328	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Also on the common agricultural policy after 2013: Our Federal Government makes it clear in the 2008 government programme that the Federal Government is committed to favouring the farmers of agricultural and forestry areas when receiving direct payments. I think that this principle is important. In the end, however, this means that there must certainly be a redeployment of agricultural funds so that in the future there is more justice in the distribution of grants. We need to ensure more transparency, we need to provide more information, and then we will surely be more just in terms of support policy. Another comment: It is not uninteresting that the distribution of funding should take more account of labour difficulties, labour costs and future labour use. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to discuss and establish financial ceilings for funding. In my opinion, it is not all right if 80 percent of the total funding in our Republic receives only 20 percent of the farms. I think there is a need for reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The situation of agriculture is actually not as rosy as some try to present it here again and again. In recent years alone, there has been a 14 per cent reduction, 14 per cent fewer colleagues in agriculture and forestry. Over the last ten years, 30 000 farmers have closed the farm. These are three farms a day. Therefore, I think that reforms are quite, very important, not only in support of agriculture and forestry, but in order to strengthen the whole rural area – with the aim of getting more jobs in rural areas, with a view to making rural areas more attractive to the whole population. [[Abg. Eßl: This is the task of regional policy!]] This means, for example, better childcare facilities for children. This ultimately means more educational institutions for all. [[Abg. Eßl: This is the task of regional policy!]] This means that rural farms settle. It has been said that – we agree – it is an intact environment, a healthy situation in the countryside too. However, it is also about increasing public transport in rural areas. Clearly, we continue to work together to ensure that the food is good, that the food is free from genetic engineering, that the food has the highest quality. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] This debate has been followed by a colleague. He called me a few minutes ago. It's a colleague from the Federal Army who said: Please tell colleagues that if we are already discussing healthy food in Austria, it would also be a task to ensure that we also buy the food we need in Austria from the German army in Austria. The whole milk for the Federal Army in Upper Austria, for all the barracks and the whole butter for all the Upper Austrian barracks is purchased by the BBG, for which the Minister of Defence is not responsible, but by the Minister of Economic Affairs, not in Austria, but in the Federal Republic of Germany. Minister, I think there would be a need for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21416	The next speaker was Mr Linder. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21439	Mr President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! The survey on agriculture was on and on, for itself, a very nice event. However, we have not heard many really new statements. It was very interesting to listen to Prof. Borchardt, who spoke very openly. I also recall the statements made by Mr Köstinger, who was already very careful about the EU's agricultural budget. She has already formulated very carefully: We will try to keep the funding money the same, and otherwise we will have to look very carefully in Austria that the distribution goes justly over the stage. At the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the Minister said: Well, it is heard of cuts of 10 to 15 percent, so that the agricultural budget will only account for 30 percent of the total EU budget; it is not yet fixed, but the danger exists. And by that, dear Fritz Grillitsch, there is uncertainty. Many small farmers no longer know what will come after 2013. Many small farmers are already saying: I'll stop! This is the result of this – and I am glad that the colleagues from SPÖ are more and more involved – that we need either upper limits or that we really have to keep the funding very degressive so that it is possible to guarantee at least for the smaller farmers, for the lower income levels, that the support remains true. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second thing I keep highlighting is the bureaucracy. I told you last time in the committee that in our valley alone, two veterinarians have stopped as meat viewers, because they have said that they no longer want to participate in all this bureaucracy; that is no longer useful. The Federal Minister himself said that a large part of this bureaucracy was made home by us in Austria. We now know: Big litters are not successful! As far as small steps are concerned: My colleague, Mr Eßl, it would be nice if we were to go a little further in the alpine pastures, so that we don't have to calculate the pastures anymore, but just as you say, to count on the CFP. This will be a huge step forward. To sum up, however, I believe that we do not need to be afraid of agriculture, because Mr Fritz Grillitschhat said: We do not like this by Brussels; we will protest against it. Dear Fritz Grillitsch, I'm glad you're gonna get on the table in Brussels. We can be calm. Nothing will happen. You'll fight for us outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21507	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21528	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schopf has listed a whole range of tasks that should be taken over in the future. Members of the SPÖ always tend to do so. Mr President, all that you have listed is not a matter of agrarian policy, but we have regional policy in Europe, for which we in Austria have social policy and many other policies that regulate it. The agricultural policy, the agricultural policy, is intended to ensure efficient, strong farms so that we can satisfy the needs of the population, namely to maintain healthy food in sufficient quantity, to ensure security of supply and a beautiful landscape. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have taken from this survey what Mr Borchardt of the EU Commission has said. That actually makes it possible to implement all that we want and imagine. The second thing is, of course, financing, and a financing proposal is also available. Mrs. Schönpass, no one underlies the Chancellor that he wants to cut off from home, but: Let us give him the commission to come home with the same amount of money as in the last period. €3.9 billion for the coming period! If it comes with it, then we are satisfied and then we can also manage reasonably. I also wish myself a few other things, for example, that not too much is complicated. Mr Linder said: Simplifications as regards the feeding surface detection in the alpine area. As far as greening is concerned, I am absolutely opposed to an absolute ban on land-based farmers. This cannot be the case and is also a distortion of competition. We need to talk about it. Then we need a single farm premium throughout Austria, a strong environmental programme, the possibility of promoting investment and effective support for farmers in the Alpine and disadvantaged areas. If we've always been talking about promotions, Let us define together the benefits we expect from the farmers, and then say what we pay for these benefits! And then we give this part away from the discretionary area in the budget and into the legally binding conditions!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21574	As the next speaker, Mr Prince, I would like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21595	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! European agriculture and therefore also Austrian agriculture is facing a challenging time. The question is where agriculture will develop from 2014. The opposites could not actually be greater. On the one hand, industrialized farming with mass animal husbandry and on the other hand, organic farming with farmed family farms, just as we maintain them in Austria. Consumers naturally prefer the Austrian way: High quality products produced in sufficient quantity and with high environmental, hygiene and animal protection standards – at a affordable price. However, the desired benefits are not reflected in the producer prices. This is where the common agricultural policy intervenes, namely the remuneration of the services provided to the public by farmers, both in the first and second pillars. The impact of these programmes is also shown by a study by WIFO, which clearly demonstrates that rural areas can keep pace with urban areas. This is also a result of successful agricultural policy. It is very skeptical to look at the first draft of the EU budget, which provides for cuts in the common agricultural policy. In times of strained budgets, it is difficult to keep financial resources. However, a number of rounds of negotiations are still needed to reduce these relatively much in the area of rural development, which is important for Austria. And agricultural funds are not social programmes. Social programmes are well withdrawn in social policy. For the future, there will be many challenges for agriculture – if you can believe studies by FAO and OECD – namely safeguarding food for the growing world population. European agriculture is well aware of this important task and challenge for the future. What we need, however, is also a common agricultural policy, which is equipped with the appropriate financial resources in the future. Another personal comment on the speech by Gerhard Huber To what you've given here to this subject area of yours would be my request to you to deal with the one-time professional of agriculture. What you have done best here is, in part, massively damaging to the rural population outside, namely from the content. [[Abg. Huber: It is the purest truth!]] I really ask you to think about it. I don't know who wrote this, but these statements are very worrying. [[Abg. Huber: But true!]] Sometimes, Gerhard Huber, I have the impression that the most dangerous are those who earn on agriculture but do not work in agriculture and have to draw their income accordingly. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Schopf and Mr Linder on his work.]] And, Gerhard, a little saying to the conclusion: If the trade is still so small, it is obviously to register more than work.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21666	Mr Mayer spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21687	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, I would like to make a summary and say: The survey has demonstrated very well what the agricultural policy will be for after 2013 in Europe: for sustainable food production, for sustainable management and for more climate protection in the agricultural policy. The Austrian farmers certainly have a pioneering role there. We know that in Austrian agriculture we probably have one of the strictest animal welfare conditions compared to neighbouring countries. The Austrian farmers are world champions with regard to the bio share. We have successfully enforced GMO freedom in cultivation, thanks to our successful Minister for the Environment and Agriculture Niki Berlakovich, who is looking for the same at European level as regards commitment in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... by the European Parliament!]] And: The Austrian dairy industry has implemented and successfully implemented GMO-free feeding throughout the world. But all these additional benefits that our farmers already fulfill are unfortunately not always paid off from the market. That is why we need compensation in this area. If one hears here that the budget for the common agricultural policy is to be reduced, then the problem is actually only heightened. I can only say: More conditions and less income for our farmers, which – I believe we all agree – cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Not the end of the speech!]] Austrian agriculture has the highest share of young farmers. I'm the living proof of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is not least due to the fact that we have a branch premium, a master bonus that supports the professional training of young farmers. But in the future too, we need planning security in this area, which we have had in the past, namely in the market organisation premiums, in the environmental programmes, as well as in the protection of animals. In the pig sector, we have this sad debate about the piglets' basket. In doing so, you can see: The Farmers' Federation is committed to the small-structured piglets production in Austria. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] I wonder, Where are the others? Where's a here? Mr Huber from BZÖ? Where are the greens when it comes to the support of pig farmers? Where is the SPÖ, where is the FPÖ on this subject? This is not only bad, but very, very sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21755	Mr Jannach has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21777	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! This is about the agricultural survey, which was really very, very instructive – but not very rich in what is going on in the financial field. Mr Grillitsch has come out and has said that cuts of 6.5 percent are expected. Other colleagues have also brought the financial report or the financial proposal. I need to tell you: They are not up-to-date, because today in the “curer” – everyone has got it – EU Commissioner Hahn is doing the best to ensure that there are no reductions in bio- and mining promotions. [[The speaker keeps the edition of the “Kurier” up to date.]] So it would be right to vote there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If Hahn does, that's not a problem. But I'm trying to talk about it honestly and say whether it's being shortened or not. The Commissioner says that there is no reduction. What you are spreading here is uncertainty among the farmers; for, according to the Commissioner, it is not shortened, and I think he will know it; he has also written his doctoral thesis so successfully. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[new calls to the ÖVP]] What we are talking about in the agricultural survey is to get it to the point: We want distribution justice. This has already been addressed by SPÖ and by all parties, unfortunately not yet by ÖVP-side. The current system is not fair! The big ones get a lot and the little ones get little up to nothing. Furthermore, we finally want to introduce a ceiling on funding. It can't be that some larger businesses get hundreds of thousands of euros of funding, so that there's a clear fixed-cost degression there, and the small farms are so to speak fed with a bedding! In addition: Even if the agricultural budgets are cut short, I believe that they should be cut short in areas which do not concern the active farmers. We should cut back on the Chambers, the AMA, the state governments, because they get all the money from the agricultural budget. We should also cut back on the commercial and industrial enterprises, which also receive funds from the agricultural budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now a small personal note on the agricultural survey: This was really very interesting. There were more than 100 professionals and experts there. From all ministries there were people here, also from the Chamber of Workers, from the Trade Union Confederation, from the Chambers of Agriculture and from the parties. What has deeply disappointed me personally and many who have participated in it is that the Minister has not found it worth the effort to stay here and attend the agricultural survey all day long. I particularly consider this to be not particularly polite to Professor Borchardt, who was specifically invited by you from Brussels. I asked myself what is so important that the Minister of Agriculture is weakening or abandoning this meeting, this agricultural survey, which concerns the future of our farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, you will not believe it: It was that means. [[The speaker holds up a plastic bottle of dishwasher.]] [[Abg. Haberzetl: Viagra?]] - No, it's not Viagra. This is the dishwasher concentrate of Splendid nature of Spar. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Schleichwerb!]] – This is not a sluggish advertising, because it is publicly confirmed by the Ministry in a press release. This means has caused the Federal Minister to weaken the agricultural survey, more precisely an award by the company Spar with the eco-label! I asked myself: Is it the first thing to do to highlight such a healthy, good product? Is that such a historic day? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Do you know how many products there are in this quality mark? 1 520! This is the 1 521st product that this quality mark gets; and for that, and for a picture in the newspaper, Minister Berlakovich blackens the agricultural survey! [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date]] That is more than disappointing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you something about the company Spar: I'm going to show you what this company is selling for. [[The speaker keeps a reproduction of an advertising poster of the said supermarket chain up to date.]] This is what the company Spar advertises – for Sunday work: “Buy it when you go to the church.” Mr. Federal Minister Berlakovich, you are representatives of a Christian-social party, but you cannot distinguish products from companies that are so injuring religious feelings, so discriminatory to women and for Sunday work! That's a real disappointment!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21911	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of the Stenographical Protocol of the parliamentary survey on “Joint Agricultural Policy after 2013 – Opportunities and Challenges for Austria”, III-239 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[19:19:58]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on amendments 1460/A(E) by Mr Fritz Grillitsch, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Kurt Gaßner, Harald Jannach, Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, Gerhard Huber, colleagues on measures against speculation with agricultural raw materials and 1306/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on measures against speculation with agricultural raw materials (1283 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e21981	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Grillitsch has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22008	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Jannach, very briefly replicating: With polemics alone, we will not achieve anything for the farmers. [[Abg. Jannach: A weak statement for a farmer's representative!]] This also shows the difference between the way you make politics and the way we make policy for farmers – with responsibility. [[Abg. Jannach keeps the previously mentioned poster of a trading chain up to date.]] [[Abg. Grosz: You don't do it!]] I can tell you an example, colleague Jannach. In 1995, when joining the EU, the FPÖ advised farmers not to participate in the programmes because, as it was said, there was no money anyway. [[Abg. Grosz: Here you have betrayed the farmers for the first time!]] This is FPÖ policy for farmers! There have actually been some farmers in Carinthia who have not participated in the programmes – with the effect that they were then excluded for five years because no entry was possible anymore. This is FPÖ policy, that is irrational policy! And that distinguishes us from you, my dear colleague! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] That was so, you can remember exactly. You were terribly embarrassed, because since 1995, 16 years since EU accession, whether you want to have it or not, there have been reliable, timely compensation payments for farmers every year, which are urgently needed! That's ÖVP policy, that's Farmers' Federal Policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now on the real issue. I am pleased that we have made a five-party request in the Committee on Agriculture, which deals with a very important issue, namely speculation with agricultural raw materials. We all know there's a market law that says: Supply and demand regulate the price. But in recent years there have been more and more speculators and financial investors for which agricultural raw materials have become increasingly attractive. It is therefore important that we consider how we can prevent food price fluctuations through such transactions. Such excessive speculations lead to massive price fluctuations and not only harm Austrian and European farmers, but also the food in poorer countries; and especially the daily bread must not fall victim to the hunger of the financially greedy speculators, but should really remain quiet for all people even in poorer countries! [[Abg. Grosz:... banking lobby, is that of the ÖVP? Raiffeisen!]] [[Abg. Huber: Volksbank!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Then you should talk to the Conrad! - Chef speculant!]] Uncontrolled speculation, Mr Grosz, is based on short-term profits and does not use the consumer or sustainable organic farming. That is why our model of organic and socially compatible agriculture is the right one; that gives security. In order to limit the uncontrolled speculation on food, there must be an orderly framework, ladies and gentlemen. This market with these speculations needs clear rules of play. Therefore, I am glad that we can agree with this five-party request to counteract these speculations by regulating the improvement of regulation and transparency of the financial and commodity markets accordingly, as well as by establishing an international regulatory body or by taxation of speculation with agricultural raw materials with a European or international financial transaction tax. I am very glad that we were able to agree on this issue in the Committee and that we were able to make this request together.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22132	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22153	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too am glad that we have decided on this five-party proposal on this important issue, on this package of measures against speculations with agricultural raw materials in the Committee and will also decide today. I am also convinced that this will strengthen Mr. Minister's commitment at European level to measures against speculation. The aim is to implement measures at European and international level against these speculations, which, as we have already heard from Mr Grillitsch, are partly responsible for high food prices, but also for famine. In order to get a picture of what we are talking about, I would like to tell you that in April 2011, for example, the world market prices for food have reached a century-high. The price index of the FAO was 236 points. This is the highest value since 1990, since this price index has been calculated for the first time. This is also a higher value than in 2008, from which we all have in mind the pictures of famine. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In addition to the speculations, natural disasters are of course also responsible for high prices, but also the growing demand for food and energy plants as well as a so-called competition for use in the cultivation of cereals – first as food, second as feed, third as agricultural fuel. [[Abg. Huber: And the speculators!]] Of course, that is true, Mr President, the speculations are also responsible. Especially in the last five years, it has been massive that financial investors are increasingly speculating into the markets, constantly raising prices with demand. On the one hand, price bubbles and bottlenecks arise, on the other hand, food for the population is no longer manageable, especially for the population in developing countries. Also a number: The FAO estimates that in the years 2007 to 2009 the price is 15 percent higher than it should be – and this, of course, ensures this permanent imbalance in the world and the famines I have mentioned. It wouldn't have to be if there were regulations. This would not have to be if one were to adopt measures against speculation and, above all, if investors were to pursue other goals. It is, however, the case that at the heart of these transactions – which really has to be broken on the tongue – is the only and only bet for the right prediction of prices! It's really a horrific thing! For this, hunger, much need and poverty are being purchased. I mean, on the other hand, we all have to act together! Ladies and gentlemen, one more thought, because it makes a lot of thoughtful thinking: These famines, which kill millions of people every year, would not have to be; for it is currently producing more food than the world’s population needs. Current food production could feed around 12 billion people worldwide. Nevertheless, hunger in the world has increased in the last ten years. Every five seconds a child dies! 850 million people in the world are undernourished! Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore really necessary and necessary to ensure that banks and speculators refrain from any action that violates the human right to food. We are all required to put man before profit!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22193	The next speaker was Mr Jannach. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22214	Mr President. Federal Minister! We are discussing the proposal against speculation with agricultural raw materials. This is a unanimous matter. We are, of course, involved in this request. I think, however, that we need to make massive efforts to counter this speculation. This request alone will not be. Beautiful statements here in the National Council will not be enough to encourage financial undertakings, funds and speculators in this area to be diverted. I think it's a very, very complicated and difficult matter. This is also seen in the financial transaction tax. First of all, we should define the financial products covered by the term speculation of agricultural raw materials. Then one would have to find out the associated companies, make management renowned; and then one would have to create a legal framework that would prevent such speculations, international and not only in Europe or even in Austria. It is likely that this will be done with a Europe-wide uniform tax on speculations with agricultural raw materials and speculations with such products. It's high time we did something, because the effects of these speculations are actually fatal: Consumers need to pay more for their products, farmers get less, and the tension between them increasingly eliminate these agricultural raw material speculators. I would also like to point out another worrying development that I have now encountered. It not only begins to speculate more strongly on agricultural raw materials, but also on speculation with land. There are several companies, such as AgroEnergy – for those who want to look at it on the Internet – that invest 100 million € as funds in East Germany, or the company Greenland Management GmbH, which invests 150 million € in Bulgaria and Romania. The effects of such developments are really serious: This promotes industrial agriculture to a great extent and makes life and food sovereignty very difficult for the individual countries. These dangers, including those of land speculation, should not be underestimated and should already be taken effective measures to prevent such speculations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22251	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22272	Ladies and gentlemen! This joint five-party proposal has been made on the basis of a green initiative. I am pleased that, in a good discussion, we were able to really improve our proposal on a number of points, namely with regard to the scope and feasibility of the proposal. That is why I would like to start very specifically with the measures contained in this joint motion. On the one hand, it is a question of calling for and calling for a truly European or international financial transaction tax once again, also against speculations in the agricultural raw materials sector. I think that we have now seen this in the budget proposals – that was our discussion before – there was a measure within the framework of the European agricultural policy, where, as in the context of this proposal, we are jointly convinced to continue. What is also important from my point of view was to ensure food sovereignty, sustainable food supply systems and good food quality. What does food sovereignty mean? – This is a term that is, of course, in the discussion process and is developing further in the discourse. But above all, he also believes that people can participate in political, democratic and co-decision on their nutrition possibilities and production possibilities. If this is only more determined on stock exchanges and if this is left only more speculators, what happens to food, then the world agricultural system is clearly developing in the wrong direction. We have Millennium Goals: By 2015 the halve of hunger. This is one of the world's key Millennium Goals, and we only achieve this if we work against speculation and if we make a good international agricultural policy that supports small farmers' agriculture, as proposed in the World Agricultural Report. On this occasion I would like to remind you of one thing: The largest share of the hungry, this nearly a billion people, is in Asia, and that in India. India as an industrialized emerging country, which has to be considered, has suffered a very, very poor agricultural policy. It has put its small farmers so to speak. There thousands of people, even millions of people, have lost their jobs, many of them have really been driven into the abyss by false strategies – and at the same time, India is one of the exporting countries today. This has been achieved with the so-called Green Revolution, which only the agricultural industries, which have used only the fertiliser industry and the pesticides lobby, but not agricultural agriculture, and which has not contributed to the fight against hunger in India. That's how it hangs. And now the hedge funds are coming, and what are they doing? Why do they even come? That may be the first question. They come because the real estate bubble is burst and one is in panic, how this free capital can be secured where it can be created. And the analysts say, of course, in the raw materials sector. If you look into the portfolio of a raw material fund today and look at the distribution, you will find that 20 to 30 percent of these raw material funds are equipped with agricultural goods. And here, too, the agricultural banks, the Raiffeisen banks, would be required. If we are working together against agricultural raw material speculation, we should also ensure transparency in this area, reject such products, warn about such products and also inform the public about them. This would, I believe, be an important impulse which could come from the economy and from the banking sector if we jointly set up such an initiative here. For example, with an English hedge fund, he was tried to intervene in the daily business, he bought up 7 percent of the world’s cocoa harvest, which in addition led to a massive price increase in the cocoa sector. Now you can say, okay, cocoa is a luxury product, but the results of these speculations are that if, through these speculative financial instruments and derivatives, there is a potential scarcity on the market, the prices go massively up, but then also massively back down again. This does not do the farmers well, let alone the consumers and above all not the developing countries. Realistic is: Agricultural prices will have to be put on, because they have to reflect the real costs. This is due to the oil price, which is related to the energy price, but this must be broken down by good accompanying measures and, above all, by more regulation of the financial markets, as our common request here calls for. I believe that we should also bring this into the agricultural policy debate at an hour's notice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22343	The next speaker was Mr Huber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22364	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! If you tell the truth here in the high house, then the ÖVP becomes very, very nervous. The colleague, Prince, starts to become nervous, the Minister of State tells the untruth, he tells fairy tales here. [[Abg. Grill: Well, hello!]] He tells us that we are free of genetic engineering in Austria, praises our agriculture. The fact is, every year we import 600 000 tons of genetically contaminated soya into Austria. This is fed to all our animals. And what does the ÖVP do? - It's all right. The consumer is totally insecure, he will be lying and will not know that he is taking in genetically contaminated foods. [[Abg. Grosz: That's it!]] The ÖVP is getting nervous just because we're telling the truth. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But please, the truth is also: We are no longer autark in Austria. We import 2 million pigs annually, we import 100 000 cattle annually. This is all a merit of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Grosz: And cheese in great style!]] But now to the five-party proposal. This five-party proposal is a first step, but one thing is clear: that the ÖVP is the speculant party, because a Mr. Konrad, a Mr. Treichl, is doing the speculations. ==References== In June 2011, the Austrian Volksbank issued a product called “Agrar Grund Garant”. The Volksbank guarantees profits of 160 percent if you invest there! By the way, Guarantee is a product of the Raiffeisen group – so that you can see how it interacts – it has a term of five years, and it is guaranteed a profit of 160 percent. I'd like to give it to you for reading. And there you can actually see how wrong politics is. [[Abg. Grosz: This is Raiffeisen policy!]] We have broken 30 percent of our agricultural land, and we are paying millions of support for these breaks. Instead of creating incentives to produce people again so that the market price goes down, we pay millions of incentives and thus promote speculation. That must finally be stopped!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22447	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22468	Mr President. High house! Mr Huber, your statements are entertaining to some extent, and if you draw the apocalypse here, this is your thing. But that you put me here that I don't tell the truth, I reject it categorically! That is not the case! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Huber: Yes, it is!]] You can spread your theories here, but don't give me anything! I'm going to reject that because it's not. The fact is that Austria is free from genetic engineering, and we want to remain. [[Abg. Huber: Yes, in cultivation already, but we import contaminated products!]] [[Abg. Grosz: We import, Minister!]] And I didn't say anything else. For this reason, in June 2009, I also launched the initiative on self-determination, which the Union is now taking over. [[Abg. Huber: Austria is not free of genetic engineering!]] And there's nothing else about it. The Austrians don't want to do that, either, and we don't want to do that and we're going through this path consistently, no matter what you're saying here. [[Abg. Huber: How do consumers understand this?]] For speculation. The situation is such that agricultural commodity markets are increasingly linked to energy markets. That was not the case in the past, but is becoming more and more intense now. This means that, if prices on energy markets rise, prices on agricultural raw materials markets are often included in recent times. This leads to enormous price increases, but this does not automatically mean that the farmer gets more for his basic product, because it is a big span between them. It deserves the so-called speculators or investors. The point is that we need to differentiate in the discussion. We need to see that business and futures are an important contribution to stabilizing agricultural prices – not only in overseas countries, also in Europe, but also in Austria, in order to stabilise prices in order to avoid extreme fluctuations – but what needs to be made more transparent and controlled are, for example, the transactions that run over the Internet, so-called over-the-counter trades, which happen outside the exchanges, where the contracts are not limited and where the contracts are not transparent. There are then, in part, distortions that are of no interest to anyone, because if agricultural prices are rising on world markets, this means that people in developing countries, for example, have a food problem. As much as the farmers may be happy with us when prices rise, it is so bad if they fall into the groundless. It is therefore an objective of the agricultural policy that price fluctuations, which always exist, be it through different harvests, whether through different market situations, are somewhat limited in a band. It is therefore important that we address this matter. I did that. When the OECD met again after twelve years in the previous year, we discussed this problem of speculation and volatility in agricultural prices. Interestingly, both OECD and FAO, the World Food Organization, said that speculation is not a problem. In the meantime, many see this as different, and it has been important that France has launched an initiative within the G20 to address this issue of volatility of agricultural raw materials, because it is an important problem for Europe, and especially for developing countries, so that people there have a balanced diet. The debate on the G20 has shown how difficult and controversial the subject is, because France has not been able to put itself there as we wanted. Many countries there have prevented stricter speculation controls, especially in the Asian region. For the first time, an action plan has been drawn up on the issue of the G20 being concerned with controlling and monitoring agricultural financial markets. This is a first important step, but we are not yet at the end of the journey. Here we need more control and transparency in the interests of people, in the interests of farmers in the developing countries, but also here in Europe. In conclusion: In this sense, the introduction of a financial transaction tax is very important. Furthermore, it is also part of the EU financial framework, where the EU says for the first time that there should also be European Union own resources under a financial transaction tax or VAT revenue source. All this has to be negotiated. At any rate, we acknowledge that a financial transaction tax makes sense as an additional source of revenue for the European Union, but also so that agricultural raw material prices and thus food are moving in a reasonable price band so that people can also afford food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22564	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22585	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Huber speculates on voters with his partly confused statements, but that, I believe, will not work completely. I believe that you should inform your colleague Grosz, who will give you the true value of the peasantry within the BZO if he says that it would actually be enough if six Members were sitting in Parliament as a whole, that is more than that. This is the value that the BZÖ recognizes to the peasantry! But let's stay with the speculations. In recent years we have experienced a lot of speculation. Financial markets have caused severe economic effects, and of course even more dramatic could be the effects of uncontrolled speculation in the food sector, because they have a double effect. On the one hand, they harm consumers: They endanger security of supply – which has a negative impact on consumers, but also on producers accordingly. We have seen these strong price fluctuations, which are caused by them, in recent times, especially in the milk sector: In the first half of 2008, there was a strong high, then the dramatic crash. I am also concerned that financial investors were at work, which controlled markets with accounts of goods that may not have been really on the market. In this situation, I believe that this motion for a resolution is the right one to seek rules on how to prevent it. We also have to say that these extreme price fluctuations may also have adverse effects on farmers' farms, on farmers' families. And we can't let that happen. We need farmers and farmers. We need their services, which are supposed to have a very important role in Austria with food supply and living space. That is why, I believe, it is right and important for us to agree to this motion for a resolution accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22624	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22646	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already made clear the importance of this request, and I can only say thank you: In this way we can make a common agricultural policy by putting together and improving a good proposal that is already in place and then taking a joint decision. However, in the case of agricultural raw materials, there are several reasons why they are becoming more expensive, and this has also been demonstrated in recent years. On the other hand, this is the growing world population, and, as the Federal Minister said, energy markets are also increasingly interfering. This increased use of agricultural land for the production of bioenergy and biofuels is, of course, a double mill. If food is heated, food is converted into fuel, then this is missing on the other side of the food market. This problem should be addressed in the future. As the speculators are now slaughtering, that has already been said quite clearly. If a German bank acts as one of the world's largest sugar dealers and, of course, does not deal with sugar, but buys sugar papers and these for so long, until everyone else buys until the price is high, and then the whole thing goes away again, I wonder, of course, how a market should work. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is nice to hear when the Federal Minister says that we urgently need the financial transaction tax. It wasn't always like that. Not too long ago, this term had been rather smiled, and when our Federal Chancellor pointed out it very clearly in Brussels, one smiled there too. Now you've come to think that's very, very important, and that's good. If we are already in the Federal Chancellor's office, a word to Mr Grillitsch, to the President of the Federal Farmers' Party, who is always saying that Faymann has to negotiate well so that the farmers do not lack any money. I have the suspicion, Mr Grillitsch and dear farmer bandits, that you have already given up the hope that it will remain equal or more, for, ladies and gentlemen, earlier the European Union included 15 members, now there are 27 members, and the money will no longer be, but rather less. Now I have a very special question. The Minister for Finance says that she no longer wants to pay for Brussels under any circumstances. Well, she's right, there I am on her side, just: If all countries say they don't pay anymore, how should farmers in Austria get more money or continue to get the same amount? And then it is not the German Chancellor's fault that negotiates there, but then the circumstances are quite different. But I think you've already given up the hope that it will stay that way. It is therefore necessary to think about the fair distribution of funding in Austria so that we can maintain our small farmers in order to maintain the rural structure, to preserve the rural areas, because I think Commissioner Gio Hahn has already seen this quite properly when he says today in the "Kurier", for the miners and for the organic farmers there is equal amount of money. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens]] He is responsible for the regions, and if he is working there, I am good things, but I believe that it is not without cuts at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22708	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the resolution on measures against speculation with agricultural raw materials annexed to the Committee's report 1283 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 177.) [[19:50:50]] 14. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 1413/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on measures to protect and promote organic plant breeding (1284 d.b.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 1411/A(E) by Mr Gerhard Huber, colleagues on the conservation of seed sovereignty (1285 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22775	We now come to points 14 and 15 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Doppler has spoken. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22802	High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Seed is the basis of our diet. We reject genetic engineering in agriculture from the liberals, especially the green genetic engineering. Large corporations determine which seed is on the market – and that can't be it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] About ten companies control almost 70 percent of the seed market, and their greed for profit is not yet over. Also the business, ladies and gentlemen, with plant sprays flourishes more than ever; revenue gains in record height. Further investigations on harmfulness have been postponed by the EU until 2015 although it is known – as evidenced by various studies – that the use of herbicides can lead to malformations in animals, not to mention damage to the environment at all. If not, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22838	Next, Mr Mayer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22860	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! On the two requests: In fact, the Seed Act already regulates very precisely that every farmer may, of course, reuse his seed and even exchange with his neighbours up to a certain amount. The EU Biopatent Directive also makes clear: Plant varieties and animal breeds are not patentable. The exception is where genetic engineering changes have been made. For Austria it is quite clear, we have always rejected this, and this does not really matter in our agricultural practice. The biodiversity and variety of varieties in Austria regarding there are great actions on the part of the AGES, and where this is given, it is supported by the Ministry. However, I would like to take the opportunity to take advantage of the fact that, especially in Austria, we have more than 150 cooperatively organized producer communities in animal farming and in the preparation of seeds, which guarantee that high quality seed and animal breeding material can be offered to our farmers in great variety, that production is also manageable and economical, that there is no dependence on large groups – we are truly unique on the road in Austria – and the value added – that is very important – in the field of seeds and in the animal farming also remains with the farmers. I can say thank you to all the actors in these agricultural organisations, which are 100 percent in the hands of farmers, and I hope that this will continue to be the case in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22890	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22920	I will explain this to you in a moment, my colleague. I will read from our request – it was found in Graz from 25 to 27. A European initiative on 5 March 2010 was launched on 5 March 2010. European Seeds Meeting, and the Graz Declaration on Freedom for Variety, called for the following: “Every man has the right to be free from hunger and to feed himself appropriately. This human right also includes access to productive resources, especially seeds. Food sovereignty can only be achieved in the long term through a culturally rich organic cultivation of food based on locally adapted varieties and the community care and development of this diversity.” – Quotes. The follow-up to this request for this Graz Declaration is as follows: We advocate the rights of farmers to obtain, grow and pass on seed from their own crops. If you say, Mr Mayer, that would be the case now, then I must tell you that this is a little more complex, without here referring to a long debate on plant breeding and the international arrangements of the UPOV Convention. But I just want to say one thing: In Austria, it is so far so that we, in the agricultural sector, continue to use seeds in reproduction and exchange and trade between farmers. There were massive licensing processes in Germany, and in Austria it is only possible because we still have a strong agricultural seed. That's right, you mentioned that correctly. Why? – Because the cooperatives are there the farmers are members, and no stock companies. Thank God!, I say, otherwise we will end up in “Monsanto” and in the acquisition of all seed companies by the chemical industry in the global markets. It is true today that “Shell” is one of the largest owners of barley seed; there we arrived. These little breeders – and that was the problem – who exchanged between each other, these are associations such as “Arche Noah” and others, were concerned that the new European rules of this exchange between farmers could no longer be possible. I would like to thank the Minister, especially his ministry, for having raised these concerns and for being able to solve this question. It has been resolved, and therefore I do not understand why you reject this request, colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP. You didn't justify that. Mr Mayer, I do not understand. Now to a point that is very close to my heart and that hopefully many of us are in the house at heart. If you want to continue this ecological plant breeding and maintain biodiversity, we need bees. The bees are those useful insects that are essential for our cultural landscape and remain indispensable and therefore have to be protected particularly in order to preserve this biodiversity. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is an absolute necessity if we seriously believe it with an ecological orientation of agricultural policy, with an ecological implementation of objectives which you have just called for: biodiversity, world champions in organic farming, all these things. If we take them seriously, we must finally help this proposal to break through. This is what I am pleading for here in Parliament today, because it has already logically made our neighbours. Slovenia has declared this ban, Germany, Italy, even France. And if these states are pronouncing the ban and we also have plausible results of our research project MELISSA, which, just by the way, is co-financed even by the chemical industry, then we should finally also have the consequences. If you, Minister, do not allow this ban to be imposed, then we here in the House are strong enough to make this decision. I would like to ask the Members, especially those of the SPÖ, who have always put themselves very clearly on this side, to give themselves a back to this request so that we can finally reach the necessary majority in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e22996	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23057	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23079	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For millenniums – yes, for millenniums! – our farmers breed the seeds. They keep it up, they continue to develop it. But by industry and by the global concentration of seed companies, from pure greed of profit, farmers are now threatened to lose it. Seed is the basis of our diet. The farmer can no longer grow, he depends, the entire population depends, whole states become dependent. You have to let that break on your tongue. That's why, I think, it's important to say: If we promote biodiversity, we promote the variety of varieties and, above all, we support the conservationists of seeds! We need organic seed, we really need solid seed, and we don't need any dependence on any corporations! This is quite easy to understand, and I think we should stand up without exception for a ban on patents on seeds and for a ban on patents on animals. If you look at the example USA, then everyone needs to get bad. We are forcing a new, modern agricultural policy, which, instead of energy-intensive large farms, ensures our small rural structure, which demands and promotes versatile and ecologically sustainable farms! The farmers must finally be freed from this policy, which comes from anywhere. We must free and transport farmers! For it is a human right that every human being should feed freely can be that every person can choose for himself where and from which cultural property the seed comes. We must not become dependent on international corporations! Today, international corporations around the world already have 70 percent market shares in seeds, i.e. only more than 30 percent of the world's population can choose what it gets on the table. This cannot be Austrian agricultural policy. Get a back there and let's take a step in the right direction!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23127	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23148	Mr President. High house! Clearly, seeding, plant breeding is a central element of the Austrian agricultural policy. We have global concentration processes in the field of seed farming companies, which has already been mentioned, so it is a goal to maintain the widest possible variety of varieties and species, also against concentration processes in the world markets. An Austrian seed growing, an Austrian plant cultivation is a vital interest in the Austrian agricultural policy. In this respect, it has a long tradition that we promote the same. It is with us that the AGES has the competence as a central gene bank administration so that we can secure genetic resources so that we can cope with a loss of biodiversity. Austria is also a pioneer in the cultivation of biosorts. Since 2005, these have been registered in the Austrian list of varieties. It is also part of our agricultural policy that we encourage the protection of old plant species and pet breeds accordingly. If you know the initiative of the enjoyment regions, where it is important not only to have high-performance varieties, but to promote old races – think For example, to the Pinzgauer Rind, to the Carinthian Blondvieh, to the Murbodengrass, to the Carinthias, to the Carinthias, and to the Carinthias, and to the Carinthias, and the list could be continued – you know, this is part of our agricultural policy, too, by financially supporting farmers in the context of the environmental programme, when they use old animal breeds or grow plant varieties that no longer guarantee such maximum yield, but are nevertheless an important contribution to the conservation of biodiversity. This is exactly what we want to ensure in the future common agricultural policy, this diversity in the biological field. What was discussed here was whether farmers, when producing seeds in small quantities, can pass it on. Austria has always interpreted the EU rules to the maximum – as is now the case with the regulation – so that we have ensured that it is legally possible for private seed trading markets to function in order to ensure biodiversity. However, what also needs to be ensured is that the buyer of the seed has the safety to get controlled, guaranteed seed. It would be annoyed if it were to get seeds somewhere in the exchange business and then it would not achieve the desired effect that it expects in yield or, for example, in the design of its garden or agricultural land. Therefore, safety is important for both sides, for the seed producers and for those who buy seed and exchange seed. That's clearly where we need rules of play. In These rules are also to be understood, namely that on the one hand, we want to guarantee the farmers seeds and plant materials in a proper and high quality and on the other hand to ensure the biodiversity of the species.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23191	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Gaßner to speak. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23212	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Pirklhuber, I have to say something about this ‘bee application’ again. Of course, we are absolutely convinced that this poison is banned. Only, you have seen at the first point today, at the first joint request, how to do such a thing. One is involved in party discussions and tries to formulate a request. You know very well, we are in coalition, and we remain in coalition, and therefore we do not vote against our coalition partner either. I call on you to make a request together, and then we will see how it goes on. In addition, the Federal Minister may well rule out the ban.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23247	Mr Riemer spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23268	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, Mr Federal Minister, I have read your things carefully, and your evolutionary thoughts have impressed me very much. I hope you will not be in Brussels as Jesus Christ did, that you will be beaten to the cross, and the farmers will then be the martyrs. I don't want that. I also join with Mr Pirklhuber – in order to make this short: Yes, all that happens to seeds is to be underlined, including the bee story, a painful story and often discussed. Let us make such a request. If everyone is for it anyway, we should do the same. I don't have a problem with that. I only repeat very quickly, because the time for my colleagues insists that you hold on today and say: Yes, draw seed itself, sell it, win it, and use it for a regional diet concept. We know from the diet philosophy that this is very essential. Finally, three areas of the south of Styria, which are also essential: The American Rebbekade brought terrible disaster. Croatia and Slovenia have tried – the Slovenians across the EU – to do something about it. Nothing has been done, and the South Steirs are the fools. Secondly, we also have the Asian lady beetle, who has the peculiarity that he is now going into the grapes and can destroy them, even where the machine is harvested. That is, no more quality of wine, you can destroy the beetles – and this is also true of my colleague Pirklhuber – only radically; there is no other way. Thirdly, the subject of copper: A normal wine maker needs 2 kg of pure copper for a hectare of wine and the Biobauer 4 kg – in the South Styria already due to the weather conditions. Finally, you should also highlight the following problem: The Styrian pumpkin kernel oil is in danger today by our Slovenian neighbours, whom we have promoted and also praised. They really cut this off in the truest sense of the word. I'm asking for help for the South Styria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23316	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1284 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, on the prohibition of the use of insecticide seed. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1285 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[20:10:35]] 16. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1210, e.g._Other Organiser Declaration by the Republic Austria concerning the opposition to the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Convention on the Liberation of Foreign Public Documents of Certification (1346, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23387	We're going to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Cortolezis defeat. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23414	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Austria plans to object to the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Hague Convention on Certification. The Convention shall have the effect of exempting foreign public documents from certification by the Contracting States. In addition to Austria, there are around 100 other Contracting States, including all EU countries. In principle, all States may accede to the Certification Agreement at any time. However, accession will only take effect between Austria and the acceding State if Austria does not object within six months. On the one hand, in the case of the young Kyrgyz Republic, it is to be welcomed that this young Republic in the Central Asian region is taking this step – also in the immediately to the neighbouring states – moving towards democratization, a process that is constantly accompanied by unrest and constitutional changes, but ultimately this process can be seen positively. On the other hand, according to the Austrian Embassy in Astana, the Republic of Kyrgyzstan is not yet ready to meet international requirements regarding document security. It is precisely for this reason that Austria is planning not to agree to the accession. Transparency International also shows that the Kyrgyz Republic is in 164th place of 178 states. It turns out that too many false and falsified documents are in circulation. For this reason, although the young democratic structure is a good thing to wish for, Austria cannot currently agree to accession in the context of its security provisions and therefore also wants to wait for further security developments in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23453	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23490	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, I will try to ensure that I do not overstretch your ears. [[Abg. Scheibner: We like to hear you!]] On the question of the Kyrgyz Convention concerning the certification of documents: Prior speaker Cortolezis-Schlager has already stated that we will make this opposition because we are convinced – and the message in Astana has also informed us – that legal uncertainty is still too great. [[Call the BZÖ:Important!]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... a message!]] But what I would like to stress is that the young Republic of Kyrgyzstan is not only lucky to wish, but that we have already had many very good dialogues with Kyrgyzstan in Austria, that there are many projects taking place in Kyrgyzstan – whether it be the help to combat the great poverty and hunger, whether it be student exchange or foreign scholarships, whether it be the help to bring more security to the country. There are many projects. For example, more than 1,000 uniforms were provided by the Ministry of Justice. On the margins of the UN General Assembly, there was an exchange with Mr Fischer, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, and there was an exchange with the President of Parliament. In my opinion, it is also a good and important feature for trying to make democracy blossom in Central Asia in this country, that for the first time – and this has been the case for a year and two days – a woman was praised as president in a Central Asian country. I too am pleased, and this is also evidence of progress. As she puts it, as she has done so far, one can say that it is very peaceful and very progressive what is happening here. I wish the young Republic of Kyrgyzstan much success, and when it is so far, we will surely be able to take this opposition back. [[Congratulations to Members Scheibner and Dr Bartenstein]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23554	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23587	Mr President. We are also voting in favour of this opposition, as discussed in the Committee, but I must also give the right to Mr Scheibner's interlocutory call, which has just meant: And right now, we are opening a new message – out of economic interests – especially in a country with which we now – legitimately – do not agree with an agreement. I too wish the young Republic of Kyrgyzstan and the new President much success, but that is not the point. To what extent is this country – including in connection with the documents – worthy of trust? For the third time, Austria has objected to a country. The first time it was the Dominican Republic, the second time Mongolia – then there has been no more opposition for a long time. What is amazing or interesting in this context: Where is the foreign policy strategy for rejections or non-rejections? [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I can give examples such as Liberia, Venezuela or last – in 2007 – Moldova, where there was an opposition from Germany, but not from Austria. So somehow no stringency is recognizable when we agree and when not. I would certainly argue that there are comprehensible criteria – which I am currently facing as a whole as a problem in Austrian foreign policy – for why such decisions come about and why not. But we welcome it, of course, because it is known from Transparency International and also overall that there is no document security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23629	Mr Scheibner spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23651	Mr President. We support this request. I am right for my previous speaker to say that we need a clear line in Austrian foreign policy, a definition which is the objective of Austrian foreign policy. The aim cannot be to wait for what the others are for or are not, and to try to swim with somewhere, but should be to pursue clearly the Austrian interests in foreign policy. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – Thank you very much, but you could enforce this in the government, because we open messages exactly in this region, and then we act very critically with the raised index finger. The question is also what interests we have in this region. In other regions, such as the Middle East, where we are very happy to be heard as a voice, we close messages. You'll be vilified to have your own interests. Ladies and gentlemen! We are just waiting for Austrian foreign policy to clearly define its interests, clearly stating how it implements these interests, and then acting consistently – and not even A says and once B, waiting for what the others are doing, trying to see if possible, and not at all – that is quite terrible – to have its own opinion alone, because that must not be at all. It would be asked that Austria, which has no great big power or imperial interests, simply says: In this region we have interests to try there We also support the population and the construction of civil structures, democracy and the rule of law – with all the consequences. That would be interesting: Focus – and not so much on what the EU is doing, what the big others are doing and as little as possible not to notice. It's good and right. This would once be an objective for Austrian foreign policy: to define the interests and to implement them consistently.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23702	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1210 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:20:46]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment 1603/A(E) by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Mag. Christine Muttonen, colleagues on measures to introduce a financial transaction tax (1347, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23751	We now reach the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr. Stummvoll spoke. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23779	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing the financial transaction tax today, it actually has a relatively long history in Parliament. It is not the case, as Mr Gaßner, whom I very much appreciated earlier, on the verge of the agricultural debate, that she has only come in fashion here in the House by Federal Chancellor Faymann. I would remind you that there was a unanimous decision in April 2006 – that was the request of Members Stummvoll, Matznetter, Bucher and Kogler – at a time, dear colleague Gaßner, when the current Chancellor was still Vienna's Town Council. So in the sense of historical truth: ==References== ==References== So let's stick to the facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] We then submitted a further request in December 2008. The Federal Government sent a detailed concept to the European institutions in autumn 2010. The reason that we still have nothing is quite simple: because a small country alone cannot introduce it usefully. We need at least one European or at least one solution in the framework of the EU countries. If policy is to drill hard boards, then – I always say – EU policy is drilling in granite blocks. Nevertheless, there is progress here. The fact that this financial transaction tax is already included as a proposal in the draft European Union's new financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020 already shows that there is a certain rethinking here. However, we will have to overcome significant obstacles over the next one and a half years, because the UK, Sweden and the Czech Republic are massively opposed, although the time for this tax has to be really ripe for two reasons – that is to say, two flies with one blow –: First of all, it is a measure against speculation – and my biggest concern for the future is that the financial economy has completely decoupled itself from the real economy that billions and trillions of dollars are being hunted every day completely independently of the real economy around the globe. Secondly, we have a public debt crisis in almost all European countries, and that would be the easiest way of getting more money without the small taxpayer being asked to pay for it. Time should be ripe in itself. I am therefore very pleased that I have been able to sign this request with my colleague, Mr Muttonen, because I would like to call my colleagues from the Socialist Group: Let us tax speculation, and let's not tax property!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23824	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23846	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Yes, it has long been true that Austria has been on its own with its demand for a financial transaction tax in the EU. In the meantime, however, the paper has turned, and I think that is not really surprising, because the financial transaction tax should ask exactly those who took part in the last crisis. It does not surprise me, therefore, that it has such great support within the population of the EU, because this financial transaction tax is finally a step in the right direction, a step towards greater justice. At the same time, the opponents of this financial transaction tax are getting less and less. The European Parliament has already adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This year, it was voted by a significant majority of 78 percent for the introduction of this tax. The European Commission has also voted in favour. In its proposals for the new multiannual financial framework of last week, it advocates the introduction of the financial transaction tax in all EU countries. Austria has addressed this tax as one of the first countries. Finally, German Chancellor Faymann and the Federal Government have been tirelessly committed to this and are constantly addressing it at European level. This new dynamic must now be used. We must now convince the remaining EU countries that are still skeptical of this financial transaction tax, especially the UK and Sweden, of the need to introduce it: We need economic stability and justice in Europe. We need rules that ensure that the burden of the crisis is justly distributed, and prevent a financial crisis in this order from repeating itself. A financial transaction tax is exactly the right means of doing so, as it prevents unsocial and highly risky speculation. With this joint motion for a resolution before us, we want to ultimately strengthen the German Government's backs on further negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23885	Mr Waldner spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23906	Mr President. High house! I also, of course, expressly welcome this proposal concerning a financial transaction tax, and also Vice-chanc and Foreign Minister Michael Spindelegger has always made it clear that Austria is taking action for such a tax at European and international level and that it is deposited in discussions at its counterparts in Germany and abroad. I would also like to remind you that it was – as early as 2005 – Wolfgang Schüssel as the Federal Chancellor who made this proposal and also proposed that revenue should benefit the EU budget. [[Abg. Petzner: Suggested at BZÖ's pressure!]] [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Mag. Donnerbauer and Hornek.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Petzner.]] The government programme states that the Federal Government will be committed to the binding introduction of the financial transaction tax vis-à-vis the EU partners, towards the European institutions and also in the context of the discussions and negotiations on the review and re-design of the EU budget. This lobbying was also made and is continued – both by the Vice Chancellor and the Federal Chancellor as well as by other members of the government – and has obviously borne fruit. The EU Commission's proposal to introduce such a tax in the light of the 2014 to 2020 financial framework is therefore also an Austrian success. I am pleased that this government issue is supported by all the parties represented in the National Council – already in 2008 and also with this request today. In introducing this tax, we believe it is important to ensure that, while the financial sector makes an appropriate contribution to addressing the costs of crisis, it is not overly burdened in order not to put the overall system in trouble. We therefore strongly reject the alternative of a financial activity tax which would have an inevitable negative impact on the European financial area. The European Commission has announced a very rapid study on the impact assessment of this transaction tax. This should soon provide us with a comprehensive basis for decision-making for further action. Although Austria's commitment to introducing such a tax has brought a first concrete success by taking up this idea by the Commission, we are still far from the fact that the tax is actually being introduced. It has already been said that some Member States have serious fundamental concerns, and also with regard to the use of funds – whether for national budgets, for the EU budget or for purposes – there are still some discussions ahead. This request, however, is for us a clear mandate and a signal of support to continue the path towards a speedy introduction as soon as possible. I therefore welcome this request and thank you for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23956	The next speaker was Mr Hübner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e23979	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We also support the financial transaction tax – therefore: However, we do not agree to the request in the form in which he is present, because, Mrs Muttonen, the financial transaction tax will certainly bring one thing: It will bring revenue, that is clear, and will therefore ask co-causer of the crisis to cash. That's somehow right in this rough form. It is probably not right for financial transaction taxes to prevent crises as they happened, because the financial transactions will not come to a halt and will not run out of crisis-free and safer. They will only make a contribution to the State budget or to the EU budget. That's, I think, the question. [[Abg. May. Muttons: But they are regular!]] - Please? [[Abg. May. Muttons: Regulatory!]] – They will also not intervene regulatoryly, but they will intervene. You're going to be a little expensive and maybe you're going to lower transaction speeds and volume a little. But more won't do that. So this is a money acquisition action, and we come to the question of who should get the money. Mr Schüssel said in the Committee that this tax will only come if the EU receives it if it becomes an EU tax, otherwise it will not come at all. Even today the tones have gone in this direction. Mr Gaßner said that the poor EU needs more money. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What did I say?- Oh, my God!]] Minister Berlakovich said that the EU must have more money, and we need the financial transaction tax so that people can continue to eat in the future, and such things. It is clear that: Do we want the money in the EU budget? – Clear answer from us: No, no, no, To date, it has not even been remembered that this inflow of taxes into the EU budget would lead to a relief of the contributors, so that the 1-percent limit remains and we say: 1 percent including financial transaction tax, and the rest is paid less by the members. We could live with that. However, this is not to be thought of, but it is based on an increase in the budget by exactly this tax. We do not agree with this, and we believe that Austria, as a country that pays about 3 billion and returns 2 billion, should have the lowest interest in blowing up this budget, because we are one of the big net payers. Therefore, the following request from us: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24059	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24118	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24139	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hübner, you will not be surprised at the fact that we will not agree to this request. We do not see the EU budget as a danger, but we would welcome it, especially because there was budgetary security. Secondly, you obviously did not understand the meaning of the common application and this common EU-wide financial transaction tax. It is about the fact that there is agreement on the financial markets. As far as I am concerned, even though I am not a financial politician. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] That is to say, national taxes can be collected differently. There must be no financial transaction tax, at least in the sense of what we think of it. Mr President, you are right: It is a long history, also in the Austrian Parliament. I've been looking at this. She's even longer than you say. There was already the first request from Mr Lunacek in 2002. Back then, it was a foreign exchange transaction tax. She was rather smiled at the time when this was first discussed, I let myself be told. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Foreign exchange is something else!]] – But nothing else! The meaning and the claim that we still have now is not quite another. The story has gone away. In 2005, there was a red-green application on the same subject, in fact in 2006 and 2008. In so far as we welcome and support the fact that there is now a common request for this. [[Abg. Silhavy: Attac once demanded this!]] - Not in your cupboard. That's from the old [[Abg. Silhavy: Attac!]] Attac demanded this even earlier, you can read this at Attac. In fact, it is important and necessary that this is finally introduced. It will probably not be enough to limit and control speculations and extensions on the financial market. This will require other measures at global level. Mr President, as I have already mentioned, the whole thing is, of course, in the wake of a country like the United Kingdom as soon as there is no such country. This is also a great danger in this context. Nevertheless, we welcome the fact that the Commission has now decided to do so. Unfortunately, the time frame now in the room is too wide. I think it would be very important to stress that this tax will be enforced by 2012 and not later. We are far behind the need for regulations in this area. The next crisis is announcing. You don't have to be particularly black-painting to see that this kind of thing is getting together. Another green concern, which Mr Lunacek raised at the time, was to create a balance in relation to global redistribution, a North-South balance. More specifically, the funds that can benefit from such a tax should not only be channelled into the EU budget, but should also be dedicated to achieving global justice within the meaning of the Millennium Goals, but also to setting up appropriate climate action – so much to our concerns, but above all our agreement to the common request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24208	Mr Scheibner spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24230	Ladies and gentlemen! We shall vote in favour of this request. Mr State Secretary, it is interesting that you see your party as the inventor of this financial transaction tax. [[Abg. Amon: Right!]] I can still remember very well how difficult it was in the government at that time in the negotiations to enforce exactly that as a demand. It makes sense and important to signal the speculators that financial transactions are taxed accordingly. This is just one point to prevent the stock exchanges from continuing to reach casinos and becoming less and less trading venues. That is why it is also important to extend this tax as far as possible. The euro area will certainly be too short. We know that London is one of the main trading places in these financial transactions. [[Abg. May. Worm: They're against it!]] Of course, Britain is opposed, but there is a need to put pressure on it in order to involve it. Mr State Secretary, this would once again be an opportunity to show Austrian self-confidence – and this is what I am referring to in my speech during the last debate. We are involved everywhere in dealing with the problems of other countries and in contributing to them. - All right, it's all right. But then we also take measures to enforce our own interests against all these speculators and profiters of the crises! Mr State Secretary! Where's that? Let's have a junkim. I know it's terrible to put a junkim in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to say: Yeah, you want something? We want something, too. If you want to enforce this, we also want to enforce our demand! But let us set up a junkim for the next billion transfers for the renovation of the disaster that the speculators have done! Let's say: Yeah, it's okay, we'll do that. But there must be a pan-European financial transaction tax! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr State Secretary, it would be interesting to consider this at least once. On the request of the FPÖ: We have a different line. We don't think it's interesting to lift that nationally. This is already to be lifted across Europe, but it will be reduced by EU contributions. That would be interesting once, because this would lead to more justice, so that exactly those who pay less, but very much benefit from these speculations, will also pay more into the common cash register. As we believe that those who spend the money must also bear responsibility for how they collect the money, for example among the countries, we also believe that this financial transaction tax should be abolished throughout Europe, but this should also lead to a reduction in the contributions of the countries and thus Austria. That is why we unfortunately have to refuse your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24287	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the resolution on measures to introduce a financial transaction tax annexed to the Committee Report 1347 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 178.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hübner, ladies and gentlemen, on the national collection of a European financial transaction tax. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[20:40:54]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment 1387/A(E) by Mr Franz Kirchgatterer, Mr Wolfgang Großruck, Mr Colle Gen on active participation of Austria in the global abolition of the death penalty (1261 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24363	We're going to the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Grosz. 2 minutes speaking time. – The Secretary of State will certainly listen very carefully. [[Secretary of State Dr. Waldner speaks to the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24405	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are discussing a motion for a resolution by the Government to abolish the death penalty, which is formulated as follows: to work at a bilateral level to move forward, to remember, perhaps today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, to kindly push the hands, nevertheless to operate the economy, but to address the death penalty at some point in the post-mortem visit, which is in a total of six points. – This is not even worth the paper on which it was written! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you write to perhaps have bilateral talks with China, mentioning the US with the death penalty still in place in some states, but you forget Turkey – stonings, murders. Mr Korun! They forget the question of the Kurds. You forget Saudi Arabia. They're forgetting Sudan. You forget Nigeria. In your application, you save all Islamic states where the death penalty is going on and going – where heads are being stoned, women are oppressed, women are injured, imprisoned, dictatorship prevails. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You don't care. The main thing is, you pour yourself into a zero-eighteen-fifteen request to have done something against the death penalty, heroic like Asterix and Obelix, the gallier against Rome. Ladies and gentlemen, the death penalty will certainly not be abolished if one does not at last show hardness in Austrian foreign policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Spindelegger makes Austrian foreign policy with the garden hose, one chooses the interlocutors every day in Libya, in Egypt and in the whole of the Middle East one no longer has the stand that Austria once had, because one makes with these demonstrators, then again with a military regime foreign policy, and does not know what one wants. That is also noticeable in the question of the death penalty. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the Greens and the Social Democrats, the Republic of Austria does not know what it wants on this point either and calms her conscience with this printed roll of paper before the summer. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What I think is very strange is that on the same committee day we have dealt with a request concerning the reprocessing of crimes against humanity in Slovenia, which has been postponed by you. This is a request that deserves the name of the application. Mr Grosz, Mr Bucher, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Schenk and Mr Spadiut said: We want to open up the crimes in Slovenia, the mass grave found in Laško. We want to remind Slovenia today that we Austrians have fulfilled Article 7, but Slovenia is still not ready to commit these crimes against to open up humanity. This is a delay in saying that a Commission is going to discuss it sometime. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if you think that this is the way human rights policy is going to be done in the future, you will not be taken seriously at international level either. That is why we will not agree to this motion for a resolution by the government groups because we do not have to re-determine the alphabet. We from BZÖ are in favour of effectively combating the death penalty and the introduction of a human civilization of the 21st century. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24488	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24509	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My previous speaker has forgotten one thing: He was not even present in the discussions in the Human Rights Committee and did not take part in the deliberations. If he had been there, he could have made proposals. The proposal – an important proposal from the Human Rights Committee – was put at the right time – because Austria was elected to the UN Human Rights Committee in May, and this is a very good body to take steps forward in this area. [[Abg. Scheibner: Great!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Great! Great! Epochal!]] Four countries are mentioned in the application: China, Iran, Russia and USA. For example, the explanatory statement refers to the situation in the USA, to the risk of misdemeanors. It is pointed out that the hundred people – especially from poorer layers, because they cannot afford good lawyers – are sentenced to death sentences and many are not released into these cells until after many years. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Every misdemeanor is bad, even in Austria, without the death penalty!]] I would also like to point out that China is mentioned. We know from the Amnesty International report that it is estimated that in 2009 the 10 000 people were executed. The Amnesty International report assumes that more people are being executed in China than in the rest of the world. Iran is also mentioned where the death penalty is carried out in a very medieval way. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this issue is too serious to be polemised. The death penalty violates the right to life, against human dignity. The House is called upon to strengthen its backs in broad agreement with our government and our representatives. Not only the government, but also the Bureau of the National Council should point out the importance of this issue in the many contacts. I am convinced that Austria is heard, that Austria is being perceived and that these are important topics for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24584	Mr Waldner spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24607	Mr President. High house! I would like to comment briefly on all four proposals and requests under discussion on the subject of death penalty and the protection of religious minorities. To the request of Mr Franz Kirchgatterer and Mr Wolfgang Großruckfor the death penalty, I can confirm that Austria has long been involved with its European partners for the worldwide abolition of the death penalty. If you look at the current death penalty figures, you can see the relevance of the issue. In 58 countries, the death penalty is laid down by law, 25 of which have also been applied in recent years. It is estimated that up to 24,000 people in a death cell are expected to wait for their execution. In China last year – it was already indicated – about 1,700 people were executed, almost 400 in Iran, 120 in Iraq, 69 in Saudi Arabia and 52 in the USA. The European Union regularly provides a resolution at the UN General Assembly for a global moratorium on the death penalty, most recently within the framework of the 65th General Assembly. General Assembly in October 2010. Through systematic lobbying in the form of demarches and public declarations, or through active response in EU human rights dialogues, as well as through intervention in specific cases, the non-application and suspension of the death penalty. Our long-term goal is, of course, to convince other states of the abolition of the death penalty. On the requests made by Mrs Alev Korun and Mr Gerald Grosz, I should like to point out a focus on Austrian foreign policy, namely the protection of religious minorities. This protection of religious minorities will be carried out by Austria in the UN Human Rights Council...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24643	Excuse me, Secretary of State: It is not common for other agenda items to be discussed in a previous item on the agenda; otherwise we may have the discussion twice. I would ask you to comment on this request, which will be discussed in the next item on the agenda, on the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24665	I'll get back in touch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24692	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24713	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen. This item on the agenda is one that goes under one's skin. Many in this hall probably cannot imagine the scope of this subject at all. The Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). This request calls for an active participation in the abolition of the death penalty in Austria, and this is strongly called for, ladies and gentlemen. “Every person has the right to life, freedom and security of the person”, says Article 3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Unfortunately, reality looks quite different. In 2009, more than 2,000 people were sentenced to death in 56 states, and at least 700 people were actually executed. China is not included in these figures. According to BBC, 1,500 people were executed. The dark figure, however, is up to 10,000 people who had to leave their lives unwarranted. In the United States, 35 out of 50 states are still subject to the death penalty. It should be borne in mind that since 1973 far more than 100 people have had to be released from the death cell, because it was clearly misjudgments, which were retroactive findings which simply did not make this procedure acceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty, in a calm and sensible way, to use us as Austrians, as Europeans worldwide, to ensure that death penalty is not executed as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24750	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24771	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll make this clear. We liberals are against the death penalty and will therefore support this request. The participation of Austria in the worldwide abolition of the death penalty is important. Mr Hornek, under the skin you have nothing to do with the request, I have to say, because this request, as I am of course a little bit with Mr Grosz, is a little half-heartedly formulated. [[Abg. Hornek: Before that it was quite different!]] A little halfhearted is the wording already, if you just say China is being asked to gradually restrict the death penalty. – So of course you can’t say that this is under the skin! In principle, however, it is important for Austria to put a sign across the party borders and clearly oppose the death penalty. This request therefore finds our support. But the wording is worthy of discussion, that is not at all a question, and of course one can see that when one reads the request more precisely, there are some countries – and I must also give Mr Grosz the right one – completely missing. Iran is simply being asked to stop setting up minors, which is now taken out of the motion for a resolution. So, Mr Hornek, I don't know what's going on with you. There's very little going on under my skin because I'm saying, This request is half-hearted. But of us there is a clear no to enforce the death penalty. It is abolished worldwide and therefore we support the request. But, as has been said, the text of this request is, of course, absolutely worthy of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24806	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24827	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! Of course, it is not only useful, but also necessary for Austria to fight the death penalty in the global fight against the death penalty for the universal abolition of the death penalty, both within the EU and within the EU. joint and bilateral discussions with other EU partners. That is why we will support this request. We naturally expect that this commitment to abolishing the death penalty is not quiet, but very loud. The only point I should like to add to Mr Grosz's statement is that this must certainly not take place at dessert, at an official meal or at bilateral talks. I would also like to point out that we are very closely monitoring the bilateral relations of Austria with China and that, of course, it cannot be possible for human rights interests to be sacrificed to economic interests and export interests of the Austrian economy, to be concluded first and then added to the trade agreements and to mention the subject only by the way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is gratifying that some of our suggestions have been included in the motion for a resolution, for example that political pressure should also be exerted on those countries which have included themselves in the last UN resolution on the moratorium on the abolition of the death penalty of the vote and that they should also be stopped from abolishing the death penalty. The application is more than sensible. However, as we have said, it does not stick to this request and does not stick to the decision, but rather to the fact that Austria's foreign policy, which has actually been lived, will become even stronger than it has been before. In this sense, I would like to thank you now for your efforts, Mr State Secretary, to live up to this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24875	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the resolution on Austria's active participation in the global abolition of the death penalty, annexed to the Committee's report 1261. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 179.) [[20:58:19]] 19. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 1261/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues with regard to the persecution of religious minorities in Afghanistan and the necessary EU commitment to minority protection (1262 d.a.) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 1437/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues with regard to the persecution of religious, ethnic and linguistic minorities and the necessary EU commitment to the protection of human rights and minorities (1263, e.g.) 21. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment 1404/A(E) by Mr Gerald Grosz, colleagues on the sanctions of terrorist attacks on Coptic Orthodox Christians in Egypt (1264, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24954	We now come to points 19 to 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Vock is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e24981	My President! Mr State Secretary! High house! I should like to mention briefly the 2010 foreign and European policy report. In this, it says literally: "The use of Austria for the right to freedom of religion is a focus of Austrian human rights policy. Austria has participated in the elaboration of an EU strategy on the enhanced use of the EU for religious freedom." That is to say, this report indicates that Mr Grossruck and Mr Kirchgatterer's requests and the two requests made by Mr Korun have been carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs within the EU for a year. That is why we can, on the one hand, agree with these requests with a calm conscience, but the actuality of these requests is questionable. I am reluctant to give my colleague Grosz the right, but one thing has to be confirmed to him: In future, we should look more closely at those requests which have not yet been implemented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Committee on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25014	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25036	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dealing with human rights, such as the debate on the death penalty and also the protection of minorities, is closely linked to the policy of European democracies. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] As a direct and yet massive challenge for the European Union, it is important to highlight the Roma. This group of 10 to 12 million people in Europe suffers from even greater social disadvantages: higher unemployment, lower income, poor housing, lower educational opportunities, exclusions from the point of view. It is not long ago, namely in 2008, that the Berlusconi government created a biometric database of Roma, including minors. A whole group of people was stigmatized with this. This does not correspond to the values of democracy or European thought. Similarly, the Sarkozy Government in France, which last year carried out mass designations of Roma, is also to be accused. If you look more closely at the subject, you would want to hear a clear voice from Austrian foreign policy as well. On the indirect link with human rights: As we read in newspapers today, it is currently being debated in the German Bundestag to export 200 state-of-the-art Leopard tanks to Saudi Arabia; a regime that is not known for its democratic policy attitude. ==References== A visit by the Iranian Foreign Minister here in Austria was announced on July 7. I would like our Foreign Minister, Dr Spindelegger, to address the issue of human rights more precisely. In a short time, I would just like to say that I would like to thank the non-governmental organisations, the so-called NGOs, for their valuable work on human rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25087	Mrs Mag. Korun is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25108	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! I would like to start with TOP 19, and I would like to say once again to my astonishment that the government groups have simply rejected this request for protection for religious minorities in Afghanistan and the necessary EU commitment to minority protection. This is still inconceivable for us in view of the atrocities and the persecution of religious minorities in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is known to be a country in which the persecution of different religious minorities, Bahais, Sikhs, has taken on horrendous proportions of Christians in recent years. We cannot understand this rejection at all, and I would also be interested to explain to me – if someone mentions the government groups – what is the reason for the rejection of minority protection in Afghanistan or for its use. I would like to talk briefly about the humanitarian situation in Syria, in the short time available to me. We all know that the situation of Syrian refugees is disastrous. There is also a need for protection for refugees and also for members of religious minorities. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I would like to address the last two applications for TOP 20 and TOP 21. The request from me, my fellow Members and my colleagues concerning the persecution of religious, ethnic and linguistic minorities and the necessary EU commitment to the protection of human rights and minorities has unfortunately been watered down by the government fractions with an §-27 proposal. We have also talked about this in the Committee for a longer time that what we have requested with this request has unfortunately been watered down. We did not agree to this amendment in committee, but because we are in favour of global minority protection, we will agree to it, as it stands, even if it is difficult for us to do so, because what we have proposed was much more important. On the last request, Mr Grosz, I would like to say that he throws all the countries into a pot in his polemics, and, for example, when he calls for Egypt to remove the aid for development... – I am glad that you have now recognized this, Mr President. [[Abg. Grosz:... three projects!]] Austria has no development cooperation with Egypt, which is why the application in this form is unfortunately relatively absurd. [[Abg. Grosz: But that has nothing to do with the state!]] Yes, to any minority protection, including, of course, and especially, for religious, ethnic and linguistic minorities all over the world, but in this form, this proposal makes no sense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25183	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25257	Next speaker: Mr. State Secretary Dr. Waldner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25278	Madam President. High house! I would like to refer to the two motions tabled by Mrs Korun and others. Mr Grosz stresses that the protection of religious minorities has always been a priority of Austrian foreign policy, and that we will, of course, pay particular attention to this protection of religious minorities in the UN Human Rights Council, in which we are now known to have been elected for three years. However, we have already committed ourselves at various levels to the protection of religious minorities. At EU level, for example, we regularly participate with the other partners in increasing the topic of religious freedom, for example by reporting annually to the EU Council of Ministers or by commissioning the European External Action Service with the collection of data and by preparing concrete proposals for such activities. We have not only initiated the establishment of an EU Religious Freedom Task Force, but also actively cooperated in this Task Force – and a specific EU catalogue has already been drawn up on how existing instruments should be used to promote religious freedom. In addition, the topic of human rights dialogues with third countries with various common EU demarches and concrete statements on the situation, for example the Bahai in Iran, the Copts in Egypt or Christians in Iraq. Austria also regularly addresses the issue of freedom of religion in bilateral meetings. As part of his Middle East journey in April, Vice Chancellor Michael Spindelegger was particularly committed to freedom of religion and the protection of religious minorities and has explicitly also the Pope of the Copts Schenuda III in Egypt. and hit the Great Sheikh of Al-Azhar University and Mosque Ahmad Al-Tayyeb. At UN level, the subject matter, as already mentioned, will naturally be a priority within the framework of our membership of the Human Rights Council. In addition, we support the mandate of the UN Special Rapporteur on Religious Freedom. Finally, I can assure you that the protection of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities – which is also the subject of a request for discussion – is generally a focus of our human rights work, both bilaterally and at EU level and at UN level. Finally, the 20th anniversary of the UN Declaration on the Protection of Minorities, which will take place in 2012, will of course also provide a good opportunity to raise international attention and further improve the protection of minorities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25329	Mr Glaser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25351	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The election of Austria to the UN Human Rights Council has certainly caused the issue of human rights to be taken a little more into account in Austria. I believe that this has also been clearly felt in the last committee, and it has already been very clearly seen that the individual parties have, of course, special access to this issue and perhaps prefer special countries and ideologies. What the Greens are, for example, Afghanistan is Egypt's BZÖ. I think that is quite right, because in general, all human rights violations – no matter where they occur, whether from linguistic, ethical or religious motives – belong to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is about not staying at a narrow point of view, but actually perceiving all human rights violations wherever they happen. If, for example, Mr Korun has tabled the request concerning Syria, I have to say that, of course, this is absolutely supportive, especially on current occasions, but besides that, there are many other countries where such injuries happen, whether Iran, Colombia, Guatemala or Libya. So we can list a dozen countries where this is a problem. Mr Korun, we do not reject your request, but he is included in my view in the request that we have tabled and decided together. It is not a question of rejecting any request, no matter who it comes from, but it is a matter of really trying to formulate a comprehensive request, of deciding how we have decided and, hopefully, now that we will also decide where we really take into account all the countries and all the problems we have in the protection of minorities. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He has made a very strange request, because he has made a connection between terrorism and development cooperation, which is already a risky piece. There is no such connection anywhere, because quite the contrary: Development cooperation is intended to prevent terrorism. I would like to conclude by reading to all, perhaps specifically to Mr Grosz, Article 1 of human rights: “All men are born free and equal to dignity and rights. They are gifted with reason and conscience, and they are to meet one another in the spirit of fraternity." There's nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25414	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25435	Mr Van der ÖVP! Reason and conscience should be fooled if, in the course of this today, we discuss a request from me about condemning the violence of Coptic Christians in Egypt. We were all very shocked when, in the New Year's Eve in Alexandria, Christian minorities were slaughtered as terrorist acts in Egypt, not only since this New Year's Eve, but years before, they have always been practiced against these Christian minorities, and the official Austria has once again created it from January 2011 to July 2011, not to mention to condemn these attacks on Christian minorities today. Conscience and understanding, colleague Glaser! Conscience, mind, access to the protection of minorities, access to the protection of religious minorities, especially in the Middle East, is not a matter for a Christian-social party in this House! You have to imagine that! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So we now have the situation that in many countries of the Middle East, terror is being done against the Christian religious communities. And the Austrian foreign and human rights policy is limited to looking for new negotiators in Egypt on a weekly basis, in order to disappear in an emergency in some moron, just to say nothing, ladies and gentlemen! Second example Libya: Foreign Minister Spindelegger welcomes and recognises a so-called exile government in Libya. Ladies and gentlemen, which Libyan represents this government: the one from Western Libya, the one from East Libya? Are those who have received Mr Spindelegger from the East actually those who live in the West of Libya, to whom the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now recognises the right to represent, without pointing to the human rights situation in Libya? Ladies and gentlemen! In Syria: Human rights abuses, however, to which the Austrian Federal Government is silent! Iran, Iraq, where the Austrian Federal Government is at the latest silent and on the dive site when it comes to attacks against Christian minorities! Is this your Christian-social attitude that you show that you are obviously ashamed of the fact that you also let Christians around the world receive a little protection, ladies and gentlemen of the former Christian party ÖVP? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Korun, a Green – the colour of the Prophet is also green, as we know, therefore probably a special affection for the Prophet and for the Christians – here goes out and claims – the head movement of the Members of the Korun, the wiper movement that you have just done to me, please, Madam President. – that I would like to know in my request that development cooperation projects with the states, for example with Egypt, should be banned if there is a breach of Christian minorities. No, not with, but in, Mrs Korun. It is also present in countries, not with countries. If you do not know, Austrian development cooperation will finance development projects in Egypt, not very few. What we want is that Austrian tax money is not available to those states and to those projects in those States where cruel action is being taken against religious minorities, where there is a killing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then this may be worth some newspaper comment, but Austrian foreign policy is silent. This, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Korun, is not an foreign policy, it is not a human rights policy to restrict itself in the previous item on the agenda to supporting and thinking of a Lapidaran motion by the government parties, to have been enforced and to change the proposal, just because the I-I has been replaced by an amendment. This is not human rights policy if we look at the states of the Middle East, where there is the death penalty, where there are attacks on all dissidents. I am proud to live in Austria, where we also have freedom of religion. We do not burn a mosque, we do not kill Muslim believers, we do not fight against Jehovah’s Witnesses, we do not discriminate against the Catholic or the Christian churches. But we are dealing here with countries that do not tolerate any of the majority religion in their countries – and we do not want to do so, because human rights also include religious freedom. That's what you're writing behind your ears.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25501	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25522	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to comment on some of the comments made by my predecessor: Colleagues Grosz always manages to discuss a profoundly human topic in human beings too. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I am opposed to this polemic against a colleague in this House. We are discussing three requests on human rights, which have also been strongly debated in the committee responsible. All three applications result in a negative committee report or in a resolution tabled by the SPÖ and the ÖVP on the subject of the persecution of religious and linguistic minorities. We Socialists will, of course, be taking note of this motion for a resolution or of the negative committee reports and also of the motion for a resolution tabled by Members. Van der Bellen, Schüssel, Muttonen and other Members of Parliament agree. High house! We can discuss requests, consents or rejections, but we cannot discuss human rights. Human rights are not disputable for us Social Democrats and, hopefully, for all in this House, they are a matter of course, they are indivisible, they apply to all people, regardless of their nationality, religious attitude and political attitude. For us, therefore, human rights are not an issue of event legislation, but they are in principle guaranteed. That is why we have also tabled the proposals in this regard. In many places in this world, human rights are being trampled with feet, whether that is in Afghanistan, as you address it in your application, or in Egypt, Syria, Libya, China or Iran, at many focal points in the world, the human data are being disregarded and will most strongly violate human rights. People everywhere are entitled to the use of the free world for them. And especially in democratic, wealthy and secure Austria, together with the other EU countries, we should work for human rights day by day. Therefore, once again: Mrs Korun, we also support this request that you have tabled. We, the Social Democracy, hold human rights high. We also recognise all the efforts and the tenor of your requests, only we believe – once again – that one should not be allowed or regionally related to a specific case as you address him, minority persecution in Afghanistan, but we should, in principle, use this in our common proposal, for human rights. By the way: The FPÖ has also joined this request in the Committee, which is very remarkable. In particular, this request states that at EU level, our Federal Government should in principle work to call for compliance with international standards on human rights and the protection of minorities and, in particular, increased protection against discrimination and violence, together with other EU partner countries worldwide. In order to be successful in this direction, ladies and gentlemen, it is not at all useful to argue here unilaterally and inaccurately as in the BZÖ proposal with the boycott of development promotion measures and threaten to po Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen, human rights are indivisible, human rights are equally respected for all. That is what a large majority in this House sees as it is, and that is good. In this sense: Human rights are not a game ball for demagogy, polemics and party politics. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25596	Mr Riemer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25617	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! That was already a strong piece: FPÖ, free – and not human rights. I've never heard of that before and I really reject it! Especially in the FPÖ, this is very deeply rooted: the freedom of the individual and his attitude – but also for his own people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:All people!]] - All people. There you have to quote Schiller a little more, he meant it differently. But let's just get to the subject because religion has been addressed – it's been brought over here so toothlessly –: Gerald Groszhat already right: Today, 100 million Christians are persecuted, tortured, tortured, executed, dragged away, and other atrocities because of their faith. According to the World Tracking Index of Open Doors, 50 countries are led by the strongest Christian persecution. I'm not going to do this now and you're bored, but I'm just saying, there are nice states with it: Egypt, Vietnam – we have already had –, Algeria, North Korea, Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Syria, Jordan, Morocco, Arab Emirates, wherever you can do good business. That's it. And amazingly, these many Islamic states, which are among them, are among those that have liberated the West in the Arab spring. That's a great story. We start negotiations, on the other hand, we do not know how to deal with religious minorities, which standards they have at all. I have to say quite frankly, there's another story about it, that's the religious one. I don't want to continue, we've heard that. Is it really that good if, as I hear, 4,000 combat missions are flown with precision and high accuracy rates in Libya – I quote, please? I'm not a Gaddafi friend, I didn't know him before, I won't get to know him later, but one thing is clear: 4,000 combat missions, so please, what do they want to do? You should think about it! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Refugee flows coming to Europe are the next problem. The EU that is pleading is still to pay. Of course, this includes – let us go to Austria – the archaic circumcision, which is also a human rights issue, forced marriages and also the protection of unborn life, which is also discussed again, minority protection, AVNOJ decisions, today a great topic, has also adapted to the day, the Beneš decrees. Yes, human and religious standards and an active European peace policy for the world. Please be active, better yesterday than tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25664	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25687	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker spoke about amazing things. I really find it amazing what you give of yourself: They say that human rights are deeply rooted in the FPÖ. I want to remind you of a scene. It was, as I believe, the last financial committee, where, among other things, we talked about bilateral investment protection agreements and I agreed that the respect of the human rights clause contained in these investment protection agreements must not only remain paper, but must also be truly lived on that which really needs to be put on the agenda. And what was the FPÖ's answer to that? – Well, you can also exaggerate it! What do human rights have to do with financial investment protection agreements? Look, I think you're really human-lawed flatwurzler. This is certainly not deeply rooted in you, because human rights are all a cross-sectional issue, and human rights must be integrated and implemented wherever possible. And in any case, these are the possibilities we have at bilateral economic level. Where else? To discuss the protection of Coptic Christians in a country where there is a whole bunch of human rights violations. It has been said several times: Human rights are indeed indivisible. And I can't explain why you go where you go and make a difference whether Christians, Muslims, agnostics or anyone else are being persecuted. I don't understand. How can you differentiate? Human rights violations to all people – Mr Glaser has already said that – which are the same, are to be condemned. How can I take out a group? A third thought on development cooperation: With countries where there are nationally legitimate human rights violations, there is no development cooperation at state level. If the BZÖ demands that there be no development cooperation in these countries in general and no development cooperation at all, I wonder how our contribution could really look to eradicate human rights violations there – if we do not strengthen civil society, strengthen media and public relations, strengthen the free press, strengthen empowerment of women, et cetera. We are not working there with any terrorist regimes, but with civil society structures that are doing exactly against these human rights violations. The alternative would be to sit and watch, and that certainly is not one of my views.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25724	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25746	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! You know, with this beautiful speech – Mr Sacher – with a few nice phrases, you don't learn the Islamic mob that kills people. This is not the language you understand there. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] This whole politically correct plapper doesn't impress anyone there. [[Abg. Rädler: Are you right or liberal?]] There's the right to speak. And these are those who Christ himself meant, the lukewarm brothers. [[Call the FPÖ:Holy!]] You are only Christians if you believe you can make a few voices at the procession. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In the moment, ladies and gentlemen – yes, the wiper, that's the right one up there – where a little bit of profit could be threatened, at the moment there is nothing left of your Christianity. [[Abg. Slickovits: Be a little quieter, Mr. Colleague!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But yes, of course! What did you do?- Oh, my God! Get up and say! You can come down and talk. What have you done to protect the Coptic Christians in Egypt? – Well, say it! Do not raise the question of Mr Grosz's polemic request. Let's go, let's go down, let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! What did you do?- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. What did you do?- Oh, my God!]] I fight every day for the rights of Christians in Iraq and Egypt, but I do not have a foreign ministry at my disposal. You're occupied by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's your deputy chancellor, it's your State Secretary who's sitting up there. So, what are you doing, lukewarm brothers?- Oh, my God! Christ himself says: I'll spit them out! After you are good candidates for spouting, ladies and gentlemen. You are the lukewarm brothers, before whom the Lord warns! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yes, you great human rights defender, let's give the whole thing a face. Those 23 Christians who were killed on New Year’s Eve are described in the “level. ” One of them was a 21-year-old student, Mariam Fakri. The bomb that Islamic terrorists have deposited there killed 23 people. This family of Fakri survived only the father. He had to identify his family the next day. He did not like it easily because some of his family members were so torn by screws, ball bearing parts and mothers that he did not recognize them. These are victims who have a face – “spiegel” of the 10th century. January 2011. In Pakistan, which is mentioned in the same article, other Christians were murdered. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: proposals?- Oh, my God!]] Yeah, I have proposals, I'm talking now. I only describe the whole “tape” of the ÖVP once, who are the victims, because they have no idea. 14 days ago, the report on the murder of several Christians from Nigeria was taken out of the Internet because it was so cruel. What have you done so far in bilateral relations with Nigeria, Egypt, Iraq, Somalia and Sudan? Austria has projects running there everywhere, we finance everywhere, we put money in everywhere. You, your ministry has not made the improvement of conditions for Christians there a single time – I make every bet – depending on further payments. You know, I'm rarely on the side of the United States of America, but on that point I'm on her side. The United States of America is doing very well, and then, if Christians are persecuted in a particular country, further support depends on improving the situation of Christians. For example, the U.S. responded when a evangelical church was burned down in Pakistan a few months ago and the church visitors in it were burned with a living body. I have never heard that the Austrian Federal Government has made any payment to any Islamic country dependent on the fact that against the Mob – I do not claim that it is always the state – one has killed these people, and has killed them most cruelly. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I don't know what you're doing, Mr. Cot. Should I tell you how it was, how the woman crawled out of the fire and was pushed back in by the mob, half burned? Should I tell you how a Christian clung to the cross lay on the ground, his lower extremities had already been burned, but he was still alive because he had a good constitution? Look Once upon a time, you know how these people are going to leave us – from you and other lukewarm brothers. Ladies and gentlemen, in Iraq alone, 1.2 million Christians have fled. The situation in countries where the great democracy movement is now taking place has not improved for Christians. In all countries there, the conditions for Christians have deteriorated. Austria is said to finance democracy movements there, supposedly financing the start. We finance a lot of projects, but not once have we made it dependent on a country going against the murderers who killed Christians! That's the shame you have to bear! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You understand, it doesn't matter to the texting or the ductus of any application. You could go out and say: Mr Grosz, your request has failed because we have first, second, third, fourth, fifth. We have in Egypt, we have in Pakistan, we have in Somalia, we have done this and that. You have nothing to show. Nothing, nothing! Bullshit! [[Calls of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This is not the way Christians deserved. You have the task of assisting your Christian brothers! You would have the task of confessing as Christians, you would have the task of making the Austrian taxpayers' money dependent on the protection of Christians in these countries instead of mocking the victims of these people! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kößl.]] These are the martyrs of 20 and 21. century, people who are abandoned by you – by you and other lukewarm brothers.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25929	Next speaker: Mrs Rauch-Kallat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25951	Madam President. High house! In fact, I did not want to talk today, but I am reserved for Friday, but Mr Stadler, if you think that you are the only ones who have leased the right, and think that you could say here with your polemics that Austria has not said... [[Abg. May. Stadler: I didn't say that!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e25993	Mr Stadler! Mr Grosz! Mr Petzner! Ladies and gentlemen in this House have listened to your speeches. I would also like to ask for this at the time of Mrs Rauch-Kallat's speech. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and greens.]] Please, you are on the floor, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26024	Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this hatred, which affects you here, I will also be happy to deal with political culture on Friday. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But now, as President of the Society of Austria-Egypt and the Austrian-Tunisian Society, let me say something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You did a shmarr’n!]] Don't say that this country wouldn't have done anything! Some of the victims you mentioned and described here were treated very dramatically in Austrian hospitals here, very well treated and rehabilitated for Austrian tax money. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] And what you obviously don't know is that the Austrian state has been... [[Abg. Petzner: Who supplies the weapons?- Oh, my God!]] - Maybe you'll listen to this! I'd like to talk to you about my husband afterwards, but now I'd like to talk to you about this. [[New calls from the Abg. May. Stadler.]] They should simply listen and learn that the Austrian state has been taking up Coptic Christians in Austria for months and is not talking about it very carefully and – for security reasons for the people concerned – not very much. [[Abg. May. Stadler: At tax-paying costs!]] I would think that all that you call for cannot be done by Austria alone, but that Austria is well aware of its humanitarian commitment to Christians around the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26151	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The gun lobbyist talks about...! Shame!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall be voting on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Committee on Human Rights to take note of its report 1262 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on Agenda item 20, first of all on the request of the Committee on Human Rights, to take note of its report 1263 of the additions to the motion for a resolution1437/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the follow-up to the Committee's report 1263 on the persecution of religious, ethnic and linguistic minorities and the EU's need for the protection of human rights and minorities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 180.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen, Dr Schüssel, Mr Mag. Muttons, colleagues and colleagues on the humanitarian situation in Syria, the situation of Syrian refugees and the protection of members of religious minorities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 181.) Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Proposal from the Committee on Human Rights to take note of its report 1264 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[21:43:29]] 22. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2010/10 (III-175/1315, D.B.) 23. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2010/9 (III-172/1316, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26227	We now come to points 22 and 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Zanger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26256	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! “Like a barrel without a floor”, “like a made in the bacon” or “with foreign money it is easy to live” – all this could be said and claimed when it comes to the permanent representation in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26280	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm waiting for peace now! [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler, I now give you a call for order on the basis of your behaviour. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] I call Mr Zanger. [[Abg. Grosz: For what is an order call? Please explain this, Madam President.]] [[Subsequent calls and calls between representatives of BZÖ and SPÖ.]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak here on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Abg. Grosz: Then make the robbers for a gun lobbyist!]] And if Mr Zanger is speaking now, he is, and if there are other discords, you can also do it in front of the hall. This is inappropriate, Mr President, as the debate is being held here, just from your point of view. And if I don't rest now, I'll interrupt the session until rest comes back. [[Abg. Grosz: Then we interrupt!]] [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] I interrupt the meeting and ask the club chairmen to come to me. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26381	I'll start the interrupted session again. I call Mr Zanger. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll put the clock back to you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26412	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Yes, if it is emotional, then in principle it can continue emotionally, because the subject we have to discuss here does not contain less explosives. ‘Fass without soil’, ‘Made in bacon’, ‘it is easy to live with foreign money’ – this is how Austria’s permanent representation in the EU can be described! This is particularly true of what the Court of Auditors said in its report. I thank the Court of Auditors for this impressive proof of how tax money is handled in Brussels. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why can you say that? – A few figures from this report: 219 employees work in Austria in Brussels. This does not seem to be much in absolute terms, but if you know that the Federal Republic of Germany, which is ten times the size of Austria, holds the same number, then you can see in which oversized Austrian representation is equipped with staff in Brussels. This staff costs us 25 million € per year; that is 115 000 € per person. That's not enough! It is not enough to have staff in Brussels, no, you also need staff in the various coordination bodies in Austria. And these are another 165 people who cost €8 million. Now you could say: Everything is nice and good, it's a bit a lot, but if there's a corresponding performance for it, then we could still agree to it and say: Okay, but what these people in Brussels do for us, for Austria, is not recognizable. The only thing that is done is to do lobbying and let yourself go well out there. 5 000 meetings are attended from Brussels and another 3 000 a year must be sent from Austria. I wonder how this can be, because if you already have such a stately number of employees, you do not need to send staff from Austria to Brussels. I am convinced that there will be a corresponding reduction in the representation and pooling of areas of responsibility. The Court of Auditors speaks of about 40 percent of the speakers. That's safe to do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are also misunderstandings in the interest groups, because not only does the state provide persons who work or do not work on the spot, but also all the representations of interest, the chambers, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Chamber of Commerce, the Farmers' Federation, the trade union. All this costs the taxpayer up to €4 million per year. I have nothing against the fact that these representations of interest stop in Brussels and I know what I do there, but the taxpayer does not have to pay for them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl]] Mr Riepl, the union can afford this. Wa Do we have to pay this out of the cash register? I'll ask you that! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Riepl.]] In this context, because this is not correct, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, I would like to end my speech with a quote from a great American President, Thomas Jefferson. He said: “If we can stop the government from wasting the people’s work under the pretext of caring for the people, then the people will be happy.” By “we” we are here meant, we, the National Council. We have to stop the government! I know you both don't, but we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26533	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26594	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26622	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Dear Mr. Zanger, this really really impressed me after the previous very emotional discussion. It is noted that you have not yet dealt very intensively with questions of the European Union, otherwise you would not come to those of your presentations. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors report on the permanent representation of Austria in Brussels deals with the interface between Austria, Austrian interests, the interests of Austrians and the European institutions there. And the people there are not lobbyists, but people who travel daily for the Austrians. It is important that this representation works very well. And if you want to prevent the social partners or the federal states from working in Brussels, I can only say: Good night, because the Services Directive would not have been implemented without the initiative of the social partners in Europe as we now have it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: They can be active, but at their own expense!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you see a thick book here. [[The speaker points to the above - mentioned book.]] The Court of Auditors is celebrating 250 years this year. Professor Pelinka writes in his contribution that the Court of Auditors serves to inform the public that there is a public discourse and a democratic debate on the effectiveness of the tax funds used. This dispute, this discourse is very important. Ludwig von Zinzendorf, the first head of the court accountant, was the Count of Zinzendorf, who began the reform of the financial administration, who introduced the state inventory. That is to say, he has created the overview of various cash registers and has also driven forward the introduction of the camera list. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is important that the public is informed and entered into a discourse. But, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, with you it is sometimes very difficult to get into a discourse.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26689	Mr Grastaur has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26711	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. Lapp, it's not difficult with us at all! We're just describing reality. This is the same as the Court of Auditors. And there's nothing else we can do here. That you don't like that, I can imagine. We really do not understand that the Trade Union Confederation and all the other chambers are getting subsidies from the state so that they are based in Brussels. So I really don't understand that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Article 51a of the Federal Constitutional Act speaks of economy, economy and effectiveness, and the permanent representation of Austria to the EU does not bring that unfortunately to God. Mr Zanger has already given some examples of this, and I would like to add a few more. The Court of Auditors argues that 62 persons could be saved, because the German representation has only 175 people, but we 218. A very special Gustopückerl is the story with the electorate. The Commissioner - I do not know who it was - has received €2,000 per month for 37 months as an extraordinary housing allowance, a volunteer. This is a total damage of €70 903. I ask you: Who is responsible for this mismanagement? Who? And that's what I'm saying: In fact, the Commissioner, who has decided on this, has to repay the money, because this is directed against taxpayers. That's how you can't handle tax money! We know that Brussels is an expensive patch. In part, the rents are over 300 € per month. But our representatives who work there or are not, ladies and gentlemen, very well accommodated. The Salzburg liaison office, for example, has 161 square meters of office space down to one person. At least ten people could work in there. And by pooling the offices, a lot could be saved. A final example of how money is being shrouded in Brussels: From July 2004 to December 2005, the head of the Permanent Residence, which was rebuilt, lived in a hotel and caused €67,000 in costs. The whole thing is because there is no one in Brussels who controls, coordinates and is responsible for the whole process. – Statement by the Secretary of State. We therefore make the following further request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26786	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is also being discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26840	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26862	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Zanger, the Court of Auditors' report on the Permanent Representation in Brussels was presented and discussed in the Committee, and of 22 Court of Auditors recommendations 20 have been implemented – and you have to take note of this – two are in implementation. That is why I think we need not discuss it. A reporting shall be established. Synergies are used. Calls have been made. The current costs have been examined. [[Abg. Singer: Let's keep looking!]] Thank you, Mr Zanger. [[Abg. Singer: waste money!]] Mr President. The best congratulations to the 250th anniversary of the Court of Auditors. For the future, we wish the Court of Auditors all the best. The Court of Auditors has reviewed the largest Tyrolean infrastructure project, the Unterinntaltrasse, over the years 2005 to 2009, and has critically shown that there has been a 13 percent cost excess. On the one hand, I say that there were reasons that could be influenced by these costs, on the other hand, there were challenges that were not predictable when it came to increasing and expanding safety regulations; there have been many tunnel accidents in recent years. Thus, safety equipment costs for this major infrastructure project have increased by € 175 million. A new radio system was also required. What has worked with signals so far needs to be controlled via radio in the future. This Unterinntaltrasse was integrated into ÖBB Infrastructure AG in 2008. This also gives us an additional controlling over the SCHIG, through the ÖBB revision, but also, of course, through the Austrian Court of Auditors and the European Court of Auditors. So in total, a report that shows things that we can gain from experience and take with us for future infrastructure projects when it comes to expanding the railway in Austria. What does the current image show in this project? – There is a stable development of costs - I think, even because of the support of the Court of Auditors - in some areas, fortunately, a slight decline. The schedule for commissioning shall be complied with. ==References== December 2012, was reported by the Managing Director of Herdina, can be observed. And from this point on, the heavy traffic can be handled with 220 km/h over the rail. In preparation is also planned the project “Brenner Base Tunnel”, from the exploration to the test stollen. The construction start is fixed for 2016. In preparation are also the access routes in Italy and Germany. Overall, it can be said that this Court of Auditors report contributes to the implementation of a European, an Austrian, but also a regional infrastructure project in such a way that we can provide the taxpayer with transparency and reliability. Thank you to the Court of Auditors for the critical presentation and for being able to take a lot from this report for future projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26912	Mr Ing. Hackl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26933	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The follow-up report for the Madrid and Lisbon embassies shows that it is very difficult to implement recommendations from the Court of Auditors, which are actually quite simple in nature. The Court of Auditors has recommended that all message reports be translated into the ELAK electronic file system – which normally cannot be a problem – and that there has been a decree from the Federal Ministry where the staff were asked to do so. The follow-up report now shows that the recommendation was only partially implemented, with a negative outlook: In 2008, 93 percent of these reports were in the system, and in 2009, it was only 80 percent. On my question to the Secretary of State in the Committee, what is to be done, the answer came: It is referred to this decree six months a year! – In the private sector there would be a slightly different tone and another procedure would be practised. The report on the permanent representation of Austria to the EU in Brussels has already been addressed twice; I have also looked through it and, of course, was also in the Committee. I have noticed a particular point, namely the staffing status of the Austrian military representation in Brussels, and I must say: This staff stand is huge! In 2009 it was 50 people. That was one of the largest military representations in Brussels at the time. Since I believe that Austria is a neutral country and not a military great power, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e26993	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is also being discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27058	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27079	Madam President. Mr President. 250 years of the Court of Auditors are really an occasion for congratulation, an occasion for recognition of the activity – not only of your personal nature, but of all employees in the Court of Auditors. I always have contact with Mrs Mag. Berger, whom I now mention. It has always tried very hard to exchange with Parliament and also with on-the-spot control. This anniversary of "250 years of Court of Auditors" will be held on the occasion of a report, which will not only discuss double-digit million amounts, such as the foreign representations in Brussels, but where we will even discuss three-digit million amounts, not just once, but twice. Point one: Three-digit millions of costs in the context of the Unterinntaltrasse project. Name: € 423 million; adjusted for value, it is 243 million. I mean, it seems to me like it – what does that mean? – “Daily greets the Murmeltier”, in film language. For infrastructure projects, it is usually the case that they are low and expensive to end. The “Unterinntaltrasse” project is another evidence of this. It has been promised improvement. I was also at the SCHIG, I also talked to the controlling office there. It means: In the future everything will become more realistic! Whether it will actually be so, you will check it, Mr President. I'm curious! The sense of the Unterinntaltrasse is an extra story. All right, regional transport needs to be served, on the other hand, the long-distance transport. What is essential is that the Tyroleans finally give their approval to the fact that it is also fully asserted on the road, so that we finally have a shift effect. I'm curious if it'll come that far. The Unterinntal is the one thing that exceeds costs, and the other is, of course, also the control of what the federal government puts on the table in three-digit million amounts – in concrete terms, I think, it was 595 according to the Court of Auditors’ report – for the appointment of services at ÖBB, the so-called public service services. And since the Court of Auditors did not criticise the first time – I stress: not for the first time – that it was completely unlawfully distributed at EU level, because there was no transparency and performance orientation. There is a lack of transparency, there is no evidence of what services are actually paid for, there is no quality control. And now, at last, what the Court of Auditors has criticized, what we have repeatedly put in requests and asked for, and what has always been the subject of the debate in the Committee, including the Committee on Transport, has finally been implemented, namely, a Treaty – Mrs Colleague, you But this concerns many people – between the SCHIG and the ÖBB instead of the BMVIT, that at last there is more transparency in the public services that we can order what we want from the ÖBB. This is a great progress, and I am grateful for it. It is about benefits, it is not subsidies, it is ordered and paid. My problem is only – and this, please, note, Mr President: How will the quality for which payment is made be checked in the future? That is the future task of the Court of Auditors, and I do not hope that the Court of Auditors will then need another 250th anniversary in order to fulfil this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27134	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27156	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! This report on the permanent representation of Austria to the EU in Brussels has it in itself. That is what my previous speakers have already mentioned. 24 recommendations were made by the Court of Auditors. – I would say that already speaks volumes. This report shows once again where the tax money is going, how tax money is worked and how tax money is reduced, ladies and gentlemen. Austria is far ahead in Europe when it comes to the number of employees in Brussels. The Court of Auditors has also rightly criticized the many different locations of representations and the insufficiently exploited synergies. It has already been mentioned that the representations in Brussels have a total of 219 employees. – This makes €25 million a year, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This number must really lead to contemplation and let it be broken on the tongue, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The social partners and stakeholders have already been addressed. Austria had a very special position here, so that these could also be found in the permanent EU representation. The Court of Auditors has made a number of recommendations. I would like to highlight a recommendation that I think is very plausible and that it is also important to implement, namely that, for reasons of economic efficiency, local staff should be employed in Brussels and that not, as is currently common practice, up to 13 members of staff from the ministerial offices of an EU Council of Ministers. There is no evaluation, no record, nothing about why these employees are travelling along, how many employees are travelling along and how much money that makes up. Because we're just on the subject of money: The Court of Auditors has also noted that ministerial offices simply did not collect € 109 000 from the EU for the cost of foreign service travel. Why? Because they have forgotten to make proposals on this matter, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. 109 000 € will be left to lie down. It's "only" tax money. This is a irrational policy, ladies and gentlemen, and we do not accept it in any way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Secretary of State in the Committee did not even know the answer to which ministries it was dealing, which did not require these € 109 000 in respect of which applications had not been submitted. Maybe that's still possible. The Secretary of State also announced that it would take the recommendations seriously, implement them, work on them. He has also shown efforts. I I think there is a great need for reform, a great need for action, and we will see what will be implemented and what it will look like at the end of the day. Finally, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors, Mr President, and your team, on the part of our group, very much for this detailed, very good report and, at this point, also our congratulations on the 250th anniversary of the Court of Auditors, which will take place this year. I thank you in general for the very good cooperation with us and with Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27222	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schickhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27243	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In order to be able to strongly represent Austrian interests, a strong and strong federal government needs, of course, strong and powerful permanent representation in the EU as well as in the major states of Europe. [[Abg. Singer: Reform Partnership!]] The Court of Auditors correctly points out that we must always think about acting more economically, economically and efficiently in order to enforce our interests. In the end, however, the number of employees cannot be met, because if you have to enforce interests towards a large state like Germany, you also need appropriate human resources to get involved. [[Abg. Singer: You are the Reform Partnership!]] Nevertheless, it is true that, of course, we must coordinate the institutions within Austria optimally in order to be able to act more closely. Finally, it is also our messages that help our Austrians in the case of crises such as now in the Middle East or in environmental disasters. Our messages help the Austrians. They are services for the citizens. A total of 300 000 consular acts have been carried out, and in the end, foreign Austrians – at least 500 000 – are optimally cared for by our embassies. 20 of the recommendations concerning the Permanent Representation have been implemented. Of course, the Court of Auditors has to be re-examined again and again, as can be seen from Madrid and Lisbon. There have been ten recommendations, only three have been fully implemented, five in part, two in no way at all. In particular, there are clear political objectives that this is also consistently pursued. There's been improvements. What is a whole problem is the real estate management, is the exploitation of any properties, but there have also been improvements. These problems have now been addressed and addressed. I think that's the right way. We need strong representations. Thank you to the Court of Auditors for helping us to make them even more powerful.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27291	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27315	Madam President. Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am dealing with the Court of Auditors' report on the federal government's public service. What benefits does the Federation pay for? He pays for low-cost time tickets, he pays for advantage cards. We all know this offer. The federal government pays for the provision of minimum train travel services in local and local transport, and it also pays for comfort features – for example, the level of entry. The total amount is € 591 million – the number is 2009 – and 92 percent of these have been transferred to the ÖBB, the rest of which is private railways. 70 percent were used for the financing of low-cost tickets, 20 percent for the charging of train kilometres. What does the Court of Auditors criticize? – The Court of Auditors notes that the federal government has the legal task of ensuring a basic supply of rail in passenger and regional transport. It is criticized that this question, which transport services constitute the basic offer, has not been clarified by BMVIT. The fact that BMVIT has known itself over years to limit funds for the remuneration of public services is also raised with the aim of increasing the pressure on rail rationalisation. In 2008 the total amount of funding was reduced by 19 percent, so that the total amount for the years 2000 to 2009 was increased by 19 percent. It was also criticised that BMVIT had no monitoring, no controlling, so that no detailed statements about the development of the offer and the use of the ordered services were possible. It was also criticized that the reduced tickets were not calculated according to the actual amount. In total, there is still a lot of work for the BMVIT. Finally, one point that has now been dealt with, namely: The public service contract with the ÖBB has been re-established. Mr President, Mr Moser, the Court of Auditors has again drawn up an informed report. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27364	Mrs Schönpass is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27385	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! My contribution to the debate relates to the sub-report “Project Unterinntaltrasse – Cost Forecasts”. This project has already been subject to an audit by the Court of Auditors in 2007. The new 2010 report now refers to a doubling of costs. 80 percent of the route is on tunnels, galleries and underfloors, which were also a concession to the surrounding population. This and the enormously increased raw material prices, such as steel, are the main cause of the increase in costs. According to the Managing Director of the Brenner Eisenbahn Gesellschaft, Mr. Herdina, who was available as an informant in the Committee, higher safety measures and specifications are also responsible for the cost increases due to some tunnel accidents in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, these cost increases are certainly not pleasing. However, it is positive that the Unterinntaltrasse should go into operation in December 2012. Mr President, I congratulate you on the successful documentation '250 years of the Court of Auditors. No matter what. Objective. Effective’. Everything good remains under the motto: “Control pays off!”
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27422	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27443	Madam President. Mr President. High house! As a representative of the Tyrolean Unterland, I am of course referring to the subject of Unterinntaltrasse. It was actually a surprise – a positive surprise – that the sub-inntal trasse per se in the Committee has been disputed across parties. Of course, the focus of criticism was on the construction cost overrun, but it was explained by President Moser and the competent head of the department Herdina in a transparent and plausible manner. Unfortunately, too often, even by the opposition parties, especially in Tyrol, when you look at the Tiroler Landtag, you will be happy to forget that the Unterinntaltrasse, this first phase of construction, which is still being completed, is part- and access track for the Brenner base tunnel. And it is already surprising that especially the Greens in Tyrol, including the Liberals – the BZÖ is thanks to God not represented in Tirol in the Landtag, and so it will remain – are then again against the Brenner base tunnel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber]] You have to say that you can't pick up the raisins from the cake and say, Unterinntaltrasse is good, Brenner base tunnel is bad. Because where are we now? We are just before the end of the second construction phase. As a result – the Brenner base tunnel is to be completed in 2025, at the same time as the second part of the construction in the sub-country, in my native region, from Radfeld/Kundl towards the Bavarian border – that now 15 years of increased traffic on this railway route is to be recorded at the beginning of December 2012. The Federal Railways are planning to increase the number of trains from 385 to 430 trains by December 2012, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to increase the speed from 200 to 220 km/h in about three and a half minutes. Now, in this area between Kundl/Radfeld and the border, effective measures are needed quickly, especially in the area of Breitenbach, where the existing noise protection wall has to be closed, and in the area of the Kundl municipality, where we also need efficient noise protection; with noise protection windows it is not done. It would be my appeal to the competent Minister responsible for the department to act quickly and effectively in the interests of the population. Of course, there are also in the area of angath and long-term struggles, where an open route guide is also planned to make adjustments and improvements. It is thanks to the Court of Auditors who has just referred to these miscalculations and construction costs, that this is no longer happening in the second section, especially in the Brenner base tunnel, that we are going to do the best and take the population on board, just as it was exemplary in the first section, so that we can make this great, so important – for the People so important! – Project Brenner Base Tunnel and Unterinntaltrasse can be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27491	Mr Prehauser. I wish to set the clock to 2 minutes; Total residence time would be 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27528	Mr President, Dr. Moser! High house! 250 years have passed from the Court of Auditors to the Court of Auditors: 250 years independent, objective and effective. “Independent”, “objective” – this is different from the view of the respective party or political group, which bears the responsibility, from the point of view of the opposition. And “effective” can be measured by how the following reports look, for example, whether the same concerns come again, yes or no. Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Moser on this ceremony on the 250th anniversary. The list of the leading personalities of the past was an extension of knowledge for me and, I believe, for all those who have read it. But I come now to talk about the effectiveness and I just want to take out one example because it is so obvious and so simple, namely the non-renting of an apartment or a spare house, but the rental into a hotel for € 65 000 or € 67 000. This may be favourable to the first sight. If you divide this through 600 days and assume that Saturdays, Sundays and holidays have been there, that would be about 110 €. However, if you compare what you could have rented there instead – and the Republic of Brussels has had an empty building from the area of defence – you have the impression that the funds are not handled with care. What we should achieve together is that in future institutions that manage taxpayers' money manage them as if they were their own resources. One would have to ask the ambassador whether, if that were his property, he would have been looking for a hotel or would have gone a different way. But I also believe that the Lord Ambassador certainly did not act without the knowledge of his place of business. Therefore, one should not accuse individuals, but jointly perceive, work out and prevent shortcomings in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27561	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27583	Madam President. High house! I would like to thank you for the positive mood that is being met in Austria. This is also reflected in the fact that, in a very intense debate on the agenda item on the Court of Auditors, there have now been 13 speeches and that on the one hand, the Court of Auditors' recommendations have been referred to and the speakers have also expressed their support for the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations. "250 years" is at the same time an order for the Court of Auditors according to the motto: You can only make the future positive if you observe the past and live after it in the present. That's what the Court of Auditors is doing. Accordingly, the fixed text, which has already been quoted by Mrs Lapp as the first, has been put under the motto: Yesterday-today tomorrow. And that this has also been achieved – as Mrs Schönpass has said – is seen in the positive contributions, which have been written by many personalities from politics, science and business, and which we have partly published in this celebration. A sign of the importance of the Court of Auditors not only in Austria, but also internationally, also shows the greetings of the Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon, who has also thanked the Austrian Court of Auditors for the leadership of the General Secretariat and for the fact that it contributes to the implementation of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and BZÖ.]] In this direction, an event will also take place next week at the UN building in Vienna – in turn together with the United Nations and INTOSAI – with representatives of more than 80 billing courts and international organisations. The event will focus on bringing control to the public, which is also concerned with Parliament. The fact that control pays off also shows the following circumstances: In the reports on today's agenda, there are also some follow-up reviews: This shows that out of 29 recommendations except for five all have been implemented or are in implementation. This is also an expression of the increasing effectiveness and seriousness of control. And this also shows your contributions related to the Unterinntal, which show your contributions regarding the Permanent Representation, where it has been announced that measures need to be put in place. However, this also shows, among other things, the recommendation in the School Book Action, where the Court of Auditors suggested that one million certificates of deposit have been issued in order to cancel the School Book Action Self-hold of around €22: This was also a recommendation made by the Court of Auditors and which has now been implemented. I would like to thank and hope that the next 250 years of control in Austria will also fall on such a positive, prosperous ground. Thank you for working together! I can assure you that the Court’s motto “Independent.Objective.effective” is our motto, and then we live. That is why we will also try to fulfill this commission that we have given ourselves. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27647	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. No final word will be desired. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the present report of the Court of Auditors Series Bund 2010/10, III-175 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the present report of the Court of Auditors Series 2010/9, III-172 of the Supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, colleagues, on the termination of the Federal Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Agriculture and the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, fellow Members, on the expediency of effective supervision by the Head of Permanent Representation in Brussels. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, fellow Members, on the reduction in the staff level of the Austrian military representative in Brussels. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:33:36]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-06-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00112_d8e27744	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1615/A(E) to 1624/A were tabled at today's meeting. Question No 8958/J to 8979/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 7. July 2011, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed at the meeting room. This meeting is closed.
