ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4479	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 130. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 128 and 129. Meeting of 28. In October 2011, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported to be Grossruck, Grillitsch, Ing. Hofer and Dr. Van der Bellen. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4510	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is represented by the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Maria Fekter. I announce that the ORF will transfer the current hour and the current European hour from 9.05 a.m. to 11.30 p.m. to ORF 2. Furthermore, ORF III will transfer the session live and in full length. [[09:06:22]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4548	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Child protection instead of perpetrator protection, Mrs. Justice Minister!” First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4575	Madam President. Mrs. Karl! Ladies and gentlemen! Child protection instead of the protection of perpetrators is unfortunately still not enforced by God in our country. For a few months now, we have been confronted again and again with new shocking cases of child abuse and child abuse. These cases cannot be left unmoved by any person in Austria who also carries a spark of compassion. At this point it is remembered that Wilhelminenberg Children's Home has become a synonym for the inhumanity of children. There, violence and cruelty toward children were lived. This went to sexual abuse. Children have been enslaved there and have also been used for slave work. This is an indescribable scandal! Another scandal is that, although these accusations have been known since 1974, nothing has been done on this matter. As early as 1974, these inconceivable developments in the children's homes were shown by former SPÖ member Irmtraut Karlsson in her report, in which she then carried out that 14 of those years are children's prisons in Vienna. That's what she called it at the time. There will be some further clarification, because of course you wonder: How can it be that, although a Member has already made reference to these abuses in 1974, nothing has been done in this matter so far? But did you learn from it? – Unfortunately, God does not, because still children’s scars in Austria are touched with velvet gloves. This can be seen, for example, in the current case of a convicted child’s moustache, who has been guilty of a child for over five years, but only had to be sentenced for two years. There is already a question of the ratio in which the level of punishment for child abuse stands in their action. In this case, it is added that this criminal was given half of his sentence with electronic footbands at home. This is an inconceivable scandal that is currently taking place in Austria! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] This child shame was allowed to leave prison last Wednesday, although what this man has done is not a slight offense, for he has been guilty of his daughter for over five years from the age of nine, sexually abused and abused his daughter. He also appeared in a Vienna park and sat there for children. He also harassed his stepdaughter sexually. The fact that such a person is sentenced to two years in prison is in itself immense, that no citizen in Austria can understand and does not understand anyone, that is incomprehensible, that this offender is allowed to spend the second year of his imprisonment at home with an electronic footband after a year of imprisonment, is absolutely incomprehensible. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the BZÖ]] At this point, I would like to express my express thanks to Mr Christian Lauschbehren, who has revealed this case and forwarded it to the media, because it is important that such cases are not kept under the cover. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] This case shows how to deal with sexual offenders in our country – and that must be stopped! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister of Justice and her chief officials have been trying to find excuses for the release of this child's leg by foot, but there can be no excuses there. I would like to point out at this point that a binding committee has been adopted unanimously in connection with the law on electronically monitored house arrest, that is, by all the parties in this House. This finding states that electronic supervision for persons who have committed a crime against sexual self-determination can only be considered in rare cases, if at all. In all cases, the interests of the victims must be taken into account and should be taken into account in the sense of general prevention. But that is what has clearly not been followed in this case! This committee statement has not been taken into account in the present case, and Mrs Minister should, please, not address her officials, as she has done so far, but at last act by ministerial decision. It is up to you, Mrs Minister for Justice, to be here. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] They have all the means in their hands to reverse the release of this child's leg. You, Mrs Minister, can establish this committee. not so easy to wipe from the table, it has been decided by all parties in the judicial committee, and you should follow it and also take action. The fact that a child shroud can leave the prison prematurely by foot is in itself a terrible and completely false signal. You have to ask yourself: What kind of signal is that? – For years now, we have been discussing the criminal framework for various crimes here in the House, and it has been asked again and again by the Liberal Group, but also by other opposition parties: What signals are there? Whoever commits to the weakest members of our society, our children, who commits to children, cannot receive such immense minimum punishments! That's something you really can't understand. It must continue to be monitored if it is to be released so that such acts cannot be committed again. We know from various statistics and assessments that unfortunately many perpetrators in this area will fall back. The victims of such perpetrators suffer for life from the mental wounds that have been committed to them. There must be no false temper against such perpetrators! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] During the current legislative period, the liberals have tabled six motions for resolutions calling for stricter criminal law in the event of child abuse. This also includes the possibility of imposing a life-long imprisonment on those who have forced unmistakables to fall asleep in particularly serious cases. Such acts often destroy the lives of the affected children completely, these victims suffer for a lifetime, and it cannot be that the perpetrators have to go to prison for only a short time and then do not rarely repeat their odious crimes. I admit, I don't understand that! What must be done in a person who is capable of such incredible acts that happen to children who resort to children, to the weakest of our society, and who also abuse them sexually? There's every person wondering: What kind of monster is that? You don't want to understand such a monster at all, but I want at least that such monsters can't walk around freely in our society and that there is such a mildness for them in criminal law. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I want such animals to meet the full hardness of the law. Whoever commits to defenseless children does not deserve to be an accepted part of our society, it does not deserve to give him the opportunity to give him permanent reasons why he has become such a beast. It is necessary to ensure that such persons are quickly removed from the market for the protection of our youngest ones, even permanently removed from the market. Such people are locked away, and if it requires the severity of the fall, it is also locked away for life! We experience things in these areas again and again, evidenced by different cases, which give you the impression that there is a certain network in Austria, where one understands child abuse. And that's not what it can be! It belongs to this area at last through-breeded. In the same way, in the youth prosecutorships, the employees are constantly – I say: quite critically – to take a look at them, because we really have to do everything in this area to protect our children. It cannot be that, when cases arise, where in youth homes, in various areas of cruelty have happened, one is not prepared to explain it fully and without any rest. There is still a need to improve some of the legislation, as it is felt that it is not the case that the protection of victims is at the forefront, but that it is the first thing to do. Some perpetrators are living in this country, having a certain understanding of such animals. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] We have no understanding of such animals, we want to know our children protected! And we ask you, Minister of Justice, to ensure in the one case that this perpetrator is arrested again. And we ask you to ensure that not such a mildness can exist from the law as it is currently the case. We demand that all cases be cleared up without delay and that we finally re-adjust the laws, because it is time to do so. Every citizen expects us to make such improvements at last. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister of Justice, for this is in all our responsibility – and I am convinced that you have no understanding of this, if such a case occurs, but perhaps have They have not had the information or have been informed too late; that can be anything. But you have it in your hand now to become active in retrospect and through your function to ensure that this perpetrator is arrested again.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4732	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Karl spoke in response to a preliminary statement. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4753	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's current hour underlines the importance of the child protection package, which was decided on my initiative in the Council of Ministers last week. With this package, we will create even more security for children, and I really fully recognise my responsibility to protect the weakest in our society from violent and sexual assaults. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In addition to informing that physical violence is neither legal nor a sensible means of education, criminal law must also provide for appropriate, proportionate and, above all, dissuasive sanctions. High house! In 2010 alone, a total of 522 cases of a body injury against an unmistakable victim were reported. In almost half of the cases, the children were even younger than ten years old. In addition, 153 convictions come for severe or sexual abuse of unmistakables. Of course, the dark figure is much higher in this area. Clearly, then, measures need to be taken which, on the one hand, clarify the injustice of such attacks on children and, on the other hand, strengthen prosecution. I am therefore glad that we are already in the next judicial committee on 22 February. In November 2011, a presentation was presented to strengthen criminal protection against violence and abuse, as well as to address new risks to children and young people. So, with the introduction or increase of the minimum penalties in the case of violent offences, I want to ensure that violence against children does not have a tolerance limit. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] There should therefore be a minimum penalty in the case of violent offences against children who are not yet subject to a minimum penalty. Where minimum penalties already exist, these minimum penalties are to be increased. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, three months!]] In addition, the possibility of an alternative fine for these offences is abolished. Furthermore, the use of violence against children should be considered as a particular source of difficulty. In addition, sexual contact with the unmistakable, the so-called grooming, is already to be punished. Whoever proposes a personal meeting or agrees with an unmistakable person in the intention to commit a sexual offence on her, and makes a specific preparatory action to carry out this personal meeting, is to be punished with a term of imprisonment of up to two years. In addition, the scientific consideration of a live broadcast of pornographic performances by minors via webcam on the Internet is also to be punished by a new criminal record. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These are, in fact, measures that are important and correct, just polemics and incitement, on the other hand, do not take us any further in this area. They only reinforce in the public the image of a lack of seriousness in the argumentation. [[Abg. New builder: You are missing! That's great!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, those who speak only here and alone of the protection of the perpetrator have either fallen asleep in the development in recent years or are only interested in incitement and in making fears believe that we can face these problems, in particular the problems of internal family violence and abuse, only with higher penalties. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me therefore briefly list what measures have been taken in recent years. New criminal offences have been repeatedly introduced in sex criminal law and criminal frameworks have been raised. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do not use anything if you release it again!]] The limitation period has also been gradually extended, so that the time is now up to the completion of the 28th century. Year of life should not be included in the limitation period. I would like to remind the Court of Justice of the call for the exclusion of the conditional dismissal of sexual abuse. If sexual offenders and sexually motivated violent offenders are discharged, they must therefore be ordered to provide compulsory probation aid. This will allow for closer and more intensive control, and of course certain instructions can also be provided for groups of perpetrators. In addition, the probation period was increased to five years in criminal acts against sexual integrity. Furthermore, we do not rely exclusively on the date of dismissal. Before any contact of a violent and sexual offender with the outside world, an opinion of the assessment and evaluation body for violent and sexual offenders shall be sought. In addition, the introduction of the preventive measure of a ban on activities in § 220b StGB allows certain groups of perpetrators to prohibit certain activities related to minors. The requirement for a longer trial and observation of sexual offenders also serves to extend the period of eradication, which is completely excluded in the case of particularly serious convictions, as well as the special information system on sexual offenders. From a study prepared in 2007, we know that in Austria there is no sign of a particular mildness, but, quite the contrary, a comparatively severe criminal practice in the field of sexual offences, which also has a tendency to intensify. Therefore, let us not pretend that society is unprotectedly extradited to sexual offenders. High house! On the current occasion mentioned by Klubobmann Strache, I may mention the following: The electronically monitored house arrest as an alternative form of criminal execution has proved its worth. We don't have any child motivating here. I think that here in this House should again rule the one that ruled at the time of the decision-making almost a year ago. The regulation on electronically monitored house arrest was adopted unanimously here in Parliament, including with the votes of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the 1st day of the year. In November 2011, 455 people had been arrested in the electronically monitored house arrest. [[Abg. Strache: But with the Committee's statement that this can't be a free letter for sexual offenders!]] At the end of the day, 148 people were detained in the house arrest. In only 22 cases – that is 5 percent – the house arrest was not continued until the release. A total of around 40,000 days of detention have already been spent in the electronically monitored house arrest, for which a total cost replacement of about € 350 000 has been required. So far, there have been no security-related incidents, such as escapes, or relevant technical problems. Of course, I also take this into account that our employees have been very well prepared in execution. I should like to say the following about the committee statement tabled by Klubobmann Strache: This Committee has also become the content of the adoption of the Executive Board for the introduction of the electronically monitored house arrest. I quote from point 1.2.7 of this decree on positive risk assessment: Before deciding on this form of performance, the conditions of residence, the social environment and any risk factors shall be examined against the background of such aspects as the risk of the person concerned, the nature and motivation of the occasion or earlier convictions, the current lifestyle and the chances of a fair future after detention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] In the case of persons who have been convicted of a criminal offence against sexual integrity or self-determination or against body and life or freedom, if this act has been committed in order to arouse or satisfy themselves, the assessment of any risk factors and the risk of misuse of this form of execution shall be carried out in advance by the assessment and evaluation body for violent and sexual offenders. Only if, after the outcome of this examination, it is considered that an abuse of the form of performance cannot be feared can the application be granted. This examination shall take into account the well-being of all persons living in the common household, in particular those who are not perceptive and judgmental, such as children, on their own account, regardless of the statements of consent. If the well-being were to be threatened only by a roommate or a roommate, an authorisation would have to be refused. - Quote. Of course, the Executive Board has also observed these requirements in the specific case and has decided on the basis of the applicable laws. As you know or should know, as Minister of Justice, I am unable to amend or withdraw this decision in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, not even by decision of the Minister, Mr Klubobmann Strache. Of course, the occasion has also caused us to think about it. However, I do not want to react in a reflective way with rapid shots, but through secure expert knowledge. That's why I commissioned an opinion from the renowned Innsbruck criminal law professor Dr. Schwaighofer. This order is about clarifying the legal possibilities to provide for certain exclusion grounds for the application of the penalty by electronically monitored house arrest. In particular, it is intended to examine the exception of certain crime groups, i.e. sexual offenders and offenders who have been sentenced for a deliberate murder offence. High house! The electronically monitored house arrest has proved successful so far. Persons who are at a particular risk for the abuse of this form of enforcement may already be excluded from the grant of an electronically monitored house arrest for a certain period of time by judicial decision. In addition, the in-depth examination of the risk of the person of the breachor and the abuse trend that he realizes, including the assessment and evaluation body for violent and sexual offenders, offers a high guarantee of the correctness of the decision, as demonstrated by the experience so far. But, of course, if something needs to be improved, we will also be involved. What you, ladies and gentlemen, want to do, however, is to spread fear and uncertainty against better knowledge. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] All of you – all of you! – have agreed a year ago to the current regulation, and now spread fear and uncertainty! Whether and what to improve should be done, we want to look at it on the basis of an objective and independent opinion and then discuss it here in all seriousness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: What about the evaluation?]] High house! I would also like to address the demand for strict advertising in the case of suspicion of child abuse and sexual abuse, with the widest possible involvement of expert knowledge. This knowledge of experts has not long been the result of the second anti-violence law's assessment, because the victim's perspective is to be given priority in this area of criminal law, especially in the field of criminal prosecution. I see no reason at present to revise this assessment. But also in this area, the Federal Government is facing its task of a matter-oriented policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4920	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4944	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, child protection has absolute priority. And no one working in child and youth work protects the perpetrators. I should like to make that clear. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Children need our protection, our care, our love, support, trust, in which we all agree, and it makes us very, very angry, to know and to know that children in their integrity are vulnerable to people who have no compassion, who view children as their property and do with what they want – and often in the closest family association. It is important to find solutions to this problem. I have recently been very intensive in contact with experts from the Federal Association of the Austrian Children's Protection Centres, centres that are contact points, provide assistance, provide support, which are confronted with infinity of suffering on a daily basis and whose priority is to protect children, to relieve sorrow and pain and to work out survival strategies with the affected children above all. I quote from the Preamble of this Federal Association: Legal bases and criminal provisions are important bases and levels of child protection work, but are always too short. Sustainable child protection also requires further measures in the areas of family and gender policy, as well as good cooperation between public youth welfare and NGOs. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is to be supported. And there is a list of claims of this association, which, among other things, provides for the establishment of a state and independent commission of victims. Our proposal is to settle these at the People's Procuratorate. Furthermore, the introduction of a criminal record of cyber-grooming, increasing resources for children’s process support, a uniform law on children’s and youth assistance, resources for more research and projects, and ensuring the funding of child protection centres. All these are demands to be supported. Ladies and gentlemen! Violence has many faces, and these faces have to go to the ground: How does violence come about as a whole? What dependencies are there? Are violent experiences passed on from generation to generation? Which alarm signs are sent out? How do I know how each one of us recognizes violence? And where is civil appeal sought? – Questions that need to be clarified and answered, because, and there I am with many one opinion, the solution will not be: lock away, and with that the thing is done! I am also concerned to point out that often out of overload, helplessness, and ignorance parents become handy to use violence. This is not to be apologised, ladies and gentlemen. I quote Mrs. Beclin from the "Standard" issue of 14. November: “There’s nothing to apologize for once parents become hand-in-hand.” And: “As a rule, the adults who are difficult to overcome are the ones who make intuitive actions. Those affected are unable to control themselves in a particular situation. There you can’t be deterred with a threat of punishment anyway.” It goes on to say: “Not the children take away, but a accompanying educational aid.” – A focus that should be very, very important to all of us to offer accompanying assistance. It is about, ladies and gentlemen, that violence cannot grow and arise at all. It is about the victims, the children getting prospects for the future life and for the future. A draft for further improvements to the protection of children is here in Parliament, and the Committee's task is to design and develop the best possible way of protecting children after good and proven manners with experts from the field of justice and practice. Coming to the end: Ladies and gentlemen! In her song “Children, ” Bettina Wegner sings in a verse: “Are so small souls, open and quite free. May one never be tormented, go broke.” – Violence must have an end. Let's work together without polemics!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5032	Next, Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5054	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There is, I believe, no doubt that violence against children, even sexually motivated violence, sexual abuse is one of the most hideous crimes one can imagine, and that for multiple reasons: on the one hand, because in these crimes the helplessness, often also the naïveness, the credulity, the good faith of our children in people who are friendly to them, the innocence of children are taken advantage of in particular, and on the other hand, these acts, these crimes are also particularly reprehensible and repudiate, because they cause terrible consequences to the victims, to the children, and they often fail to deal with them for many years or decades, and sometimes their lives. These acts therefore destroy the lives of other people on a sustainable and often permanent basis. Therefore, precisely because of the particular vulnerability of our children and young people, I believe is perfectly clear and should be undisputed that everything must be done to prevent such crimes and to help the victims in every way possible. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also our concern. We, the Austrian People's Party, have pursued this very goal in the past, even in recent years, and will continue to pursue it with all vehemence and consistency in the future. And so, as the Minister of Justice has already mentioned, new, additional measures have been adopted and implemented over the last few years. The threats to sexual offences against children or child pornography have been greatly increased. The limitation periods were more than doubled. In these cases, the limitation period will only begin with the completion of the 28th. Year of life of the victim at all and continues for 20 years in the most serious cases. New offences have been created, which has also made technical progress necessary because new forms of crime have occurred; Keywords: Internet. And it was significantly increased the probationary period in sexual offences, i.e. to five years. Furthermore, as mentioned today, sexual offenders and sexually motivated violent offenders have introduced compulsory probation aid and have also been given the opportunity to commit them to treatment even after the end of their criminal detention. These are important measures to have a means of monitoring, influence, and thus significantly reduce and minimise the likelihood of relapse even after the execution of the criminal offence – I think it is important to say that too. Finally, together with the Second Anti-Violence Act two years ago, we created the possibility to impose a ban on certain professions or on voluntary activities involving children. And the conditions for a sexual criminal file have been created that allows information on relevant convictions. By the way, all these laws, which are important for the protection of children, were supported here by all five parties and thank God for being good and correct. There is also a new initiative – and the Minister of Justice has presented her current initiative today – to implement further measures, such as the introduction of sanctions or the creation of new opportunities for a child-friendly witness survey. This is also particularly important in order to enable effective persecution at all. Only then, when the children as victims and thus as witnesses, often as the only witnesses of such an abuse, are moved to provide useful information, is it at all possible to condemn such a perpetrator at all. That is why this measure is also a very, very important measure. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, despite all the imaginable measures we have taken in the past and which we will perhaps also take together in the future, crimes, and if they are still so repugnant, still so repugnant, will not be prevented by law alone, even by criminal law. Despite these dissuasive measures, legal rules, prevention strategies that I have mentioned, there is a need for further action to protect our children effectively. So it is important to point out and prepare children very early on, to encourage them to say no. And it is important to point out to civil society that looking and not looking away is in demand – that is not to say, cheap abuse of unloving fellow citizens, but very much attention and care for signs and suspicions. And that also means: In any case, do not turn away, but turn to and ask or report to the competent authorities, youth office or police. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Instead of just being afraid of polemics and political populism, we help to offer solutions! It's worth it anyway. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5109	Mr Fichtenbauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5130	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The twin sister of the case law is the error of justice – and there can be no reasonable doubt that the decision of the execution director for the perpetrator named by Klubobmann Strache was an error, a gross error! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was a direct violation of the decree. The adoption is clearly based on the resolution adopted by all five parties. So, and now we get the answer, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you can't do anything there and that everyone should know that you can't do anything, and that the liberals only want to do tedious populism. - That's not how it is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's not how it is! You should also know, Mrs Bundesminister, that, in the absence of the basis of decision, which clearly consisted in the fact that this person was safe and could be put on foot by him, but then the opposite of this assumption, there was a continuation of the decision-making base and therefore a new decision to be made and that this person should be brought back into prison again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where are we in this Republic?- Oh, my God! This is indeed the system of a kind very much appreciated by the ÖVP – recent dates, today, to read on orf.at online, with reference to the promise of the head of state Platter of the 15th century. August to send compensation to victims of abuse in private homes: Today, everyone got a letter that it's nothing with compensation. – So far to the state noise that the ÖVP has often conjured in these matters. Don't let it go, you know, with the presentation of experts around, because: [[demostratetive appeal to the FPÖ]] If that were true, you could rely on it, then there would not be the numerous individual cases! And now a little bit strongly expressed, but: It has the Cain and it has nothing at all from the Luca that he is now referred to as a pitiful individual case in a otherwise functioning system. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] It must be recognized – something that is also expert knowledge – that sexual offenders are not resocialisable! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] I am now saving myself from entering the genetic and mental malformations of these people, but one must also go on to provide hard truths with hard answers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have put nine motions for resolutions on the part of the Liberals, which are aimed at the protection of the victims and the prosecution of the perpetrators, and the protection of the victims is against the protection of the perpetrators. All of them have, of course, been rejected. But at some point you will not get around a hard core in any composition of this House, that is the use of the chemical castration that is quite practiced in other countries. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So a non-resocialising culprit type, which is released from the children after a certain period of imprisonment, cannot really be a future-looking concept. So if you try to dissuade us, the liberals, because we are in favour of the protection of children, the protection of children from sexual offenders and we want to persecute the perpetrators, we should be right, because the people know on which side they have to stand in this context. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as your announced initiative for further action in the field of violence is concerned, we recognise positive signals in it and will not prevent a positive cooperation towards law enforcement, quite the contrary, we will be very active in it. But otherwise, please: All more than inappropriate party political aggressions are spared, which should not be related to child protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5252	It is now coming, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5273	Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that sexual offences are serious interventions that bring life-long suffering to those affected. That's not a bagatelle. It must be said that this was unfortunately seen differently 20, 30, 40 years ago. And it is clear that Parliament must do everything it can to protect those affected. Unfortunately, it is also a subject that is very often misused in order to create political change. And this debate is just like a case of instrumentalization and abuse, because exactly what you are scanning, ladies and gentlemen from FPÖ, you decided a year ago, namely the framework conditions when the electronic house arrest is to be applied. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, yes!]] [[Abg. The Committee's position does not prevent abuse as much as the Minister for Justice!]] Mr Strache said there was a committee. That's right, but: Every junior learns that a committee statement cannot alter the content of a law. The framework conditions are laid down in the law. The Committee's view is intended to be interpreted. The Committee notes that ‘in rare cases only’. Nothing can be won for the individual case. If You would have wanted sexual offenders not to be able to get out of prison through the electronic house arrest, then you should have said that clearly at the time and then you should not have agreed to the law text. [[Abg. That's what we said! We said that!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But you did that, and with that you are scandalizing something you have to answer for. Point two: I looked at exactly what you did back then. I actually expected that there would have been at least one FPÖ amendment. But there was no such one: No amendment that should have changed the framework of this law! – I say something to you: You were either naïve because you believed, with the committee statement it can be prevented, lazy, or you are not interested. That's how it looks! Now you have found a theme where you can scandalize and put on emotions. [[Abg. Strache: So you're really running culprit protection! The perpetrators have really grown to their heart, I have the impression!]] But this is unscrupulous, and it is noticed that the FPÖ is not well removed from child protection. [[Abg. Strache: You're really the culprit! The culprit par excellence standing out there!]] But the same is the case with Wilhelminenberg. [[Abg. Strache: Cohn-Bendit, who has outlawed children!]] I can still remember, ladies and gentlemen, how we discussed abuses and sexual violence in the institutions of the Church institutions a year and a half ago, and we already called for a state education for sexual violence in church institutions, but also in homes. [[Abg. Strache: The mind of Cohn-Bendit accompanies you permanently!]] There's nothing from you but mock and mock. I can remember exactly: No support! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now, a year and a half later, wake up and theme the Wilhelminenberg. I would have liked your support at the time – one of the rare cases where I would have liked the support of the FPÖ – but I was lonely here and pleaded for a government commission. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the FPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the present case: It is also wrong to claim that this sexual offender would now run free. The electronic house arrest knows clear conditions. Under certain conditions, one can come out, including a risk forecast – and in the present case, the sex offender assessment centre has considered the electronic home arrest to be permissible. If you doubt this attestation, on this opinion, then go out and explain why you doubt! But here you remain guilty of any argument. But now, Mrs. Justice Minister, to you: You can't do it as easily as you do! They're trying to swim somewhere. So now you're behind the decision of your officials, or are you not behind it? You leave that completely open. I expect a minister to support her either the decision of the officials who articulates – or else, if she sees it differently. To say: We're going to look at this, that's too little for me in this regard. Your child protection package is not enough either. You can always talk about increasing criminal frameworks, but it always stops when the crime has happened. Child protection must start sooner. I'll tell you where the central problem is: All crimes as a whole mean that there is a dark rate of around 90 percent, that is, only ten percent of the crimes are even displayed. Of these ten percent in turn, only a quarter lead to condemnation. That is, when we talk about increasing the criminal framework, we talk about 2.5 percent of all sexual offences! This means that you are very, very far away from the protection of children, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll tell you what we need: We need to see that we prevent crimes and recognize them in time, we need to train teachers and parents on the recognition of these, we need to train children to know what they can do in a situation when they become victims of a sexual offence. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to invest in such measures, this would cost a state of the size of Lower Austria €500 000 a year. This would be well-invested money and the most efficient blow against violence against children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5422	Mr Ing. Westenthaler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5444	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, you said – I listened very well to your remarks – that it is important to you that the appropriateness of the penalties in the criminal code be taken into account accordingly. Mrs Minister, out of the rage of countless scandalous judgments about child abuse, I have taken out only one example because it is so dramatic, namely: ==References== April 2011 this year, a man was brought to trial in Salzburg, a 61-year-old who spoke and wrote in nine years' time! – between 2000 and 2009, three minor girls, a five-year-old and two nine-year-old, have passed through several times. The prosecution accused him of severe sexual abuse of these three girls. This man made a remorseful confession and confirmed the charge point by point. Judgment, result: 20 months of imprisonment – due detention! – and €1 920 fine. Mrs. Minister! Is that the appropriateness of judgments?- Oh, my God! – I think it is a scandal to be able to pronounce such a judgment! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. That's what the Minister of Justice defends! She's behind this justice!]] Mrs Minister, this is just an example of countless scandalous judgments. And there one cannot even blame the judges or the courts, but the law that allows such judgments to take place at all! That's the scandal! And that's what it's for. She is responsible, Mrs. Minister, for punishing property offences more severely in this country than sexual abuse of children. That's the real scandal! I say to you, Mrs Minister: You must finally wake up and send a clear signal that murder of child souls is also equated with intentional physical murder in the Criminal Code. That is ultimately what we demand! Lifelong consequences! The victims are traumatized, the victims have lifelong consequences – but the perpetrators are not! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Minister, a few more figures because They spoke of zero tolerance and said there should be no tolerance to sexual offenders: Between 2006 and 2010 – this is not about the shackles at all, but about the total numbers – 464 sexual offenders were released in advance. 29 of them fell back! – Now can They say: It's not much anyway. – 29 more fates in families. 29 other children who have been sexually abused owe this to you and a justice, the sexual offenders completely unfounded – and I say this to you: for no reason! – released in advance. This is a misinterpreted tolerance that we see here, Mrs. Minister! Or a second number: [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] In 2006, 570 convictions were made for sexual offences. By the year 2010, 22 percent of these 570 sexual offenders were sentenced again, Ms. Minister. Condemned again! And now, here and here, you've got to put some backband clothes from the SPÖ with folded hands, you have to treat people, you have to give them a second chance. - Who gives the victims a second chance, Mrs. Minister? Nobody gives you a second chance! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] We have been doing for years – for years! – Proposals, and several Justice Ministers have already been sitting in your place and have not implemented them. And if you come out today and think what you put on the table, do something, I'll tell you: It does nothing as long as you do not even understand the children as a particularly protective group in the criminal code, as is the case in other areas! That there is a distinction in the Criminal Code – and that exists! – between § 206 and 207 – Ms Minister, look at this! – “Sexual abuse of unmistakables” and “serious sexual abuse of unmistakables” is in itself a scandal. We believe that any sexual abuse of minors is difficult – and not easy and not medium – and therefore has to be treated hard, Mrs. Minister! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Just like § 92 – Qualen von Unmündigen –: Look at this! It is a scandal that quails of unmistakable people with death as the highest penalty do not have “life-long” but ten years, Mrs. Minister! Ten years of highest punishment if today an unmistakable or even an disabled person is tortured to death – this is a scandal in our criminal law, which you too have to answer! That's why we say: No excuse for children's asses! Yes, there are some 20,000 cases, and there is much more in the area of darkness, and therefore we also need an advertising obligation. Stop looking away! Advertisement! Whoever doesn't show, makes himself punishable, too, we finally have to define that. [[BZÖ and FPÖ representatives are welcome.]] There must be no limitation, there must be a doubling of the penal frameworks! Mrs. Minister, you have a lot to do here. What you have put on the table is a first, tiny step, but no reform, no deterrence. You have a lot to do here, and we ask you to do so urgently!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5539	Mr Jarolim has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5563	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, it is really unfortunate that what we have actually expected has occurred again that you have a really extremely important topic – and it is probably no one can say that anyone here in the house is not particularly concerned with the well-being of the children – in such an disgusting way. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Protect the perpetrators!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Why don't you guys do anything?]] [[Abg. You're on the brake!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a joke that is presented there! Swirl around again and again! There's nothing going on! Always find a reason!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is embarrassing, and I believe that just the spectators at home behind the screens have the right to obtain appropriate information, but not absolute inconsistencies, Mr Westenthaler. I can't do anything for you to be pre-punished, but obviously every time it comes to justice, you come out here and carry out something that is wrong, is obnoxious, is upset, and is simply aimed at bringing here indifference to the people. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Better punished and used for children than not pre-punished and used for perpetrators!]] And we deeply reject that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They know very well that when a child is tormented and killed, it is charged with murder and, if it is a murder – and it is usually – it is also condemned, and it is too “life-long”. Why do you disinform the population in this irresponsible way? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 20 months due! I congratulate you! A “tolles” judgment!]] You know very well that the child within the criminal law is a particularly protected person, that the judges also apply it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where? Where?]] Why do you explain the opposite here? – This is inconvenient and objectionable. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important that we improve the protection of children – no question at all! I am against the fact that it is said here that we have not already done everything we can here. And the last package of violence against violence in the family, violence against children, violence against women has shown its success. We are discussing today the next package presented by the Minister of Justice, which continues in this direction. It is simply not honest, it is not fair. This is not what children and women deserved in general to protect themselves against violence. [[Abg. Strache: Look at the cases of scandalous judgments!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress what Mr Donnerbauer said. Unfortunately, it is God’s way that violence often occurs in the family, and in many of these cases the perpetrators are persons who were even exposed to such sexual violence. It really needs to break through. [[Abg. Strache: The violence in red children's homes in Vienna!]] But it is unfortunately God's way – that has already been said – that only 5 to 10 percent of all of these cases are really revealed, even really come to court, ladies and gentlemen! The parole therefore reads as follows: Don't look away, but look! and that's an appeal to all of us. It can't be that we don't want to see anything in our environment. It's often fathers, they're often mothers watching. Recently, an American family judge has been outraged over Facebook, who has beaten his daughter for ten minutes with a belt. 15 years after this has happened, it has now come out and should now be presented as a breeding measure that is in order. If such a thing happens, ladies and gentlemen, then it is our obligation to disclose this too. Privacy does not stop at the border with violence. When we hear noises from the neighboring apartment – I know it is unpleasant, and many of us have inhibitions – we owe it to the children, we owe it to society that these cases are highlighted. There are many institutions, youth protection institutions, where one can announce one’s perceptions, where it is handled very carefully. The children can then be removed from the family and protected. That is what is necessary! [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Worm.]] We will not win anything if we double, triple the penalties, but we need to make them more efficient. And they will become more efficient when there is more condemnation where criminal acts have taken place. Just bringing 5 to 10 percent of cases to court, ladies and gentlemen, is too little! [[Abg. May. Stadler: If the prosecutors look away?- Oh, my God!]] Unfortunately, God also occurs – and we have to work on it – that one case or another is revealed to the prosecutor's office, to which police are brought, but is then recruited, and no human being really knows why. This is a social problem that we must work on. I don't think it's just that you can say that justice should do something, we just have to increase the penalties. Unfortunately, not all the problems have been resolved, otherwise there would be no violence at all in America, for example. There's the death penalty, and it doesn't work. The social precept, that is, the self-grooming for children, with which each one of us has to deal, that is what we need. The legal framework for this is clearly being improved. As Mrs. Minister has already said, in the future, for example, the start of sexual contacts through the Internet, the word cyber-grooming, which happens again and again, will be punishable. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: I'm looking at that!]] That means there's going to be a corridor set before the kids. Forces abroad will also be persecuted in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That is to say, in the future we will be faced with crimes that have taken place abroad if they have been committed by Austrian or Austrian residents. This is an efficient development, and therefore, Madam Minister, I think we are on a good path here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5762	Mrs Steibl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5783	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to underline the statement of our Federal Minister Beatrix Karl, who said: There must be no tolerance when it comes to violence against children. Every attempt must be suffocated in the germ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever exploits the weakness and innocence of children will not escape a severe punishment in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Rosary: future!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: When is “future”?]] [[Abg. Strache: But to this day it is obvious! Still today!]] I think this is an important approach. I would now like to come to a point which Mr Westenthaler has made, namely the obligation to display. In 1998, the medical prescription in the Medical Law was converted into an authorisation for the medical profession. [[Abg. May. Stadler: An authorisation is not a duty!]] In other words, an advertisement can be kept, but not the reporting obligation to youth welfare providers, and that is, I believe, the most important thing. The draft Council of Ministers for a second Novel Law on the Protection of Violence also provided for an extension towards the obligation of advertising, and also in the discussion of the presentation of the Youth Welfare Act- new there was this approach. However, the review procedures have shown that a further intensification of the advertising obligation has been strictly rejected by the experts in a large majority of the opinions. If you talk to the experts, to the social workers, to the children's and youth lawyers, you will learn that they believe that an intensification of the advertising obligation is a populist measure that, although plausible for the population, will ultimately not be the appropriate means to make child abuse difficult or prevent it! Social workers and youth and child lawyers rely on caution, on detection, however, which takes time, and primarily on protection for children. And that, I think, is the most important thing. It has already been carefully addressed by my previous speakers that the assurance of proof is important, because most of the offences are unfortunately in the family area and are deliberately not indicated because one is afraid to throw the father, the uncle or anyone in trouble. Victims are afraid of the conflict. That also says – I think yesterday in the “standard” – the criminalist Katharina Beclin. Important in this context is the process support, which is far too little spoken of. The process accompaniment is not only an important point in the negotiation status, but should, in part, be used in advance, in the first suspicion, so to speak. In this context, a draft was also sent to the Health Committee concerning the possibility of breaking the professional secrecy of doctors. This will also address, as it were, the problem of “spital tourism” and child abuse. If we discuss it, then – I would like to say that – it should be very careful. It is therefore important to me to say in the direction of Mr Westenthal: If a colleague from our ranks here is perhaps speaking carefully with a little more beautiful words about this issue, because she also addresses it from experience, and then you say that she is a hind-belt-dresser, then I would like to ask you to think about what you are. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The beautiful words of the children's shame are already on my nerves!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm correcting: She's a back-reader!]] Summary: For us in the ÖVP with Federal Minister Beatrix Karl are victim protection, child protection, the well-being of our children the highest good, and that will also be so in the future. We will protect children and not perpetrators in the future, as we have done up to now.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5898	Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5920	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First: Mrs Federal Minister, you lied to the House in your statement! You have said that if even the sex offender service has only minor concerns, there is no foot shackles. – Mrs Federal Minister, in the present case there were concerns. There were three comments from this assessment body, which have been more drastic from time to time. In the last opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection of the European Communities, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Here we go! And all this will be turned from you under the carpet!]] With this, Mrs. Federal Minister, this perpetrator is excruciating – and yet he has got the electronic footbands. [[Abg. That's a joke!]] And You stand here, Mrs. Federal Minister, and you say it's all right. [[Abg. That's the joke, that's why the Minister of State is behind it!]] That's the true scandal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They protect the perpetrators with willing support from the Greens and the SPÖ. The perpetrators are protected, and the victims are forgotten. There have already been numerous individual cases, Mrs. Federal Minister, one could tell about individual cases for hours, but I will come back to something that our Klubobmann mentioned at the beginning of the debate, namely the cases in the public institutions such as at the Wilhelminenberg at the time, but also two years ago in the August Aichhorn House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happened, Mrs. Federal Minister? Where have the perpetrators been imprisoned? – Everything has been turned under the carpet. The victims have been made the perpetrators, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] I say to you: Member of the Commission at the time was former President of the City School Council Dr Kurt Scholz. This one was disassembled by your SPÖ because he wanted to clarify these cases. A teacher who was employed there has been terminated because he wanted to clarify these cases. The coat of silence has been laid on it. There is not a single conviction in this area. Instead, we form commissions, expert commissions for the protection of victims, occupied by those rulers who also sat on the board of the August Aichhorn House. [[Abg. I know what you're thinking. That's unheard of!]] For example, on the board of the August Aichhorn House was sitting – that has system, thank you. [[Abg. That's the system!]] Dr. Jesionek, President of the White Ring, President of the Möwe, is a member of the Victim Protection Commission. Dr. Werner Leixnering, who was a board member in August Aichhorn House, is also represented in the Victim Protection Commission. It is precisely these rulerships that protect the perpetrators on the one hand and make the victims appear unbelievable on the other. Let me say something to Dr. Leixnering: This gentleman is today in the Wagner Jauregg Nervenklinik in Linz – where a girl was killed half a year ago because it accused a judge of sexually abused her. You've been under the table for a long time. We know today that this girl has been overdosed that it has definitely been killed. Nothing came from you, nothing at all. The hospital has tried to cover up. An anonymous ad has put this case in place, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happened? – Nothing happened! The perpetrators have been released. Even one of the treating doctors, Dr. Schöny, from this clinic says: We are sorry that this case can no longer be clarified. - That's what the treating psychiatrist says. From the same house, an expert, Dr. Kastner, was appointed, who, in an 111-page opinion, accused this girl of disbelief. She needed 111 pages to disprove the statement of a 16-year-old girl, which alone says a lot, even though Mrs Kastner said half a year earlier that she was so overburdened at work that she wanted to be removed from the expert list. But for the assessment of this incident, it was used again. She writes 111 pages, what it means to lie to this girl, tell stories. The perpetrators are released. - That's a ring, and that has system. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Feasibility Report!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the network!]] It's a network, and people in this republic have seen it for a long time. There is no need for “evil” liberties to paint any brains on the wall, so do people. [[Abg. Strache: This is the culprit network that exists in this Republic! But we're going to open this crime protection network!]] Sexual offenders are punished as just a few days ago at five months. A Salzburg youth judge has been given five months due to the reason to have suffered under burn-out. So please, if this is a reason for looking at child pornography and then going home with a penalty of five months, then we need nothing in this Republic at all, then we need no more laws, Mrs Federal Minister! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I'll tell you something. With your approach, with these so-called increases of punishment that you have announced today, you will not change anything at all, because these are fines, these are castrations. Because when, please, in what cases in recent years has the highest penalty been imposed at all? – There is no single case in which the highest penalty has been pronounced. They find the so-called famous individual cases that go through like a red thread, and there will never be a high penalty. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, five minutes are short, but I promise you: We will continue to deal with this topic in the next few months.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6099	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6121	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that we are in agreement, namely: Every child to whom violence is done is definitely a child too much!, but access to the overall child protection package seems to be different. There are really many organizations in Austria that work daily with children and young people who have experienced violence, sexual violence, physical violence, mental violence, and all are unanimously convinced that it must be an overall task of this state to guarantee child protection. However, this whole package of child protection, which would be so important, is not currently available in Austria, and that is the great criticism, ladies and gentlemen. This is the great criticism that only tightening in criminal law alone cannot grant child protection in the long term. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Child protection centres, therapy facilities, women's homes, violence centres, intervention agencies against violence in the family, youth welfare in itself, and the political community. said justice, all these are organisations that really have an important part to play in child protection. This is the share of organisations. But where is the state share, ladies and gentlemen? We have just heard in many speeches how important it is for policy to intervene, how important it is for the government to give clear signs that Parliament is setting clear signs. In the final effect, however, there is no prevention package, there is no law to modernise youth welfare, which would be so important – there is no whole child protection package. This is the criticism that the government also needs to make and that leads to the question of why this is so. Child protection as a whole is a task that means networking, which must also take place between the members of the government. If you, Mrs. Justice Minister Karl, say that an intensification in criminal law for the protection of children is an important measure, it must also be said that your party colleague, youth and family minister Mitterlehner, clearly fails to remove the Youth Aid Act from the drawer. Since the year 2008, my much-honored Ladies and gentlemen, there is a draft for the modernisation and improvement of youth welfare, for more financial resources, for more human resources, for more quality standards throughout Austria, for more networking opportunities between youth welfare providers. At present, the protection of children is still dependent on the postal code. That, ladies and gentlemen, can't be it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Also this year, in 2011, a federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children was adopted in this Parliament, which states that every child has the right to develop and develop his personality, to non-violent education and to protect against abuse and exploitation. This is a national mission, ladies and gentlemen. However, this law is still not implemented. There is still no implementation of this Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of the Child, which has only been adopted in this House this year. This is already very strange, because if you hit the newspapers and read almost daily reports about how many children have experienced violence, sexual, psychological and physical violence, then it is already very unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen, that neither the Youth Aid Act has been removed from the drawer and finally fulfilled with life, nor the Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children are fulfilled with life. That means simply saying that increasing the criminal framework is not a child protection package for a long time – not yet, ladies and gentlemen, very much! On the contrary! It takes preventive measures, it needs networking. In fact, it also needs a prevention centre for the protection of children, which can work in an interministerial manner, and which reveals everything – even in the sense of the financial resources that are not available at the moment. It takes money, money and money, because prevention costs, child protection costs, and no one should be ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6184	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6205	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Child protection instead of culprit protection – the urgency of this appeal, Mrs. Justice Minister, shows itself not only in this current hour, but also in reality every day. This appeal applies not only to you, Mrs Rechtsminister, but also to all those who are politically responsible in this country and, above all, to the Federal Government, who are constantly declaring announcements concerning child protection, but only very careful acts. I am also thinking of the area of family policy, which is characterized by a standstill and reductions in the means of child protection. I also think that this child protection package, Mrs. Federal Minister, which you announced today, has already been announced by the end of 2010 and its implementation has been promised by mid-2011. Now we have at the end of 2011, and Parliament has not even been involved. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we from the BZÖ have a very clear line on child protection: everything to protect our children and no excuse for those who pass by our children! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] A year ago, we launched a child protection offensive with ten demands that cover much of what has been said today. Many requests, numerous requests, we have made – they have all been rejected or, as usual, postponed. Let me take a few examples. In October 2010, on our initiative, there was a five-party request to punish the crime of "Cyber-Grooming". It's been a year now. Perhaps something is coming, but it is not, as has been said, even in Parliament. Second example: The limitation of crimes against the sexual integrity of minors is still possible. All that we've brought in so far has been rejected. Now, in the shadow of the terrible occurrences in the children's home Wilhelminenberg, one is at least once ready to talk. I'm telling you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Sexual abuse and sexual violence against children – and Mr Westenthaler has already said that the law still distinguishes between normal abuse and serious abuse, which is incomprehensible – must never be delayed, for that is murder: [[Accident with BZÖ and FPÖ]] Murdering the souls of young people. And you'll do it if you keep it that way, children to second-class victims. Third example: There is still no sufficient federal framework for clear arrangements for action if there is to be a risk of child welfare. [[Abg. Scheibner: Centralize!]] Since 2008, we have been waiting for an improved early warning system, an improved Federal Youth Aid Act. There is no agreement so far. The Minister speaks to the countries that block the countries. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the Mitterlehner wurtzt! As long as the economy is in good shape, that's what the Mitterlehner wants!]] Finally, it's about money. I have absolutely no understanding when, for example, billions are going to Greece, but few millions are missing for the safety of our children. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Next example: We still do not have a register of anti-violence as a network between hospitals in order to be able to carry out possible pre-history in children. 2010 major announced: MEDPOL – not yet implemented. We still have no further development of the mother-child passport into a real parent-youth passport, in order to be able to identify and act in good time as prevention even during the annual investigation. All this, ladies and gentlemen, shows in a terrifying way that improved protection for our children from sexual abuse and physical and mental violence does not have absolute priority for this government. Whenever the attention of the media public is again focused on one case, confessions are made, but otherwise it is announced for a long time and hardly acted quickly. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] We therefore call on the BZÖ to act quickly instead of for a long time announce! We call for a child protection summit where necessary measures are put in place in a National Action Plan on Child Protection. We have set together some time ago the right of children to protection and care in the Constitution. I urge this right of protection and care at this point: with a strong network of precautions and early warning systems for our children and against a network of perpetrators, which is always to be smashed. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You must be brave, Mrs. Federal Minister: Without the person's reputation, you have to step in there! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, child protection now is the urgent task we have in our country. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] We from the BZÖ will participate in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6303	Now comes Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6325	Madam President. High house! We need tougher penalties for child abuse. But not because such a person may be unable to abuse a child, rape a child, or do you seriously believe that, before he rapes a child, anyone will think about whether he will have ten or 20 years in prison for it? However, we still need harder and longer penalties, for one reason: to exclude these subjects from society for as long as possible. We therefore need longer prison sentences for child abusers, for rapers of children and so on, because these people are ticking time bombs, and if we leave such ticking time bombs in society, then first as late as possible, and then only so that they can ever get in touch with children again at work or otherwise. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In other words, we need an extended leadership certificate, so that these people are no longer allowed to work in kindergartens, schools or other facilities, where they can have contact with children and have their impulse re-ignited accordingly. That's why we need this extended leadership certificate, we need a professional ban on sexual offenders. And above all, what we need: We need to look more closely at child pornography. Someone who downloads children's porn from the Internet, looks at them and gratifies himself, is a ticking time bomb. This is not a cavalier crime, which is sometimes only subject to conditional prison sentences, which is a huge problem, because do you not believe that all those who do so – who download child pornography from the Internet – will be offended and satisfied accordingly – sometime when they have the opportunity to also abuse children accordingly? So we need to look more closely at that and we must also increase the penalties accordingly! Even in the case of violence against children, we must act when parents throw their children on the wall when they torture them systematically when they torture them – as we have heard today with this American family judge, who, together with his wife and a belt, has treat his child for a few minutes; where the mother has come and forced the child to lie down and take the punishment and the father has beaten it with the belt. And when the child refused, they beat the child with the belt everywhere, for minutes. I looked at that. I have to tell you one thing: I've never been as bad in my life as after this video. Look at it, then you know what sick personalities are walking on this earth! [[Abg. Strache: He was still a judge!]] That's where we have to look, we have to do something. There we need an intensification in order for these sick subjects to be excluded from society for as long as possible. Now we are coming to a point that is very, very important to me, and that is why I have also spoken here today. I'm a family father myself. Now we have a big block where you can be active, Mrs Minister: This allows you to act more stringently, to impose professional bans and so on. All these things are necessary, but what you do is something that in the end the child pours out with the bath. They criminalize loving, caring, but partly also over-needed parents with your minimum punishment, which you demand for parents who, in an exceptional situation, once give a hit to a child out of overneathing a child. You want a minimum penalty because it's already violent for you. And from my point of view, there is clearly beyond the goal, for one is also quite certain: There are enough such situations where a child is threatened by his behavior, where a child simply doesn't want to get to reason, where every speech simply doesn't make sense, where the child is born and beats himself wildly, and when I get there with an earbeat, that's certainly not as harmful as it is propagated in many books – especially in these anti-authoritarian books, where the child is punished with abstinence of love and with other punishments, such as with contempt and other things. It's much worse for the child than if I ever gave him a little hit that didn't hurt anyone. [[Calls for Greens and SPÖ.]] And that's why: Don't shake the kid out here with the bath! Take care of the true criminals and do not criminalize parents who are sometimes overwhelmed and no longer know how to help themselves and give the child a hit on the butt or where. This is certainly not a violence against children! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] Take care of the really important points and do not criminalize loving and caring parents, who are sometimes unfortunately also somewhat overwhelmed, but give these parents the possibility that they will get along with their overload and develop better strategies, then there are no problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6383	Nobody's reported word anymore. The debate is closed. [[10:29:46]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6405	We'll be up to date. European hours on the subject: “The best opportunities for Europe’s youth – employment as a key” The first is Mr Katzian. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6434	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the present hour, we all agreed to do everything we can to protect the children. And just as we want to do everything we can to protect children, it is now also about doing everything we can to reach the best opportunities for young people in Europe. We believe that the key to good opportunities, the key to the future of youth in Europe, is employment policy, whether there is a proper employment offer for young people in Europe. – Unfortunately, this is not the case. Youth unemployment in the European Union is dramatic: On average, the European Union is around 20 percent and in all countries it is twice as high as the normal unemployment rate. Unfortunately, the trend is strongly rising. In some countries youth unemployment has reached 40 to 50 percent: 43 percent in Greece, 46 percent in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this development is dramatic, because that means that a whole generation is being robbed of the future perspective, and it also brings a lot of social explosives. What can happen if youth unemployment, instigation, cuts in social benefits and other measures of this kind come together, can be observed in the UK or other European countries. With relatively low youth unemployment of 8 percent and very effective apprenticeship training, Austria is a model for youth employment policy for many other countries in the European Union. Youth employment is a real concern for the Federal Government and our Social Minister, and I believe that the figures and the fact that we are European champions in youth employment speak for themselves. It is a good policy that we are making here for the employment of young people, and I believe that when we are discussing the European situation in youth employment today, we can also be proud of how youth employment is handled in Austria and that we have a very high level of employment here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The high rate of unemployment at European level is that at the beginning of the career of young people, so to speak, an Eldorado of the Precariate takes place. Exploitation by unpaid internships, low wages and all types of circumvention contracts are on the agenda for young people, regardless of qualifications. This is not only true of those who have poor qualifications or who have quit school. In Europe, on average, four out of ten jobs are temporary for young people. For example, how dramatic the situation can be despite low unemployment can be seen in Germany, where, through a massive austerity policy, almost all the rules of visibility and through years of low-paid policies, fewer and fewer young people can live from their incomes. [[Abg. Kickl: That's where you ask yourself, the union!]] It is clear that one cannot build up a future that one cannot invest in the future. Youths are the most bleeding in the crisis, they are most affected because there is the highest unemployment in Europe among young people compared with other groups. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is about investing immediately and substantially in labour market projects for young workers. It is not about – and we must not allow this – the setting of the framework conditions with savings programmes, where in reality the future of young people is cut off. We need economic packages, we need little investment, and we do not need reductions in public and social services. It is about quality jobs, it is about work that you can live on, and it is about prospects for young people in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must not waste time either, and I would like to expressly say that I really support the initiative of the Social Minister at the Council of Ministers of the European Union to take immediate and unbureaucratic youth employment policies. I do not just want to expressly support this, but I would like to encourage you, Mr Social Minister, to continue this course. It is about taking money now, tying up youth employment packages and forcing them to make sure that youth unemployment is falling in Europe. We must try to implement what is important to us in Austria, including at European level. The euro crisis must not be an excuse here, ladies and gentlemen. Saving the wrong end – saving young people, saving on active labour market policies – means saving in the future. If one saves in these areas, this is more than fatal, and if nothing material happens in Europe, then a lot of things will grow together: Then, in addition to the economic crisis, the debt crisis and the euro crisis, we also have a social crisis – and soon also a democratic crisis. Then those rat-fishers who try to present the young people with very simple answers to their problems will continue to get started. We have experienced examples of what this can lead to in the past: in Norway and last in Germany. Whoever reads the last “Mirror ” can actually only come as a gray. Ladies and gentlemen, social democracy therefore remains: We need a new growth and distribution model in Europe. Europe, as it is now ticking, is not enough for us to do so with those backgrounds, structures and conditions as policy is being made. We want to change the system, we need growth and we need a fair distribution system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, debt needs to be reduced, but not by breaking down the social system and robbing young people's perspective. We need new revenue that must come from those who can very well afford to invest in the future, from those, ladies and gentlemen who deserved before the crisis, who deserved it during the crisis and who deserved it after the crisis. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We need measures that enable Member States to grow out of the crisis, and not measures that will save Member States into the next recession. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is about promoting general economic demand, it is about ensuring purchasing power as an important basis in this context, and I believe that Austrian trade unions, through an active, committed and very successful wage policy, also make an important contribution to ensuring purchasing power. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Therefore, from my point of view, there are two levels of further work in this area. The one thing is to work at national level to ensure that this path that we have taken in recent years – our focus on youth employment – continues to ensure that measures of active and committed labour market policies ensure that very low youth unemployment can also be further reduced at European level. Every youth and every youth who is unemployed is one or one too much, so we still have great efforts to make in Austria. At European level, I would like to stress this once again, we are committed to measures and economic packages that give young people in Europe hope and a future. Let us support our Social Minister in his ideas! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6510	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6531	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! 7.1 percent: We are first and foremost, we have the lowest youth unemployment in the European Union! We have been able to overtake Holland again. You know, we always change here a little bit, but now in September – and also in October – we have the lowest unemployment. This lowest unemployment is a confirmation of the youth labour market policy of the Austrian Federal Government, which we have undertaken. With the consistent implementation and development of this Austrian labour market policy for young people, we are also taking account of the Europe 2020 reform programme. There are different key objectives for this Europe 2020, and what is most relevant to me is the improvement of the level of education and the reduction of the school drop-out rate. Of the seven key initiatives, two directly concerned this sector, namely the "Agenda for new skills and new employment opportunities", in order to facilitate lifelong learning in particular. The aim is also to achieve an employment rate of 75 percent of the working-age population by 2020. The Youth on the Move Guide initiative aims to strengthen education systems on the one hand, but above all to facilitate access to the labour market for young people on the other. We have an instrument that we are very useful at European and national level, and this instrument is the European Social Fund. For Austria, the European Social Fund has provided important impetus for the further development of offers in the field of youth employment. This work in territorial employment pacts has proved successful, and the success of the ESF is also due to the fact that several ministries, the AMS, the social partners and the Austrian federal states are involved. I would now like to give you a few examples of what we are doing in the ESF. Perhaps one of the most recent but one of the most successful offers is the establishment of 20 Austrian production schools, where we strive to integrate 2,000 young people each year through this institution into working life, to teach them an apprenticeship. The financing is also secured in future with the AMS, together with the ESF and with the Austrian federal states. In Austria, as one of a few European countries, we have a model of apprenticeship training, the dual vocational training model, which leads to almost 40 percent of young people of an age to follow this path. At the end of October we had almost 120,000 operational apprentices, and whether or not you believe it or not – some do not want to believe it here in the house – we have an increase in the driving apprentices in the first year of teaching, we have had 36 600 apprenticeships with the end of October in Austria – in establishments! I would like to stress this deliberately. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You also know that at the moment a novel to the Vocational Training Act, together with the colleague Mitterlehner and his place of business, is in the review, with which it is also about establishing apprentice coachings and corresponding new projects. And, of course, this training guarantee continues to apply; this training guarantee currently covers around 10 500 young people, which we also train in super-company training facilities. We have set another goal, that is, “Action Future Youth”. Why have we set this goal? – Because out of ten unemployed young people, four are between 19 and 24 years of age and have a maximum of compulsory schooling. The aim is to help young people in particular through training opportunities, special employment promotions, intensification of mediation. The aim is to re-acquire diplomas and qualifications and new opportunities in the labour market. ==References== January 2011 to 31. In October of this year, it has put 118 000 young adults into employment again, and is currently about 60 000 in training programmes, in qualification programmes. Since September/October this year there is an additional project called “JUST Neu”. This does nothing but simply help 1,500 very, very low-qualified young unemployed people to reclaim their qualifications. And we are still pioneering as Austria. We are pioneering for the whole of Europe by being exemplary in the transition from school to profession. They have already heard from my previous speaker, every seventh young European leaves the education system without completion. Currently, some 6.4 million people in Europe are so-called school dropouts. Fortunately, the school drop-out rate in Austria is somewhat below the EU average, but it is still too high for us. And school-leaving simply contributes significantly to social exclusion in later life, helping to count in later life always on a group of weak people and those who have a very high risk of unemployment. All this has to be avoided, and that is why, in Vienna and Styria, we are starting with 2012 the youth coachings, which are about to try together with the classroom that young people, when they have completed the compulsory school, also know very well how it goes on so that no vacuum can arise on this issue. Why do we start in these two federal states? – Because there have already been some testing tests in these two federal states and of course we have the goal, and I have specifically the goal of doing so in the foreseeable future in all Austrian states. But in all these activities, we also strive specifically to keep in mind a group and a subject area, and that is the professional integration of young people with disabilities. There is no question that this group needs very, very special measures, and we have again provided or will communicate to 27 000 young people this year so that they can easily enter the work process. We have the accompanying assistance, we have the clearing, we have the youth coaching, we have a vocational training assistance, we have an integrated vocational training, we have a youth work assistance, which is especially applicable to young people with disabilities, we have job coaching and – which is also a high effort for this group of people, but we do not have the opportunity to do so. It is a pleasure to work – to mature in the form of educational qualifications as well as targeted qualification and employment measures. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Of course, there are also young people with disabilities who are in training, who also receive personal assistance at work. There are not many, they are only 112, but they get them. All these activities concern me to continue to initiate something. Fighting youth unemployment is a European priority, and we have more than five million young people in the EU who are unemployed. The economic prospects are not exactly the most satisfying, but yet we must act now. And how does the concrete initiative look? – The initiative proposed by me includes a training and employment guarantee for young people between 15 and 24 and the establishment of a fund called “Future for Youth”. Each youth should, as soon as possible, make a training, make a further education, have a teaching centre, simply continue somehow after completing his compulsory education. There are already some experiences: We have experience in Austria, we have an existing experience in Holland, there is the “Action Plan against Youth Unemployment”, we have an existing experience in France, there is called “Emergency Plan for Youth Employment”, and we also very often have the right offers to develop regionally. This will be another topic – in some regions it currently does not work at all, in others better. What I want to do is that this will be implemented in 2012, very quickly, very unbureaucratic. If it is possible to help with various other activities within the European Union very unbureaucratically, it must also be possible to help young people very unbureaucratically. We have such an instrument, for example, with the Regional Fund for Greece, where, at one time, very unbureaucratic aid was available. It must also be brought into all these discussions, first to the next financial period, that there will be an increase in funding for young people, so that the financial crisis does not follow a social crisis. We must find an answer to the problems of youth employment in Europe, and we can be very confident as an example as Austria – knowing very well that Austria must not, of course, fail to do so, knowing very well that Austria must continue its activities on a permanent basis, because an objective must in all cases be met: Every youth must, after completing his compulsory schooling, make a further education, because only compulsory school is too little for further life. This is the credo you need to implement. This can only be done step by step, no question at all, but we must now also take a step forward not only in Austria, but also in Europe to actively apply our experiences and initiatives and to actively start a youth employment initiative for Europe as a whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6641	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time, as already mentioned in the previous hour, is 5 minutes for all other participants. Mrs Csörgits has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6666	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with you, Mr Federal Minister, but also with all your colleagues. sorts and the other departments are very grateful to the fact that in Austria it has succeeded in taking action to combat active, meaningful, correct and targeted youth unemployment, and I would like to include the social partners in particular. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This successful model, ladies and gentlemen, must continue to work, as the Federal Minister has already said. And quite, it is also very important in this context that this great model, which we have jointly developed in Austria, should and should be exemplary for the European Union. I support you – and I believe we all support you – in your efforts, Mr Federal Minister, to implement our proposals also in the field of the European Union, because you cannot watch when many people, especially young people in Europe, are affected by youth unemployment. My previous speakers have already said it: It's not just the problem that these people have no work. It is also the problem that these people have no future, that every opportunity is taken for them, and that this creates a multitude of difficulties. One is that they are not in a position to make their own money. However, the other is that they are often accessible to some popular radical political slogans because of a lack of perspective, and often the only way and the only way to draw attention to their problem is to go on the road in the form of violent demonstrations. One point that also plays a role in why unemployment arises in the field of youth is that it is saved – where it does not make sense socially. However, in all the austerity measures that are necessary, right and important, one must always keep in mind the mirror and see whether these savings measures also mean that unemployment arises, that jobs are reduced. One problem I would also like to mention is that people who have been affected by unemployment for a long time also fall into severe depression and, of course, it is still more difficult to be integrated into the work process. I am pleased that in the area of the European Union, under the motto 'Youth on the Move', guiding initiatives have now been set up, which in many areas are also in line with our youth measures. I may mention some of them: I should like to mention the “European Youth Guarantee”, which aims to ensure that all young people in the Member States either have a job or are still active in training within four months of their graduation. We are pleased to have already done this in Austria, which the Federal Minister has mentioned, and this is a great success. Another measure focuses on the particularly difficult situation of those people between the ages of 20 and 24. Of this age group, about 15 percent have never been in any kind of employment or have quit training. It must be of particular importance to provide assistance to young people either to complete training, to further qualify or to be integrated into the labour market, because, at the end of the day, precisely those young people who have no opportunity to become active are at risk of falling into total perspectivelessness. Ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved good results with our youth employment programmes. We also place a very special emphasis on those people who have a low level of education. am. That's where we want to further qualify. The Federal Minister has already said it: It is very important and crucial to motivate young people to get a higher qualification, higher education, because only then can it be ensured that the possibility of getting into work is easier. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this will not be for nothing. For this it is necessary to take a lot of money into your hands, but it is well-invested money; and I think this well-invested money also means that we are saving many young people in Austria a bad problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6738	Mr Dr Lopatka is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6759	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take advantage of the current hour of Europe to say something about Europe as well. Without a doubt, youth employment is a central issue within Europe, but Europe, in the current constitution, is in a situation where other challenges are in the foreground. And only by addressing these challenges can one actually create a basis for providing prospects for young people in terms of their employment. Europe is, of course, the fate of our youth. There is no doubt that employment is a key to the future of each young person. But, as has been said, the basis for this is the concept of this Europe, the constitution of the European financial and economic location. And Europe is at a turning point. Four weeks ago, this Europe was a different Europe than it is now, according to the decisions of the last Council. However, late on, Europe has noticed that financial markets do not tolerate another lavish, that the financial markets are not prepared to reform. And Europe has responded – thank God, I say. Europe after Berlusconi, after Papandreou, is still a Europe facing major challenges. This certainly does not solve the problems, but there is already a big difference to so far. It has just been done, and both countries are creating major concerns that believe in this European Solidarity Community – and Europe is a community of fate. These personalities, who are now at the forefront of Greece and Italy, are, of course, different from their predecessors, and they are quite confident to create these Hercules tasks when this fate community is Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the path of the euro zone is no longer to be revised. And that is why the Federal Government, by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, was right on the part of the Vice-Cancellor, to act quickly here in Austria too, at a time when we are the sovereign of action. [[Abg. Oils: Youth unemployment!]] In Greece, in Italy, the IMF is at the government table, the International Monetary Fund is also monitoring what is happening in the national Parliament, and the national Parliament is at the heart of each of the European Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to prevent us from acting in our hands that the IMF and the European Commission do not give us what we have to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is the crucial point, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, before I come to the subject of youth employment, I say: It is very crucial for young people how difficult the debt backpack we hand over to them is. If we succeed in facilitating this debt backpack in the next few years, this is a very, very important step. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] We in Austria are committed to fulfilling our homework, and the European Union too has its homework to carry out. I can only recommend to all Members to read an essay by Jürgen Habermas on the Constitution of Europe, in which he clearly shows where this Europe must go. It must not be less of Europe in order to bring it to the shortest formula, it must be a more Europe. This is our mission to which we must give our consent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm really glad – really! – I am very pleased that Austria is in a different situation when it comes to employment and youth employment than many EU countries are. It is nice that Austria is indeed very good in both areas, both in youth unemployment and in unemployment rates. The measurements have not been made by us, have not been beautiful by the Austrian Federal Government, these are the European figures. We are at the forefront of both areas, at the forefront of all 27 EU Member States: 7 per cent in youth unemployment, 4 per cent in total unemployment. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Of course, every single unemployed person is one too much. That's quite clear. But it is already another situation if you have 7 percent unemployed young people or 48 percent like in Spain – the seven times of us! That's dramatic. Therefore, we should also focus on this, the decisive factor in this is education, training. This is the key to ensuring that we continue to have such a good situation on the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6827	Next speaker: Mr Dr Hübner – Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6848	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr. Lopatka has said thank God the position with which everything is healed: There must be more and more Europe and never less Europe, the solution is more and more Europe. Only: The solution to the issue that we are now dealing with, which Mr Katzian has addressed, will be difficult to find in more Europe, because a large part of these problems is more Europe, because the unemployment we have, including youth unemployment, is essentially a European problem, a problem of the failure of the euro and the euro area. The enormous imbalances that have destroyed both the Spanish economy and the Greek economy and the Portuguese economy are a product of the Eurozone, a product of the possibility of cheap debt, is a product of the possibility to ignore economic reason. That is, what is offered here as therapy is one of the reasons and one of the causes of the disease and the crisis. This means that Mr Lopatka is very cooperative in a situation similar to that of Mr Katzian, who also sees the diseases of the system as the only source of salvation and as the only remedy, but who conceals and does not mention the causes and, to that end, has taken the – thank God – inevitable phrases of the “simple answers of the rat-catchers” into the mouth. All that one cannot say is what the real causes are are the “simple answers of the rat-catchers. ” Of course, there is only one solution for my colleague Katzian – I have written to myself how he formulated it so beautifully –: It is important not to cut down on social systems, to take money, not to save on the next recession, and to link up economic packages. – We have made that enough, and we see the results! [[Abg. May. Stadler: And... fight!]] Mr Minister, Mr Katzian has given you with his theme beautiful words for a self-primary speech, but you could have already told us the fairness of the whole figures that in addition to these 7 or 7.5 percent youth unemployment is also an equal number of young people in training programmes. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Not at all!]] This therefore de facto leads to a doubling of youth unemployment. But now let's get to the causes a little bit. Let us look, for example, at Spain! This is always brought to justice as a disaster example: 46.5% youth unemployment, 21.2 or 21.3 percent – the latest figures – total unemployment. Where did this come from? Is this because we have too little Europe? Is this because we pay too few social programmes or does it have other causes? One of the reasons is that there has been no economic growth there for four years after the debt bubble has been placed and therefore no jobs are created. Another cause, however, is not uninteresting either: Spain has the highest share of foreigners throughout the European Union in Luxembourg – Luxembourg has a lot more – about 12 percent, which is 5.2 million inhabitants. Of these, about 70 percent have been lost in the last 20 years. Immigration is now over 100,000 a year! The socialist government of Zapatero still refuses to take action against it. Minimum changes in foreign law have been made, but only minimal changes have been made. Mr Katzian, how should this work: such an inflow to the labour market and no economic growth? That's no reason? The only reason is social programmes, that is to say, to reduce the 46.5% by means of social programmes, by means of money-in-hand names, by in-some teaching workshops-employees? – Well, I like to look at the budgetary situation in half a year! [[Abg. Lueger: What is your counter proposal?]] The counter-proposal is twofold. First: There can be no improvement in the situation of young people, neither employment nor income. [[Abg. Riepl: That's not a suggestion!]] Mr Katzian mentioned this very correctly. In Germany, it is not only the problem that there is youth unemployment – it is not that high at all – but it is the problem that a large part is in precarious employment conditions and that for 15 years the average real income of professionals has been falling there. But what is the situation in Germany, colleague Katzian? – In Germany, there is currently a foreign rate with foreign citizenship of 9 percent. That's about seven million people. And 20 percent of the total population, 16 million have migration backgrounds. There was an inflow to the German labour market in the last two generations of 16 million people – mostly from countries with a much lower or disastrous wage level than we do. [[Abg. Riepl: Where is your proposal? You said you had two proposals!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] How do you imagine, therefore, that without a stop to immigration or a repatriation of a part of the immigrants who are not integrable and unadulterable here, to get to grips with the problem? [[Abg. Riepl: Now talk for so long until the speaking time is over! We don't hear any suggestions!]] And tell me again: How do you imagine that this argument will continue with the objection – I am already done – that all of this would be the “simple answers of the rat-fishers”?- Oh, my God! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6982	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7003	Not behind every high pult is also a big man. [[the high-level speaker’s console shut down]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The key to the future of youth in Europe: Are these really the jobs? – I would like to start by saying that I disagree with this thesis, because the key is not primarily the jobs, but the all-rounder important – and that will also confirm to you every labour market expert and every labour market expert – is good basic training, education and training. That's why I'm saying: If we are concerned about the future of youth in the European Union, especially in Austria, please talk about a reform of education. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We finally need good and more childcare facilities. We need a better school system and we need free access to high-quality higher education. These are the conditions that create the basis for later on having the chance to get a good job. But I would like to go further, because these delays, which we unfortunately have in Austria in reforming this so important educational system, are stealing young people's chances for the future. Their blockade policy, especially the blockade policy of the EIA, ladies and gentlemen, is stealing young people's chances of a good future. 10 percent of all young people in Austria only have compulsory schooling. They are faced with a career as the worst paid, mostly exploited auxiliary workers and ever-increasing unemployment. We know that. In countries such as Poland and Slovenia, this ratio is 5 percent. This is a bit embarrassing for us; 5 percent, half of Austria. In the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, the aim was to halve this quota between 2000 and 2010. That didn't work out. Today Mr. Minister Hundstorfer announces efforts in this direction, but they are long overdue. If this educational reform does not finally come, then you will steal young people in Austria and ultimately your chance across Europe for a good future. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also talking about jobs and jobs. I do not agree with Mr Hundstorfer that he is very committed, I should also like to say several times that I very much appreciate what he is trying to do in this area. Safe: We are not so bad in the European comparison, but – and this is already a big but – youth unemployment has increased by 5 percent in Austria over the last ten years. And – again a big but –: Youth unemployment is on average always above the unemployment rate of the total number of employees in Austria. So: The situation is not so rosy. There's something else to add: Even if young people succeed in finding a job, it is in the rarest cases a fixed, indefinite job. Young people under thirty are disproportionately often employed in so-called atypical employment conditions. In concrete terms it is 14.4 percent of all employees who work atypically, but in the under thirty-thirds it is more than a third who are only slightly employed to have free service contracts, part-time employment, et cetera. We certainly can't be satisfied with this. Minister! I really hope that many of the programmes that you have announced to us today will bring us a little bit in total. I firmly believe that in the first place we need a good educational reform and, of course, fair and good jobs for young people in Austria and Europe. If you are on this path, They certainly have the Greens as supporters and supporters.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7097	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7119	Mr President. It is good that, in view of the difficult times we are in, we can also talk about European issues. Of course, the subject that we would have presented would have been the primary issue, namely the Euro crisis and what Austria is doing, as Austria is preparing for it. Of course, employment is important, youth employment is important, money is important for education, for training our young people so that they have a perspective. Mr Federal Minister, if you stand so gloriously behind us today, please beautify everything and say that in Austria we have an exemplary employment policy, from which other countries can only look at something, then you must not hide one thing, namely that, as far as the number of employees is concerned, we also have most early retirements in Austria and that this is also a fact that you can show such a good number here. Ignore You don't want people to do that! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] If You are so proud of this high number of employees in Austria, then I would have expected you to express your gratitude to the Austrian economy for thanking the skilled entrepreneurs in our country for receiving such a high number of apprentices, to employees. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Despite this government!]] That is not a matter of course either. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] In your statement, I would have liked you to be a little self-critical, not just as if the whole world were looking at Austria, which we are not for an exemplary country in terms of employment policy. Let us also say that more and more workers are no longer able to cope with what they earn, that the work they have is a major work, but that they can no longer live from this work, because we have a much too high tax and tax rate because inflation is very high because, above all, day by day fees are increased, in the communities the fees are growing to the immeasurable and within three years the fees are accelerated by up to 30, 40 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] Tell me that too! If you, Mr Federal Minister, get in touch with the employees in our country on business visits, you would also have to discuss these cases with them. Who are you discussing with? I wonder. They also pass politics on to reality. If you come out here today and say that the youth is our capital of the future, I agree. Yes! But you're in the best way to waste that capital. They deal with capital just like the socialist big rock, that is wasteful! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They do not develop a perspective for young people, because if you did, you would face this development at European level, not raising your voice for even more Europe, even more money for Greece, even more money for the maritime banks and countries in southern Europe, and for lifeguards that do not come to people and not to the young people for whom they were actually intended. And you say it is justified to send these funds to Greece, for example. I'll answer you: 80 per cent of all the aid measures that are tied at European level do not come to the people you see on television who go on the street complaining that great banks and investors are being protected and that money comes to them. The money doesn't come from people. The money you send to Greece does not come to the young people in Greece. That is why it is not fair to go here, Mr Federal Minister, and compare the Greek conditions with the Austrians. If you are interested in a really efficient aid for the situation in Greece, you should remind it at European level and ensure that economic programmes are finally decided in Greece and taken up so that young people can also find employment there; the same in Portugal, the same in Spain. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But you only decide on aid programmes for the banks in our country. And that's what we're gonna do to you. With all these packages that are tied there, don't change the situation that they are bank rescue packages. You don't change the situation that the debt goes up, ladies and gentlemen. And we will discuss this again several times in the near future. Only through work, through performance, through stable finances and savings packages will we be able to offer young people a future in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7189	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7211	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Klubobmann Bucher, it is already courageous to present ourselves here in the light of the figures we have on the table, and to say that politics is passing by reality, especially with regard to youth. So you have never understood, or you have not heard that we have the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. [[Abg. Grosz: The highest early pensions!]] [[Abg. Bucher: At what price? The debt you leave behind will have to earn the next one!]] I do not want to tighten the sentence; every unemployed youth is too much. But you didn't understand the system, and I'm going to try to get some light into the dark. [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] The best opportunity for Europe's youth employment is the employment key. In her budget speech, Mrs Finanzminister referred to the words “children” and “youth” at least ten times in this regard, also indicating that children are our future. Economic and banking crises always meet the entire population. But the first to be affected are always young people. And if we still have young people – and we have them – who do not have full education that has not completed secondary education, then these are those young people who could drift into long-term unemployment and are threatened with social exclusion. And there we must take steps – and they will be put in place – because an important step for young people is also to create this important step between education and work. The government has therefore decided on a government programme, in particular nationally and for young people, where there are targeted measures for growth and employment, where there should be investment in education and training and above all in order to strengthen this dual system. That is what we are standing for, and that is a good system. The Youth Employment Package, which we decided in 2008, needs to be further expanded. And measures to ensure the guarantee of training are certainly one of the points. This correlates: the national with the international, with the European ideas. The European Employment Strategy has three priorities: smart growth, sustainable growth and inclusive growth. And there are very important goals set by the Federal Government: to increase the employment rate of 20- to 64-year-olds to 75 percent, to reduce the number of dropouts to less than 10 percent – we are better in the Austrian region, because we have only 8.3 percent, but also these 8.3 percent are too much – and to increase the proportion of those who have a degree in higher education. For example, “Youth on the Move” is a model in Europe that aims to expand the mobility offer for students. Bilateral and regional educational cooperation and teaching and learning abroad, this should be possible for our young people. The European Social Fund, already mentioned by the Federal Minister, is promoting projects aimed at helping young people who are threatened by unemployment and social exclusion to reduce labour market disadvantages. And there are good projects in all the federal states of Austria, which are also well accepted. The whole thing is coordinated by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and the production schools he himself called are a product of that which arose from it. To show you that we have very good examples, I would like to point out a competition that has just taken place. There were 5 to 10 in London. The WorldSkills WorldSkills were held in October of this year, in which young people in teaching took part. A total of 950 contestants participated, Austria sent 28 participants, with the result that we received three gold medals, one silver medal, two bronze medals and 12 performance diplomas. That means we're on the right track, we're making up young people very well. Mr Minister, I support all your initiatives, which you have announced today, because only through your rapid action has it been possible for us to be first in the unemployment rate of young people in Europe. It is the most important contribution that youth is in employment, as this could also stabilise and secure social welfare and pension schemes. We need more money for this, and we need it in the future. And we are not only thinking about expenditure on the one hand, we are also thinking about revenue on the other, and that is why it is clear to us that we need the financial transaction tax.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7269	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7290	Mr President. Federal Minister! Since it is an hour of Europe, I would like to focus on what the European Union is doing for young people, not only for those who live in Austria, but also for those who live in other European countries, because it is already a fact that the problems, the situations which young people face, which they have to face, are very similar in many European countries, think of globalisation, think of cultural diversity, which naturally requires other social and communicative behaviour, and above all think of the economic situation. That is what my colleague, Mr Lopatka, has already said. I think the most important thing that policy has to do to support young people in Europe is a stable foundation, and this is primarily to be seen economically, especially in times like this one. The ambiguity of not spending more money than you have in bad times, but also in good times, was today also taken into account in the Council of Ministers. I would therefore like to mention two things in my contribution to the debate, which I consider very, very important, especially for young people. On the one hand, the debt brake was decided today. This is important, therefore, because the debts we make today impose a burden on our future generations that they have to bear. The objective of reducing debt to 60% of GDP by 2020 is an ambitious goal, and I call on all the Members present here to distance themselves from populist statements in this context in the future and to pursue this objective together with us. - On the one hand. And on the other hand, today the Council of Ministers of the Generations Check, the Generations Scan, was decided for all the laws. That is why I am concerned because it was not only present at my time, when I was chairman of the Young ÖVP, but was often discussed. Although it has taken a few years to implement this, I am very proud that a commitment has now been achieved in the Council of Ministers. I know that other parties agree to this too. When Secretary of State Haubner was still in office, she was very active herself. I would like to invite all the parties here to participate constructively in the implementation, because I believe that acting politically for young people is then correct and meaningful. gent, if we take into account what lasting consequences the laws that we decide can have for young people. This is relevant for economic decisions, but this is of course also relevant in matters of social justice, and this is relevant in every debate on pensions. I think that to take young people seriously and above all to give them hearing, we have definitely done so in Austria. At European level, this also requires the White Paper on Youth. We have, I believe, become very fair to that. With us, the Austrian Federal Youth Office has a high priority. It has the opportunity to review laws, deliver opinions, and is taken seriously by us more or less than social partners, and I believe that many good ideas have already come from the Federal Youth Office, which have enriched and enriched political events. The Minister of Social Affairs has pointed out – and I give him a hundred percent right, and that is also the 2020 strategy at European level – that the areas of education, training and employment are particularly important when it comes to the good future of young people. The goal, which Mr Mitterlehner, too, aims to know three-quarters of all 20- to 64-year-olds in employment by 2020, is an ambitious one. We should support him. The formulated goal of reaching a quota of 40 percent of university graduates is something that we not only strive for, but that we also work on. This is also shown by the offensive funds we have already decided in 2010 and are being rewritten in 2012, amounting to 80 million for universities and colleges. The most difficult thing we have to do is reduce the school drop rate to less than 10 percent. That's really a challenge. But I believe that with the upgrading of the primary schools that we have decided in recent weeks, but also with the package of measures on which Minister Hundstorfer has already addressed, with this youth foundation, but also with apprentice and youth coaching, we are on the right track. If we continue this path in Austria and do so in all other European countries, I believe that young people in Europe can look to a good future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7351	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7373	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! High house! “The best opportunities for Europe’s youth – employment as a key” is the title of this current hour of Europe, because, ladies and gentlemen from the circle of the EU-phoricians, that is, you from the Socialist Group and the Raiffeisen FC, we feel this title alone as a frog for our young people. You have to say that clearly at this point. I can also provide you with some information and facts about the current labour market situation, in order to show you why we as FPÖ, when the parties of young people in Austria feel this title as frogs. You, Mr Minister, always try to speak well, you are a tricker, but I believe that the Austrians and especially the young people have long exposed you there, at the latest if I present the following information to you: European youth unemployment: in Italy 30 percent, in Slovenia around 15 percent, in Hungary 25 percent, in Slovakia 30 percent, in the Czech Republic 20 percent, in Spain, even every second youth is without employment. Now to Austria, Minister Hundstorfer: 40 000 young people are reported as unemployed, and another 40 000 young people are hidden in any AMS courses, over-company training centres or foundations. That is, in total, we are not talking about 4 to 5 percent of youth unemployment in Austria, but about about 15 percent of youth unemployment. I would like to bring the example of Switzerland to this point. Switzerland is always presented as a bad example by the inactive government. They have a total of 3 to 4 percent youth unemployment. Unfortunately, Switzerland has long stood up to the comparison with Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a particularly perfidious game, if we always hear from the economy, there is a shortage of skilled workers – I believe the economy too – and we, on the other hand, I mentioned earlier, have around 80 000 unemployed young people. And especially the economy is always dreaming of further immigration. So on the one hand, we have 80 000 unemployed young people, and on the other hand, we are constantly yelling after further immigration. We cannot understand this at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the contrary: We demand from the FPÖ a training plan closely coordinated with the economy for at least some of these 80,000 unemployed young people, so that these can be used as skilled workers by the Austrian economy accordingly. I would now like to present to you a few points of an initiative presented with our youth preparatory organisation Ring Freiheitlicher Jugend last week. We are just as we have said for these skilled workers' training initiatives, say a clear yes to teaching. – Mrs Fuhrmann and you too, Mrs Lueger! They always dream of the so-called academic quotas to be increased. That is true, but please finally confess yourself clearly to the teaching and thus also to the skilled workers here in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have long called for the reintroduction of the Blum bonus. It is not until recently that we have been right by the Green Group, but Mr Walser has supported the long-term FPÖ requirement to reintroduce Blum-Bonus, so that companies that are strong for apprenticeship training are given fiscal and tax credits. We demand the equality of pupils with students with respect for students. This too has long been a demand from us. We are also responsible for taking over the costs of vocational schooling by public authorities. The current campaign of the Freedom Youth ring runs under the title “Our Youth Our Money”, which we define and clearly express that we are against transfers of billions of tax assets that are transferred from Austria to Greece and evaporate there in the Aegean like the Greek Ouzo. We don't want that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Coping with our future tasks requires a healthy, well-trained, performance-conscious youth, and it also needs active protection through our adults. Therefore: Set up as a Bun- Finally, the Government's active initiatives in the field of youth! And please spare us and the listeners with such ridiculous pseudoglobules as this current European hour!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7467	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7488	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höbart, you are trying to put the Freedom Youth ring into play somehow as an employment-political explosive is an honorable one, only: The Freedom Youth Ring currently has other problems, and you know that too. [[Abg. Ing. We don't know that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Have you slept badly again, Mr. Ollinger? Have you had another nightmare?]] But be it, we do not want to discuss the Freedom Youth ring, but rather on it and Europe itself is on the agenda. This problem, Mr Federal Minister, so much so that I also appreciate your initiative and welcome you to make an excuse at European level, this problem which Europe is currently facing with its youth, and that is not a small one, will not be able to solve with such an initiative and with the introduction of programmes. For one thing, and you know that too, Minister of State, is clear: Although the European Union would now impose employment policy programmes for young people, it will take years for them to be built up and implemented in the Member States. Europe is now in full play on the future of its youth. This is not yet Austria, and that is the only thing I now agree with you: We are still in a more favourable situation than the other countries, but there is no reason at all to knock on our shoulders and say, Austria, we are the example of the other countries. We are the example. We are now in the process of replicating what you have already said in the meantime the debt brake, the stupidity, the other countries. Now, with your support! There is a State Secretary who said a week ago that he does not consider the debt brake to be the appropriate instrument. If you see what the US has for a problem with its debt brake, which is also laid down in the Constitution, where it will have to be difficult to negotiate, that we can go back to the established borders with legal violations – we have experienced the spectacle a few times in recent years – then you also know that this was not necessarily something that has so to speak increased the US's bonus on the financial markets. You know that, too. If we fail at this border in 2020, which you want to set now, by nearly missing it, what happens then? What happens then? Have you thought about that? Have you considered the sanctions we impose on ourselves? Did you think about it, for example, that we would cut the Federal Government's salaries by half because it didn't make it? That would be a good suggestion. What do we do if we miss this debt brake, which is legally fixed? – But that is still not my most pressing problem. I am the last one who would argue with you about it, of course it makes sense to eliminate debts or reduce the interest burden on Austria, but you also know that if we get over these next years with these debt reduction concepts, then you will punish the youth you are talking about most, because: Where, then, would you like these measures to be effective by 2020? Yes, certainly not in the administrative reduction and in administrative reform programmes that have been conjured for years! Even if you set them up, no cost savings will be effective by 2020. We would be in favour of setting up effective, efficient measures to simplify administration where it makes sense – one cannot simply put imagination numbers in the room here – only: Costs, expenditure will not save us that by 2020. If, then the savings or the effects will come later. So where will be saved by 2020? - Throughout the social field! There comes the generation check or generation scan. Yesterday, you decided that the pension will be increased by “only” 1.5 percent over €5 800. Well, that’s a real “crisis program” obviously for the pensions that are over €5 800. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] No, not over 2,800 – over 5,800 €! And that can't be it: on the one hand, at the universities, to save on education and on the other hand to still finance grants at the highest pensions! You already lost the generation scan before you started it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7554	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7576	Mr President. High house! Maybe the camera can swirl into the SPÖ series once. It would be interesting to see how “severe” the SPÖ takes its own current European hour. Where are your people? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You don't take this seriously at all! One hour of Europe – and you do not talk about Europe at all, but one speaker after another comes out to cheer the Minister of Social Affairs. This is the current European hour of the SPÖ. Obviously, not even everyone in the SPÖ is prepared to cheer Mr Sozialminister, otherwise they would be there. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] So, Mr Cap, a little more. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Let’s start a “joyful hour” with live transmission in the ORF, and the Minister knocks on the belly and says: We're great, and everyone in the SPÖ says: Wonderful, we're great, we're the best! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If I look at the founder alone, the union officer Wolfgang Katzian, and how he came out: Incredible, really impressive! He is for us to continue to give billions of pleite states, he is against budget savings, he is for full employment especially among young people, he is for unabated immigration, he is for the fight against climate change, he is for the fight against world hunger, he is for world peace, he is for the general, worldwide prosperity and – not to forget – for a good future. – End of the quote. So that's my colleague Katzian! [[In the case of BZÖ, as well as detonative accompaniment and bravorage at SPÖ.]] Do you know who reminds me of that? Mr Katzian, you should have been a singer. In Germany a singer is currently performing with it, he is very successful in the charts: Tim Bendzko is his name, and he also says: “Just briefly saving the world”, read “148 713 emails”, “because it happens so much”. But “I’ll be with you.” – Tim Bendzko vulgo Wolfgang Katzian. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not serious to take! If you want to get out and celebrate your jubilation for the SPÖ and for your Social Minister, you say that, but please don't call it "European Hour" and not "Current Hour of Europe", because at present nothing has been done, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do you know what's up to now? It is currently – and it might have been quite good if we had discussed it, and this has been said correctly by Mr Öllinger – that your State Secretary said a week ago: Debt brakes are not in question. And now, at once, there is nothing better and more important than the constitutional debt brake! – We have said that for a long time. So much about topicality. At present, it is only that it has already understood the SPÖ. This is up-to-date, ladies and gentlemen. So much on the topic of current European hours. So at the moment – and this has to be held – it has occurred in this European hour, that the Reds have now understood that they can no longer be indebted and that we need a debt brake, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's great up-to-date. Mr State Secretary, perhaps have You are ready to say how you are currently thinking about it, because just a week ago you did not think as your Federal Chancellor announced yesterday in connection with the current European policy of the SPÖ. Mr Katzian, there is nothing more unsocial – and perhaps this is also an up-to-date knowledge – of making debt, debt for the future, and thus taking every margin for future generations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] Yeah, please, there's a gesture, too. Did you understand? Did this happen now? Did you get that now? But they come out here and want to keep on indebted! You're setting up a budget where you're still in debt. What is “current ”? They continue to play the future of youth, with current debt. [[Abg. Katzian: You know exactly how it is!]] Yes, I know exactly how it is! The Reds distribute sugar at the expense of the future, and then they say they are for full employment of young people. At the moment, you should have made sure that education policy has been different for decades, that we are creating educational elites that have something to do with their knowledge and know-how in the world and are currently producing something for the economy. But instead, do the opposite. You distribute election sugar, you continue to distribute money that you do not have, and now you are still ready to deliver the money to Greece, Portugal, Italy and to any euroland that is currently in trouble. This is current SPÖ future policy. Good night!, I can only say to your actuality.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7671	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7693	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There are a few things straight ahead. Mr Stadler, if you were up-to-date, you would have known for a long time that I was sitting with your party observer in Innsbruck last week at a po-dium discussion and that I had already done a clear confession to the debt brake there for a long time. You're not up-to-date. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A week ago?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: After a week?! Great!]] No, on the same day as Mr. State Secretary, the same day. [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is a party in the house that has a single need, namely Austria supposedly to love, but in fact it is spoken badly by that party daily. That's what you're doing, that's your strategy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] You say here, you know everything. [[Abg. Ing. Hoebart: No one claimed that! But we know more than you do!]] I would have to have 42 000 young people in training to get to your numbers. We only have one problem: It's only 25,000. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: “Only ”?- Oh, my God!]] And the next problem, Mr. Ing. Height: All of Europe is working according to the same statistics, and since I am Minister of Labour, you know for the first time how many participants we have. Point one. And what is so difficult when Europe works according to the same statistics and shows the whole of Europe: How many do we have in training? How many do we have only in unemployment outside our training? What's so hard to understand? And why are you so hard to say in Austria: Yeah, it's only 7.1 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Another one has spoken of 4 percent, you say it's 7 percent!]] Yes, it is also the 7.1 percent too much, but for you the world is only fine when it is 15 percent. And you say here, you love Austria. That is not the purpose and purpose of the action. The purpose of the action is to bring people out of training into employment. 118 000 young people have been since 1. There's another job in this country, and that's what counts! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And if you say here, you love young people, then you know that we already have a vocational training fund via the insolvency fund, and then you also know that vocational school costs are very well paid by the public authorities. Call Your demand directly: It's about boarding. [[Abg. Riepl: But he said “vocational school costs ”! He's confusing everything!]] I'll help you a little because I know what you want. Vocational school costs have always been paid by the public authorities, and you have specifically said vocational school costs here. If you really love the country, you would help to continue to make sure that these numbers remain as low as possible, and do not sue in the imagination, it must be 15 percent, because then the world is fine for you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7838	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. [[11:47:23]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7859	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8014	Mr Fichtenbauer, ladies and gentlemen, asked for urgent consideration of the written question put before the entry into the agenda 9769/J by Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport concerning Causa General Entacher. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8036	The debate on points 1 and 2, 3 to 5 and 7 and 8 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8060	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 “Vienna hours” has been agreed. There are therefore the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 84 minutes, FPÖ 75 minutes, Green 66 minutes, BZÖ 63 minutes. I propose that the speaking time of Members without club membership be limited to 10 minutes per debate. We come to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:49:08]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1494, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which lays down an EU law on State aid and a federal law providing additional funds for the Heat and Refrigeration Management Act, as well as the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Re-foundation Tax Act, the Basic Tax Act 1987, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act, the Foundation Income Tax Act, the Federal Tax Code, the Law on the Enforcement of Jurisdiction, the Law on Jurisdictions and Residences, the Foreign Police Act 2005, the Data Protection Act 2000, the Health and Food Security Act, the Bundesmuseen Act 2002, the Wasserstraßengesetz, the Bundesgesetz on the Austrian Research and Testing Centre Arsenal Society with limited liability, the Austrian Economic Service Act and the Foreign Trade Act 2011 are amended (Budge Accompanying Act 2012) (1500 d.b.) 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1495, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act 2011 (1501 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8120	I call on points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8148	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's okay. Now, finally, SPÖ and ÖVP understand that the hat's state finances are burning. Under the pressure of the EU, the debt brake is now to come. You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, could have had that much earlier, because the FPÖ was the first party in this House to apply for the debt brake in September 2010. At the time, the coalition rejected this – quite the opposite: I've been laughing at by you for this idea! But we were right again. Yes, we can also talk about the debt brake, but under the principle: Our money for our leuks! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, no more funds for euro-debts, no more funds for rescue shields. However: A miracle is not this debt brake from home either, because you already have to work very intensively with it. I was surprised when yesterday, on television – in the news at 10 p.m. – the two political tips of this Republic, namely Mr Faymann and Mr Spindelegger, expressed their desire to have 60 percent of government debt by 2020, as measured by GDP. – I can only say: This is utopia, because that is impossible – and this shows, ladies and gentlemen, how little economic competence German chancellors and vice chancellors unfortunately own God. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The achievement of this objective meant that the budget path decided on, and immediately, must be abandoned, that at least €10 billion in surplus must be achieved annually – and that is, of course, impossible. If you know how this government continues to stand still, it is clear that this is not to be done in the near future. But now to the present budget accompanying law, which is, in fact, a reflection of this government work: Nothing's going on, ladies and gentlemen. Those who have observed the budget negotiations also know why this is so: SPÖ and ÖVP are in the state of war, are in confrontation – and one side gives the other zero success. Commonness looks different, and this is also reflected in the budget accompanying law: Only adjustments to legislation, formal error corrections, but in total no substance. Only the return of the refrigeration supplies – a beautiful word! – the budget is of – at least smaller – importance. Mr Ostermayer, State Secretary, said as follows: We do not need anything in this amount in 2012 because the Loipersdorf decisions have to be implemented, the so-called savings package! – Mr State Secretary, when it comes to asking the people to check out and to reduce social benefits, you are big, there you are active. I should like to remind you of what the Loipersdorf savings decisions have brought to the public: € 2 billion in 180 accompanying laws; Means that were immediately transferred to the Greeks. – We don’t want to do that, because our money is supposed to be for our people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The consequences of your decisions in Loipersdorf: Increase in mineral oil tax, bank taxes, 1 billion € in mass taxes, enormous cuts in the social sector for families – the multiple-child supplement has been reduced for example –, reduction in pensions and care and so on and so on. To do something against the high debt of the state, you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, unfortunately lack courage. In any case, I am eager to see how this will continue with the debt brake to be decided and whether there will be approaches to structures: for example, in the case of hospitals, in the case of important reforms in the school administration, in pension systems, in the case of the implementation of the funding inaction. In any event, I can remember that there is a savings potential of €7 billion in the area of funding insecurity. And there are many, many more ways to save in our state. There is a lot to do, ladies and gentlemen, and many budget-accompanied laws would be the consequence – and not only this mini-law now in force. And because there's a lot to do, that's probably why you leave it now, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8236	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8257	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grazauer, two quotations from your speech. One thing was: They lack the courage to do something about the debt in this country! The other quote was: Your goal, which you have set to come by 2020 at 60 percent, is illusory! – That's just so much: Either we are illusionists or brave, but both will probably go hard. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, yes, you are both!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to announce an amendment and I should like to make the first point in connection with the agreement reached yesterday with the pensioners: The increase in inflation does not get all pensioners; Pensioners in high pensions receive much less than the rate of inflation. And this money, about €15 million, is used to increase pensioners' retirement payments in small pensions on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to enable the tax deductibility of special retirement posts for pensioners to a certain income level. I believe that this is a good compromise, that all this is financed within the group of pensioners and that, despite this improvement, there is no increase in the budget deficit, because this is precisely due to this inflation rate and it is also very important that purchasing power is preserved. On the question of fiscal consolidation and the overall budget: Firstly, if you look at all the key facts, you can see that Austria – whether it is the new debt, the unemployment rate or the debt level – has come much better through the crisis than almost all the other countries of the European Union – and that we will continue this successful path with this budget. [[Abg. Bucher: Extreme debt level!]] Of course, we will continue to ensure that Austria remains among the top performers as far as key key figures are concerned. The Second, we must be very careful now that we know that the economic conditions have become worse than they were last year and last year when it comes to the question of how and where, when additional savings are needed, we need to save. In any case, it will be important to find a good mix of revenue and expenditure measures in order to improve the budget. But it is also very, very important that we pay attention to four things in every measure, whether revenue or expenditure. First: What does that mean for consumption in the country? Secondly, What does this mean for investments by both private households and companies? Thirdly, What does this mean for the employment situation in our country? And what does that mean – fourth – for growth in our country? These four questions will have to be checked in each individual measure, because we cannot make the mistake that many other countries in the European Union have made – and in some cases still do – of saving themselves ever deeper into a crisis and not seeing that a positive development will be possible in one country. [[Abg. Booker: That's what you're doing!]] If we want to run debt reduction, then, Mr Grazauer, you should not forget that, it will only be through economic growth. We don't need €10 billion in surplus per year to reduce the debt, but we need growth, growth, growth to get the debt under control. That is what this Federal Government stands for, and it also has our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8335	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8357	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The agenda now includes the Budgetary Support Act; In fact, previous speakers have already referred to the concept of debt brakes. You will not be surprised that I am doing so, especially as the media can be seen, that the Federal Government is not only having something to do with it, but that has already been decided in the Council of Ministers today, but of course there is already a look at what the whole thing is supposed to become under the title “debt brake” at all. The entrances could still be determined: What's the panic for?, especially in the light of the fact that there were representatives of this federal government and perhaps there are also, I don't know, maybe we hear something reasonable that meant how great and how good Austria stands. Now I'm saying that, too, let's say we're not that bad in substantial data. This is always recognized, at least by the Green Group, here and there. But what's going on now, how You are dealing with this so-called debt brake – and I am turning to the representatives of social democracy and only to those of the ÖVP – is very strange. This has to do with what you have been explaining for years, what you sometimes do with taxpayers for two years, sometimes without taxpayers, at least with party donations violently advertise and posterate, but this is something of nothing to do, Mr Ostermayer and Mr State Secretary arbitration. However, it is better that the Federal Chancellor is not sitting in the “ZiB 2” after yesterday’s appearance, he was pitiful, and rightly so, Mr. Managing Director, right, because you are also one who is constantly telling this in the newspapers, and while ruling somewhere else at some door. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Herbs]] That's not gonna work out anymore. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] That's not going to work out anymore. I believe that this is obscenity in the way social democracy is doing in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You're exaggerating!]] For years, yes, until yesterday – or it was still on Friday; Mr. State Secretary, when did we want to talk? – the world was another, but now it is, at least according to media coverage. I have only seen briefly the draft Council of Ministers decision, but it is perfectly clear what it is about the budget and the debt. What are the debts? – Cumulative deficits composed of different components of the income and expenditure differential. So it is the damn duty of this federal government to say something at last about the dynamics of expenditure development and the dynamics of revenue development and where one wants to intervene. But you shouldn't run around with the debt brake without mentioning it. Now to the ÖVP: I know, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you think that perhaps one must first specify the objective that the two-thirds majority demands so that everyone is forced into something so that something happens. – Yes, it may be, but it’s not enough to say anything has to happen, essentially anything and anything is in the Constitution. This will have clear consequences, however, which you should name here and today, if you are already as heroic as Mr Spindelegger, and you will have the better opportunity to act alongside these hopeful social democratic appearances. It's not that difficult either. That's interesting again: However, the ÖVP, which is in the back of all surveys, is behind all the results of the elections, but is dominated by government policy, including in the area of fiscal justice. Where you're going to win elections. This is a skim, and we're going to clear it down to you now, so we're not gonna like it anymore. If it is true – and since I ask for the counter-proof, Mrs Finanzminister, but do not ask in the league that Greece also becomes a business – that the deficits are nothing but the balance of revenue and expenditure, that is, of course, a surplus of expenditure, then we do not have so many possibilities. The fact that we only grow out of the crisis, Mr Krainer, will not succeed even if one saves exactly in the wrong place. So what is it about? That's what you wanted, I think, to say. The SPÖ proposals alone do not comply with this principle. What is it about? In what places are hopefully and meaningfully saved? Of course, even here we always make our proposals and do not hide ourselves, even as an opposition party. And what happens to revenue? They from the EIA side are more or less sceptical of revenue, that there is only no new taxes coming, nothing, nothing. You don't even want to talk about how at least the tax structure can finally be made fairer in the OECD section, where You otherwise, the OECD, the organisation of economic cooperation, are constantly lagging behind with your arguments, perhaps also quite rightly, even in the efforts to save. When it comes to the tax structure, you don't want to know about it. Austria is the last country in these statistics when it comes to making a contribution to the millions of heirs. We are the last country when it comes to making a contribution to the super-rich, everything exactly your text. Once again to co-write and perhaps to take seriously: When it comes to closing these gaps, of course, both for reasons of justice and for economic reason, because this kind of tax does not damage the economy, then you can tell something else three times. And it will not be any different than to do something in the wealth, because social cohesion is fully collaborating with you, not only in Europe, but also here in Austria. Those who have benefited from this crisis in part even originally bear the much lower burden, although they would remain spared those who could be much better. They always apply only to the normal taxpayer, who, according to these OECD statistics, is the most contributing in Austria, i.e. to earnings and benefits. It's not just about the classic hacker, it's about the income of work, it's about the self-employed. These pay quite, quite a lot of taxes in Austria. That's where we're high tax, you're right. But where justice is concerned, we are a low-tax country to a zero-tax country even if you do not say that something should happen on the side too, that needs to be used massively in order to change this structure and in the direction of less labour, also to go to the earnings of services, Mrs Minister. It cannot be that in this country 4 million can be inherited tax-free – tax-free! – while others have to work for a lifetime and do not deserve it almost, but pay 50 percent with social taxes and with taxes already in this low league. You know that when they earn more, they pay even more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] If a €4 million earns in his life, he's already very good on the go anyway, but the length pays a lot. And that's fair? That's where you run and talk about performance? This is completely in addition, it is quite slanted. You know this very well in the ranks of social democracy. I hope you believe your own posters. However, you are well advised if you do not believe anything more to your government representatives, otherwise you would appear differently in this debate. It will be our lawyer's office that we not only look at it, but also fight for it to come. Otherwise, it is impossible to explain that you Night under the alleged pressure of credit rating agencies, which you had previously been defying as incompetent, and they are also incompetent, none of them rated the Greek papers three years ago differently than the German, now under the bank, even if you do so. [[the speaker is demonstratively restricting his hands]] In front of the credit rating agencies who want to know nothing about the entire American Subprime Crisis, which have still best rated the papers there, so that they can still infect the financial system throughout Europe, go to the knees. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: No!]] Yeah, not no, but yes, that's your problem. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] With you from the SPÖ there is still the credibility gap; the ÖVP is at least consistent as a party of the super-rich. It is enough, so it is, and now you can stand up at the FPÖ and at the ÖVP, we will not refuse negotiations when it comes to a two-thirds matter, not now, but the whole has to be put on the feet of the head. There is a need for market principles to be applied here again, for power incentives, but at last it also needs to close the gap of justice, because otherwise, I do not say savings packages, I say reduction packages. Where it would have been useful to save, leave it out regularly. Now again this page is better off because the ÖVP heads of state have so far blocked everything that would once be reasonable in this Republic. [[The speaker points to the side of the ÖVP ministers on the government bank]] They're not going through. Mr. Ex-Vicekanzler Pröll has failed, not in any way, but in your own country leaders. Tell me what it is! And there is the problem that where there can really be saved, there is no saving, even in the school administration – district school councils en masse, district school inspectors, state school councils: everything for the fish, should be set up differently, is much cheaper to organize. Where's that? [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Super!]] 50 million net effect. - Zero, nothing! It's much worse in the health system. Not that we need to reduce the benefits in the health field, but it is simply about catching up on the cost dynamics, and it is about 2020, it is always about the dynamics. It is about keeping services and services semi-stable. The system is not bad – again at this point – but the costs are running from it. It wouldn't have to be that way. This is only the case because there is a huge planning confusion and planning deficit. Why? – Because you cannot oblige the heads of state to do so within 20 kilometres, just as it is in my home country, Oberwart and Hartberg, I trust to say so too... – Mr. Lopatka is just not there, he was actively involved in the fact that all departments are being upgraded on one side and on the other, because a Burgenländer should not be treated in Styria and the Steirer cannot be taken over in the Burgenland, although at this point you can go back and forth with the wheel. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Fresh but not operating!]] Maybe not the sick one right now. But it's very easy to drive that way. If I drive 20 kilometers within Styria with the Rescuer, this is obviously a short distance. But if I drive five kilometers and across the border, it's a long distance. It's about nonsense that you can't fix or don't want to fix. And if you don't name that, then leave this debt brake to stay, then admit that you are not able to do so because otherwise it will lead to the wrong place being reduced again, namely to what people need, because you are unable to access the right one. This is the problem, and this has to be addressed. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] So: This debt-braking debate may be useful, should be useful, but we are not at our disposal if you are unable to announce the necessary accompanying measures now and in time. And it is precisely about saving in the right place, but it is also about finally talking about where taxes are collected in the country, which is always exactly where too much is already being collected, and not where there is something to pick up. And that's ÖVP pure! Please, in front of the curtain, Mr. Head!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8493	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8515	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mag. Of course, I don't need good advice from Kogler, I know. But, Mr Mag. Kogler, if you have called with great paint: It's enough!, then let me tell you, I'd be careful with such calls, I'm speaking from experience! We have not had good experiences with “it is enough. ” [[General hustle and bustle.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are actually discussing the budget accompanying law, although other issues here dominate, such as tax reform issues, the question of public debt. As one who likes to discuss tax reforms, let me say one thing: In my opinion, the present time is completely wrong for a tax reform, especially for a public debate on it. I am very much in favour of a working group of experts working well and intensively in the Ministry of Finance, but I consider a public debate on a tax reform to be absolutely harmful at this time. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Put in a commission!]] If the discussions go towards tax increases, they damage the economic location and insure investors, go towards discharges, raise expectations that are not feasible, because we have no money for discharges, you have to be so open and honest. That is, work yes, but no major public announcements towards tax increases or tax reliefs. Unfortunately, the time is not suitable for this. [[Abg. Bucher: What about the debt brake?]] The second major issue, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, government debt currently dominates every issue, and it is understandable if today, in the morning in the Council of Ministers, the government decides on this debt brake. This is a subject that will be in the debate today. I must honestly say that I think this is a great progress, because even if we can of course argue that it is the bad banks, the bad financial markets, the evil speculators, then I can only say that there is a simple means against it: to keep state finances in order. Then I don't need to be afraid of the bad banks, of the evil speculators and of the bad financial markets. I can also say, of course, that compared to the euro zone, we are still well in place anyway, we have a government debt of 74.6 percent, the euro zone on average of 90.3 percent. But that doesn't help me much, ladies and gentlemen. And that is why I think it is perfectly correct that this step has been taken today to include the debt brake in the Constitution, which is again related to what we have already done through the Federal Financial Framework Act, which is rightly on the side of the task. So I see the debt brake in connection with the Federal Financial Framework Act, which places the focus on the expenditure side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] For all experience says, Mr. Cot: If you have the expenditure under control, then you usually have the budget under control – this is also a rejection of tax increase philosophy, as some people say. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That the debt brake has something to do with the revenue side...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a plan step by step here. The first point would be, and I know I already admit that, there's no consensus yet: I would think it is at least right at this time if we were to decide on Friday on the 3% budget commitments. I think it would be right in today's situation to decide. The second step is that we are going to decide on these debt brakes this year, and thirdly, it is right that at the beginning of next year we will have to decide very quickly on measures that take account of this debt brake, not at all. And that we have savings potential here, ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be disputed at all. Let's just look a little beyond the edge of the plate. I just remember that has been mentioned many times, the actual retirement age. Our German neighbours actually retire three years later. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] The three years mean that we spend €3 billion each year more than the Germans because of the early retirement, 3 billion we are missing, Mrs Colleague, for research, science, the environment and so on, we are missing. Now we're looking at the health sector. I only mention facts and facts. According to an OECD statistics, there are 3.9 hospital beds in OECD average per 1 000 inhabitants, rather than 3.9 in Austria, but 6.1. There you can certainly make efficiency improvements. Let us look at the funding rate: in the EU 2.7 percent of GDP, in Austria 5.5 percent. So just three examples of where you have to say, please, there are the savings potential on the table, since I do not need to think of tax increases. I am concerned that we will first benefit from the savings potential. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: Step by step, the Minister of Finance has said about administrative reform!]] – Mrs Glawischnig, see that you are doing something in Vienna, then you can talk! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As long as we do not benefit from these savings potentials, I mean, there is no right at all to go towards debt reduction here with tax increase proposals. [[Abg. Krainer: But really not!]] Here, saving does not mean saving the health, saving the promotion. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where do you want to save? Make a few suggestions!]] That means using only the resources more efficiently, Mrs Colleague, you are studying the business economy! Use the funds more efficiently, do not save. That's polemic, what you're saying, you're just polishing. All I say is that we have to use the funds more efficiently, and we will also be fulfilling the debt brake with concrete life.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8642	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8663	Mr President. It's adventurous, I really have to admit that! A few days ago, at the last session, you came out to the speaker's desk and said we don't need a debt brake, we have a modern budget law, we don't need a debt brake. Now suddenly the change. Over the night, the ÖVP has gratified, understanding that the debt brake is an important signal for investors, for financial markets, to create trust. We've been saying that since 2009! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You don't have to shake your head. There are indeed requests on the committee which have been postponed by you. The most pitiful thing is that we are constantly being given right behind the front hand when in the committees we place our demands that you come to us afterwards and say that you are actually right, great demands that have been implemented, but that everything is refused at the speaker's desk and then the consent is refused. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] This is an arrears that the citizens of our country are tired of. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is typical for the ÖVP! That's the ÖVP, that's the real face of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It's an insanity to read the vice chancellor in the “ZiB 1” today in the print media: We realized we had to do something. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, where was the vice chancellor all the years before? Was he abroad? He should come here to listen to the debates we are having! This is about the future of the next generations! A record debt due to young people, children and children! That's the reality! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yes, how can you of the ÖVP represent that to your members? What say ye then, when they go on to you with these arguments, and say for God's sake, ye paving, ye pledge our whole land!Unknown term type: "%s".? What do you say to them? – Yes, we can't do anything because we can't convince the SPÖ. – Yes, then, from the government, that would be consistent once, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[Lively condolences with BZÖ.]] You are not able to rule this country, that is reality! Finally take the hat, and Mrs Finanzminister should start today! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We have therefore prepared a motion of censure: Get out of office, you are not able to reduce the debt, you are not able to reduce the deficit, you lack the impact, the ideas! You are planless, you are no longer portable for anyone in our country, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8731	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8752	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] The Government template 1494 of the Supplements amends to the 2012 budget a number of federal laws that serve to implement our budget path. In particular, administrative cooperation arrangements are designed to ensure tax revenue. However, with regard to the measures to the EU Voluntary Assistance Act, I would like to point out that we should also strive to enable the implementation of social security contributions in other EU Member States. On this occasion, I am also entitled, appropriate to the subject of social security contributions and pensions, to the following amendment by Mr Jan Krainer, Mag. Gertrude Aubauer, colleagues on the proposal for a budget accompanying law 2012 – 1494 d.b. – in the version of the 1500 d.b. Committee report. Put it in second reading and explain it in the cornerstones, since the request is long enough for it to be distributed in writing, Mr President. [[President Neugebauer: Yes!]] The first part concerns a change to the Income Tax Act 1988. This will be the implementation of the results of yesterday's negotiations, with regard on the one hand to the single-earner or the single-earner withdrawal amount, in relation to the pensioner's retirement allowance. The aim is to ensure that tax benefits are maintained, in particular in the case of potting expenditure and in the case of exceptional charges in relation to the single wage reduction amount which would have been lost due to the disappearance of this amount and that the people concerned are not worse. The pension allowance is increased from € 13 100 to € 19 930 per year if the partner does not earn more than € 2 200 per year. There is also a change to the AWS law. Here, in turn, a removal of a provision that has gone too far and so that one actually achieves the desired equal treatment with the Austrian Research Funding Society. The third amendment concerns a change to the Foreign Trade Act. In sectors which are of central importance to public security and order in Austria, in particular security of supply, the acquisition of shares in Austrian companies by persons or companies from third countries is becoming increasingly important. It is important here to introduce European-law control mechanisms that prevent the fundamental interests of Austria from being affected by such acquisitions. It is necessary to put in place this amendment in order to implement the measures I have just mentioned in the key points. Allow me a word on the budget, because a few points have already been mentioned here. For me, it was very crucial that the expert hearing clearly stated that stabilisers such as pensions and unemployment insurance are not only an essential factor in economicly lativating times, but that they have also contributed to a stronger deduction of debt in economic positive times. With regard to debt brakes and savings measures, it depends on how we save. Save yes, but intelligent! If we know that 50,000 people who come out of unemployment in employment are burdening the budget by €1.3 billion a year, then we know how much growth-enhancing impulses are, because they also ensure employment. We confess to a broken, reasonable, human-righteous and socially just savings.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8807	The amendment is sufficiently explained, it has been distributed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9422	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9443	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Bank! It's almost exhilarating when you see how the SPÖ group has hit a pirouette lately. Just two weeks ago – and also a long time ago – when we asked for a debt brake, you've defyed us. Now, at once, this is the most important thing to do in the shortest time! We need to see the whole budget problem in a European context at the end of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, why do we have it very fast now? First of all: Europe has now more or less forced us to introduce a debt brake. Secondly, development in Europe is bringing us to such an extent that we can no longer get out of it now. When I look at this: In our budget figures, we still have an increase of 0.8 percent; we already know that this will be no longer to be kept. Italy alone will tear us in: We must be aware that Italy is our second largest economic partner! Italy is, as it currently looks, unable to solve its problems in the event of an entry. There will also be no further use for the entire European lifeguard. The European politicians are already much further, if I look at what is already being thought about in Germany. A well-known newspaper writes: ‘Germany is preparing to leave Greece from the euro zone’. According to a study, there is also a clear indication that the Eurozone would be even stronger without its weakest link. There are quite scenarios for which you can say that this works. But the euro bureaucrats do not want to realize that they have gone in the wrong direction and that they have been running! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How much Italy has an impact on us is already seen in the discussion on Bank Austria or UniCredit, which will also operate massive job losses in Austria. You can assume that. If I imagine Italy spending 15 percent of its GDP on interest rates, I know one thing very well: If we lose our “AAA”, we can assume that we are 3 billion – I say 3 billion! - have more interest to pay. We will still be discussing Mr Darabos today: This is the one and a half of our defense budget, which we have more to pay! There really belongs to a corresponding concept, and there the dog is buried in the pepper. I say that very clearly to you: At least accompanying measures are necessary with the debt brake! Regardless of the debt brake that needs to be introduced, we have been calling for the final end for more than a year now to finally take up a proper administrative and structural reform. There must no longer be a brake on the heads of state which includes them. Finally, communities too must make their contribution to this. [[Abg. Christ: Tell your Styrian colleagues about the FPÖ!]] Above all, we must also search through the subsidy jungle. It is not enough for us to introduce a transparency database, but it must also be used at the end of the day. Just as she's now decided, she's a toothless tiger! I say it again: It is perfectly clear to me that all these measures are now being taken out of the question, because you believe that this will calm the markets a little. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that your will for renovation is yet to come. Really put clear signs and don't just make lip confessions! I guarantee one: At the latest when it comes to leading the first distribution struggles, this government will go back in.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9486	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9507	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The budget accompanying law, which we are dealing with today, is part of our 2012 budget. We have already heard it: simply a budget of the feasibility, which also includes important measures that are now necessary for our country. Mr Podgorschek has just said: We are still one of the countries that have an “AAA” and it is very important that we get it. The measures we are taking here are also to be seen among these points of view. It is the “AAA” that is essential for the economic location and, of course, for the proper budgetary policy of our federal government. We also have a good employment situation, and we have a good consumption demand. Mr Kogler has confirmed this. We still have a small advantage in Austria, and I think it is important that we receive it. But it is also clear that in Austria it cannot go well in the long term, if a) Europe is going badly and if we are not dealing with the necessary reforms in our own country. That is why we must also be interested in Austria to see Europe coming out more of the crisis than it has entered. This means no more and no less than: Europe must become a stability union! That is to say, we must find viable solutions for countries with high debt and prevent this crisis from spreading to other countries. As a small Austrian, we have a great responsibility here too, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard this today, and I invite all the constructive forces to work out solutions here together. We need a rethink. We have a debt ratio of 73 percent; everyone knows that's too high! That's why it's important to permanently dismantle this debt mountain. A first measure is the debt brake, which is important. Other European countries have already shown it: The Germans have introduced them, the Spaniards and others are on their way. Ladies and gentlemen! Debt reduction is the highest commandment of the hour. We also need to see that our young generations still have a chance for a future that can be financed, that we will give them a financial margin. We must also insist on international competition. If some communicate that we alone can do anything better if we believe that we are on an island of the Blessed without euro and without EU, then I can only say one thing: We're certainly not! Because we are in the heart of Europe, in the middle of the event and in the middle of competition, and we also have the best opportunities to exist in this international competition if we do our homework here. Mr Bucher, your artificial excitement, which has ended in a strong artistic presentation, I cannot fully understand. [[Abg. Grosz: What does “artificial excitement” mean in these billions of debts?- Oh, my God!]] I would say quite honestly that I think we should work together so that we can find constructive solutions here under the motto “renew rather than tax” because that would be the right currency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: More taxes instead of renewing?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are also introducing an amendment to the economic location with this budget accompanying law. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: More taxes?]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] I said “renewal instead of tax”, Mr Westenthaler, to be very careful! Today, we are introducing an amendment with the aim of ensuring the introduction of a preventive control mechanism for the acquisition of Austrian companies by foreign investors. This makes an important contribution to the fact that such acquisitions do not endanger, but safeguard, the fundamental interests of Austria and its location. We ensure that strategic acquisitions by foreign competitors do not go uncontrollably across the stage. Finally, I have a little quote from an artist because I think... [[Abg. Booker: A four-liner?]] [[Abg. Grosz: How about colleague Grossruck?]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It would be a joy to experience if everyone only half of what they ask of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9620	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9641	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Yes, the budget accompanying law contains a lot of adjustments, to simplifications that make sense. The last amendment mentioned by Mr Haubner is something that we can certainly support in this form. If there can be a veto at the Ministry in relation to important companies operating in general care, that makes sense. But now to the general and debate on debt brakes, revenue and expenditure, first of all to the expenditure side. Today, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Yes, my colleague, we have been hearing nothing since 2008 – there are the first studies – about how to light the jungle in Austria! More than €15 billion, according to the expertise, are running in corporate funding, and the economic research institute sees structural over-funding. Mr President, where are the ideas? If colleagues walk with them last week and say, well, you can sit down!, we miss the steps that are actually being taken here. If we are on the expenditure side, then the very central areas that can certainly bring us a profit to consolidation in this form. Now to the revenue page. If I'm talking about revenue, I have to talk about it, of course. How do you revive the economy? How does innovation come about? What can I do? – I am immediately involved in research and development. Mrs Minister, many weeks ago, eight weeks ago, you joined the public with the idea of abolishing the lid in order research. It has also been announced that this is reflected in the debate on the budget accompanying laws. In this form it can't be found again! This is what irritates the economy, the companies, the research institutions, the universities when always the offensive is talking about and when announcements are made that ultimately do not really come to implementation, although this is actually an area that would certainly support us for innovation. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter:... implemented!]] I think the highest command in the present hour must be: Future investment and future investment! That means, of course: Investment in education, childcare, research, universities. Summa summarum can also be found in this form not in this presentation of the budget accompanying law. We have enough opportunity in the next few days to discuss this more intensively. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Believe me, the people outside, the citizens very well understand changes and savings. Only do they want speed to be made in the areas that really are at their heart, and they miss that in this budget. In this respect, I think there will be an opportunity, with amendments tabled by the Greens, to make massive improvements here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9686	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please. Mr. Kirchgatterer? - I don't. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9713	Mr President. High house! The BZÖ is apparently ahead of the time, whereas the SPÖ is still a little behind. It is the 2012 budget accompanying law on debate. The 2011 Budgetary Accompaniment Act was hardly excessive in atrocities: Just think of the cuts for families, for commuters, for students who were decided by the government last year! The budget needs to be renovated – but the budget shows an image that can be described in this way: This government lives on pump! There is no change. In fact, in the budget accompanying law, this change would have to be reflected financially in the figures of the 2012 budget. Just, Mrs. Finanzminister, we don't find anything! You're living on pump. They're not making reforms. They endanger the future of this country, the future of children and also of youth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with a budget deficit of €9.2 billion, you can't really talk about a success! Also, your own institutions of the social partners – the IV, the Chamber of Commerce, the ÖGB and also the AK – are critical of this budget. They spend over 30 percent on pensions, debt reduction, strongly rising. We're a top tax country, almost 45 percent we've already reached. We spend 7.8 billion on interest; for compulsory education, together with science and research, we spend 7.6 billion – that is less for the future than we have to pay for the past! For the debt brake: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if you present this today as a great insight – Josef Bucherund das BZÖ have already applied for this two years ago! Today I read in the newspaper, in the ‘Press’, that Mr Spindelegger states: We need to do something. - Yes, we have to do something! This ÖVP has been in the Federal Government for 25 years, this ÖVP has been entrusted almost exclusively with the Ministry of Finance for 25 years. Why didn't you do anything in the past? Why have you waited so long for you to finally do something and get smarter? As far as the debt brake is concerned, I'm excited about how it is executed. As of 2017, it will be taken – that is, you are waiting for five years to finally take reform measures until you finally start to save on a constitutional provision! Why don't you start now, today, 2012, Mrs. Finanzminister? – Now she's gone again; no, she's behind me. Therefore, I believe that a debt brake is the right way, but the execution will show whether it will be well implemented. In this country, we need a policy that tells people the truth: It is to be saved that there are reforms to be made, but the one who brings performance is also to be rewarded, through a corresponding tax reform. This is what I am going to do in the course of these discussions. That means we have to save and reform: We have to save health, the school councils have been addressed in the field of education, as there are savings potentials. The pension or social security institutions were also addressed. The political area is being ruled out at all. We have great molochs such as the Land Days and the Federal Council, which, as one has to say, is in principle completely “for the sausages”. Why do we have a party promotion that exploits? Why do we have funding in the economic sector, in the environmental field, where we support pollution rights abroad with hundreds of million euros, even though the money then goes off with us? Why does this government invest €40 million in Euratom? Why are you sending billions to the euro save screen or to Greece, although you know exactly that the money is no longer coming back, and that without any condition? They go out to Brussels and simply agree with it unconditionally. This is a way we cannot support! On tax reform: Mrs Minister, we do not find anything in this budget either. We need a flat tax that relieves performance carriers, relieves the families that animated the middle class, the hard-working, the skilled again, to do something to keep them in their pocket. Unfortunately, we do not find all of this in these budget approaches or in the budget accompanying law. That means you're in truth like the captain of Titanic: You're leaked and you'll destroy this state if you continue this policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, there can be only one thing: It is true that against this policy of reform, against this standstill policy, this policy of refusing the future of this government can only be a choice. One possibility or part of it is the request for distrust against this Minister of Finance. That is why I put the following: Request for Distrust The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Finance is hereby appointed as a member of the European Parliament. 74 para. 1 B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, does not give rise to confidence.’ Mrs. Minister, take care of the gravel in your gravel pit, but leave the “chosen”, the taxpayers’ money in peace! You can't!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9814	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9872	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9893	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Appreciate High House! I actually wanted to talk today about the budget accompanying law and the question of AGES funding, because there are very significant changes in these points. I am very grateful to our Mrs. Federal Minister for Finance that these changes will come in the AGES funding. [[Abg. Petzner: Farmers' Federation! Say something to the Farmers' Federation!]] I would now like to say a word on what Mr Widmann has now brought. A mistrust against our Mrs. Federal Minister Maria Fekter, this is the last thing that has to come from the BZÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is really the last one that a party has had to present that has contributed every financial sin in that country! I can still remember Mr Bucher standing out there and behind him Karl-Heinz Grasser. Bucher, the noble defender of Karl-Heinz, who knows nothing more today, is always deep inside where money is destroyed in this country. That really hurts me, I can't let it sit on us like that! So this misunderstanding, that's the last thing the BZÖ had to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Are you just talking about Strasser?! Or from?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the budget accompanying law, which is the day after the Federal Government unanimously announced that the debt brake should be implemented. For all those who can't imagine what that is, I have a brief reference to the history of the AGES: 1. June 2002, good idea of Federal Minister Molterer: In this area, the state tasks are merged. – Today we have a hand in the entire chain of food, health, pharmacy, veterinary, including control of infectious diseases, a compressed knowledge and expertise in a home. 18 institutes were merged. That was a difficult process, but that means, in fact, governing: Reforms are carried out where old habits cause costs. The result today is that in some parts of these AGES we have shown very well that we can do more with significantly less money. In other areas, more money is needed because new tasks have been added. But one thing is quite certain: We have shown that this method makes it possible for Austrians to have more safety, more knowledge for Austrians about their food, and, in fact, the economic location of Austria is strengthened from agriculture to food processing to food trade, until the consumer. Reasonable policy is nothing but on the one hand to recognize the problems, to accept the challenge and to solve them with better performance. This is not done with keywords, but it is done where people use their power. [[Abg. Petzner: Are you still saying something to the peasantry?! On the reforms in their own ranks?- Oh, my God!]] You of the opposition have it easy: lots of screaming, big theater. Thank God you don't have to do anything, and I think the voters will make sure that they do the same. Ladies and gentlemen! The Republic organizes many units where we do nothing but improve the service to people. Our task is to continue this in a continuous and very serious reform process in the near future. These are nothing more than the good objectives of the ÖVP. It is about making security visible to people; it is about improving the development of state institutions; and it is simply about not covering problems with money, but dealing with them by performance – an old approach of the ÖVP, for Austria the right thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9972	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9993	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of the law on budget support and the Federal Finance Act has actually produced relatively little in the Committee. We discussed and discussed some adaptations to the EU directives, the ‘fridge pickerl’. Apparently, the members of the government have recognized that this is not the case, because today we can read in the media that Mr. Vice-channer Spindelegger says we have recognized that we must do this, we have recognised that we have to take in a debt brake, and we have also recognized the need to reduce debt. - So far, so good. This does not sound bad at all, and from then on the old-known uncanny spectacle of this government begins again. The vice chancellor lets the SPÖ align: We will save, at the pensions and at the ÖBB. In the same breath, the Managing Director lets herbs realign: Wait, we're going to save on agriculture. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). breakfast yesterday: Yeah, we're going to save, but we have to introduce the rich tax. I believe that this spectacle is a continuation of the last sub-chapter finance committee, where the Minister of Finance has permanently set up the SPÖ in a very superior way, which is wrong with them, where there are potential savings in the areas of SPÖ. Only in these circles did she look for the mistakes, until then Kai Jan Krainerimmer made calls again, where there is something to save over there. I think, ladies and gentlemen, as an opposition politician, nothing better can happen to us than a government that is constantly focusing on the media, who is doing what is wrong and who does not bring it on. As a citizen, I believe that this is a game of mourning for our country when, through permanent disputes, there are no results through permanent alignment of the media. [[In the case of the FPÖ, the members of the BZÖ and the Agg. Tadler]] I can tell you one thing: I'm the mayor of a small community. If this happened to me, that we would be constantly turning anything over the newspapers and not going on, the citizens would have chased us out of the community with the wet squat. I think that should be an indication to the government. If you think today that this debt brake is coming, we are in favour of it, just: A debt brake without measures, without sanctions, is pointless. We have experienced it at the last budget. The Vienna elections alone have been enough to break the Constitution and start the budget later. I think, Mr Peter Haubner, that one would be to say finally. If you demand today, everyone should do only half as much as he asks of the others: I believe that the government should show only half as much willingness and will to cooperate as many small councils do, then it would be a great success for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10050	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10072	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Linder, there are no differences of opinion yet. I think it's good if there are different opinions to get to a right one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. - That's right!]] We should talk about the budget accompanying law today. A few comments on this: The single-earner discount rate for small pensions is being reintroduced, and this is good, unfortunately with the delay by one year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Chef: Bravo!]] A sentence for AGES financing. Thank God it is also in here that AGES funding is guaranteed for the next few years, because this agency for health and food safety offers something essential to everyone, not only to the farmer but also to consumers. There is a small drop in value. The Minister of Health must pay 70 per cent, but only 50 per cent. It should be considered whether it would be appropriate to get to a similar starting point. My previous speakers have all made the debt brakes the subject. You could almost mean: Let us quickly decide on the budget and then talk about the debt brake and the savings package! The first would be clear definitions. What does debt brake mean and what does savings package mean? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Reverse!]] How do these two terms intertwine? The citizens do not at all know what will happen to them now. That it is necessary to save, that has been agreed at EU level. That's good. It is only a shame that the same agreement does not also lay down rules on financial markets and the introduction of the financial transaction tax. You should have decided to do this again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bucher and Mr Mag. Kogler.]] Unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office of the Council is not here. He meant that now is not the right time to talk about tax increases. Mr President, my question is: When do you think is the right time to talk about just property taxes? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's where you have to get on the table!]] I think if now is the time to save and slow down the debt, then it must also be possible to talk about distribution justice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have a word from Mrs Financiary Minister from the Financial Committee or from the budgetary discussions in the ear when she meant that basic tax would be good, because land and land cannot escape. – This is acceptable, Mrs Finanzminister, but you have also said that you want to transfer this basic tax to country competence. Here I ask you: No, the basic tax must remain a tax on the municipalities, because the municipalities are the worst of all public households at the moment. I do not think it is good to transfer this tax back to national sovereignty and then beg the communities to survive. [[Abg. Strache: What is the logic?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Bucher, if you accuse the ÖVP that it is somehow wrong here and that it is right behind the suggested BZÖ, then you are actually doing exactly what you blame the ÖVP. You must also say who says that and who gives you the right, and not put such suspicions in the room. I don't think that's good for a cooperation. [[Abg. Bucher: What did I say?- Oh, my God!]] – You said that in your speech today. You have said that there are ÖVPler who are right behind your proposals. Then tell me! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10211	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10232	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Just a few words to increase the basic salary of the federal museums, because this too is a law of association. Even though it seems to be a marginality – one could say that it is about ridiculous € 2 million – it is symbolic and very characteristic of the missing financial policy that is being made here, ladies and gentlemen! While even in the cultural field everyone has to save and somehow “freak” themselves, and for years now, for almost decades now, because inflation is not paid off, there are quite a few, and these are generally the state-owned ones that are preferred. Not only because inflation is paid off, so it is valorised, but then they get something more. It is the Austrian gallery in the Belvedere, which now opens an exhibit more or less with the 21er Haus. Now you can say if we build it, we have to play it, and that costs more money. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us look at how the development of this building took place. In 2006 the first time was a plan at the table. This 21st house should have cost €11 million, of which the federal government would have taken over €4 million, and the rest would have been shot privately. In 2008, two years later, it was already €17 million that were projected, and the federal government should have taken over €8 million. One year later, in 2009, it was €24 million. And now we are at €31 million in construction costs, of which the federal government takes over €28 million. The rest also do not take over the private, as we know. In one word: There's given to those who already have. There is money spent where you want, Minister of Finance, that is not a question at all, and not where it is needed. No one needs to tell me that for art money also has to be spent, but there are urgent needs, namely, where many “work on gums”. We already have five museums for contemporary art, and now we have just got one. I think that is the wrong financial policy, Mrs Minister, the savings package and the debt brakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10274	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10296	Mr President. High house! I've been listening to the opposition all morning, and I have to say there's debt allotments and party political hack. Is that what's going on? I'm sure not. The enormous challenges of our time can only be overcome together, and I am convinced of that. Let's keep in mind: In our beautiful Austria, the debt mountain is growing dramatically. Stacked in 500 € shams, each year debt in the amount of the Ötscher added. The Ötscher is almost 1,900 meters high. That's probably not how it goes! [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] What do we need? We need the debt brake. The financial world should know, we're serious about saving. What do we need? The generation scan for the budget! All laws should be examined to see how they affect the individual generations. Who's the use of this? It's useful to all of us. We want to know where our tax money is going. This brings more transparency and greater justice, because we do not want to live at the expense of our children. That's not what the seniors want, and they don't. Current evidence is the 2012 pension adjustment. Nearly 95 percent of all pensioners will be compensated for, 2.7 percent plus for the majority of pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen! That's fair. But that also proves: The seniors negotiate with an eye measure. They think of the next generations and of the state now. A great success for us seniors is that the single-earner discount is granted up to €1,750 again. For this we have worked together with many actions and with thousands of seniors. Repairs in the tax area are also necessary, namely in the case of potting expenditure and in the case of exceptional loads. I express my thanks to the Minister of Finance Maria Fekter and her expert, Dr. Baumann-Söllner. What's this about? Alone earners should keep tax benefits as much as before the removal of the single-earner discount. So that means again low self retention, for example, with tooth replacement and glasses. This also means, for example, that barrier-free conversions can again be reduced to a higher degree from the tax. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not want to live at the expense of our children, nor do we. That is why it makes sense to support this amendment today. I would like to invite you very cordially!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10347	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10368	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Colleague, I am also very much in favour of avoiding party-political hack as far as possible in important debates here, especially when it comes to the future of Austria, but, of course, just as you and some previous speakers of your group and, in part, the Social Democrats have done, it is not possible, namely, to find out and say: The debt mountain is growing more and more. 10 billion per year. It can't go on like this! Yes, you have our support, and if you invite us all to do something together, then you will also have our support to go out here and criticise this debt mountain, but will vote on the next Friday on a budget that will increase this debt by another 10 billion, which is probably not a credible policy as it expects the people of you and of all of us. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] And that's the problem. That something must be done in the case of pensions, health, administrative reform, yes, we have heard that for three years now. But you're in the government, it's your government representatives who tell us again and again why it's not possible. The administrative reform has been cancelled by you because you cannot stand up to the resistance of the countries. There's a doctor in health. In education, you do not even make it possible – we do not even talk about a truly modern system – to ensure that teachers can be present in school during the working hours they have and for which they are rewarded. That's why it's already failed with these little things. Or school reform: There are – and this has already been addressed today – all these levels of administration that are still coming from the monarchist period If you say the opposition is invited to cooperate: Why treat You do not, or do you collectively reject, these thousand requests contained in the committees, instead of really putting together and trying to realize the common good ideas together? If, for weeks and months, you ignore the critical points that we have also brought in from the BZÖ and move into the ridiculous, such as the debt brake now, and then suddenly come up with it, yes, it is necessary now, and then pretend as if you had always been to it, then this is not the credibility that is required of you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But we learned something: We have learned that the climate in the coalition seems to be not so good, because we heard yesterday from the Vice-Cancellant that he has come up with something to do, and today we have heard a few hours ago that Social Minister Hundstorfer knows for a long time that this is necessary, namely for a week. He said he didn't know it until yesterday, but a week ago he knew he needed a debt brake. That's the level you're acting on! [[Abg. Bucher: But the arbitrator did not know!]] Did you know, Mr. State Secretary? A week ago or even since yesterday? I mean, it's all incredible. You really need a credit rating agency – which is rightly criticized for everything that is listed there – and now, at once, it is a matter of anchoring a debt brake in the Constitution. How that should work, however, it is not said. But today you are adopting a budget accompaniment law, which is usually the core debate of a budget debate, where the major reforms of the next year are properly anchored, such as tax reliefs, sometimes there were also tax packages, major reforms, pension reforms. This is the debate in the budget accompanying laws. What do we have today? – Four days you have had a review. There is the Wasserstraßengesetz, the Bundesmuseen-Law, the Customs Act, the EU Voluntary Aid Act. Well, that's not really dramatic, of course. And on Friday, you'll decide a budget we all already know it won't be up-to-date! But that would be the interesting thing now. It's not just that you're getting into it that you have to stop the debt, but You should also stop this budget accompanying law! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Also stop this not up-to-date budget and really enter into a quick dialogue with us from the opposition so that we can make nails with heads too! & Move Don't go to the year after the election, but go on to make Austria really fast in the future! It's right, we're not that bad, but we want to get the best credit, and we also want to make sure that the Austrian youth still has a future here in Austria. This cannot be postponed to the day after the election, but if you have finally come upon it that it is necessary, then we make it the same and do not adopt laws here which are already outdated with the decision-making.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10423	Mr Ostermayer spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10444	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with Mr Scheibner. We want to get the Triple A!, that's a wonderful sentence. We also don't want to even discuss it, because we're afraid it can become a self-fulfilling prophecy. But I'd like to find out a few things right now. That's the reason for my speech. One point is the discussion on debt rules. There has been a proposal from the Minister of Finance a few weeks ago, there has been a proposal by the Secretary of State, who has had a Euro summit where the Heads of Government have agreed on certain rules of play. We have discussed constructively with each other, and this coalition has shown that it brings something together at this point too – as with many other points. I can, by the way, make further information on the occasion. At the beginning it was something like a paternity dispute: Who invented that? Who is the Inventors of debt rules, debt brakes? I can tell you. We have decided for a variety of reasons and after a long discussion, after considering the advantages and disadvantages of the various proposals which have existed, for one that has already proved itself, namely the rule in German law, that is, the German debt brake rule, and we have decided to adopt this version because it knows the so-called market because there is confidence in it. And the question of paternity, who invented it, I can also answer you. It was the Social Democratic Finance Minister, Peer Steinbrück, who invented this debt rule, which concerns revenue and expenditure. Of course, the deficit or the question of indebtedness is always about the balance of these two positions – Mr Stadler mentioned them earlier – it is about structural deficits, it is about economic deficits, and it is about one that has always been discussed and sometimes criticised, namely that the countries do not have the same budgetary rules as the federal government. The federal budgetary law – which has often been said in the discussion of recent weeks – is one that is also considered to be the best practice example internationally. Staff of the Ministry of Finance are on their way from time to time to other countries and are invited to explain this because it has, so to speak, a model function. What we are doing now with the debt rules is supplementing this excellent budgetary law while at the same time stating that the countries also have to adopt a corresponding budgetary law according to the same criteria as the federal government. I would like to say something about this because you described this federal dilemma in the past. We had a big round a few weeks ago – Federal Chancellor, Vice Chancellor, some representatives of the Federal Government plus the countries – and we agreed on some very big things. These are major administrative reform projects: Federal Office for Asylum and Migration, Administrative Jurisdiction and so on. They will be coming to the Council of Ministers in this year and, hopefully, will be decided here next year. It has already been criticised by my colleague Grastaur here and also in the Committee that the budget accompanying law, which would actually have been the subject of the current discussion and was also the case, is so thin this year. Last year, I remember, the criticism was that it was so thick, so extensive. I can explain. The fact that it is thinner this year, less articles have been articles than last year, has simply and simply to do with the fact that many of the provisions that we agreed last year, of course, continue to apply this year and also in the following years, and therefore did not have to be re-regulated. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] We will continue to work intensively over the next few months on other points, which can thus be generally referred to as administrative reform. This has become a keyword, where many large amounts are always thrown around without saying in detail what is to be understood. In what we did in the last budget accompanying law, 2011, there were many points that were small and unspectacular, but have lasting effect. And we'll continue this path. One charge was still: Planless. – If you look at how we stand in the international comparison, in an extremely difficult situation, in a situation that has not yet existed since the Second World War in this drama and dimension, I just say: The comparison makes sure. And this is, as it were, the best explanation that there was no planlessness. I can only say that I hope that this country, which sometimes takes place, will not become a self-fulfilling prophecy, and I hope that we will be in common- to put in place the right trust-building, trust-building measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10511	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10532	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In addition to the budget, a number of laws such as the amendment of the corporate tax law or the turnover tax equal treatment of the AWS are to be treated and amended in a budgetary manner. But to the current discussion: The news and also the political discussion are dominated by reports about sovereign debt crises, credit rating agencies, markets, triple A, double A. I'm just wondering: Where in this debate do people actually stay? But it is not about who caused this crisis. Was it Lehman Brothers, or is people being speeded up again that they were supposed to have lived over their circumstances, as many of you do? The crisis has aggravated and increased the inequality between the distribution of income and wealth. But Austria has come through the crisis better than other European countries, with targeted measures, with economic packages. In addition, we have low unemployment and relatively good economic growth. In addition to the consolidation of the budget, it is also, and above all, about distribution justice. A number of measures have already been taken in the last budget, such as the bank levy, the capital increase tax, the restriction of Stiftung privileges, or the change in corporate taxation. But that's too far away from us and me. As decided in the House, we must insist on the introduction of a financial transaction tax. We must enforce the deductibility and limitation of bonuses, further reform group taxation and think of another type of asset tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Policy must create the necessary conditions for the future. If we follow the international debate on the financial markets, Mr Amon, we should also consider regulating, stabilising the financial markets, at European level, at international level, and also doing something against the fact that credit rating agencies can still make and do misevaluations, which they then re-evaluate within two hours. The policy has to be designed, ladies and gentlemen, not the markets! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10587	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Lugar. 5 minutes speaking time. – Bitt e.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10614	Mr President. High house! Let's take a closer look at the debt brake. The opposition has repeatedly called for the debt brake not too long ago, just as it was discussed and then introduced in Germany. We made a request in this direction about a year and a half ago, which was, of course, rejected. The FPÖ has also made a number of applications here. That is, we have repeatedly warned you that we need a debt brake in this country. And now the question is: Why did you wait so long? Why Come You with this debt brake now? In principle, the debt brake is a good thing, but if you look more closely, you can see that it's about the rating agencies again. The credit rating agencies have put the rod in the window and told you if you do not take appropriate measures, the Triple A will be in danger. Now we know that an economy like ours with debt of about 74 percent is heavily dependent on GDP to pay low interest rates. We are currently paying about 3.5 percent interest, and with this interest rate burden it is still half-tolerable to pay the 9 to 10 billion per year of interest. It's still feasible. But if interest rates now rise, it will be difficult for every state, not only for Austria. Even Germany, including Finland, all countries have problems if interest rates rise. Here we count 5 to 7 percent as a magical limit, from which it becomes critical. That's why you've been thinking: This is a good idea; the credit rating agencies need to be calmed down. Now we're making a debt brake, and hopefully the interest rates will stay below, and they're going to rise right now. They rise from 2.8 to 3.5 percent. So obviously you're not so successful with this. And why? – Because this debt brake is really a joke, a huge joke, but unfortunately I cannot laugh at, because you undertake to make total debt of 60 percent of GDP. But do you apologise, have we not already committed ourselves to the convergence criteria? Didn't we? Are we not already obliged to raise a maximum of 60 percent of total debt? Come now They therefore say: No, we are obliged to do that by 2020, we will do that by 2020! We should have done this already, because we are constantly committed to comply with the convergence criteria for a stable euro, only in recent years nobody is interested in it. There's been times when there's still blue letters when finance ministers like you didn't stick to it. That's where the EU wrote a letter: Dear friends, that's not how it is! But in the meantime, it is totally uninteresting to keep up with this 60 percent which is supposed to stabilise the euro. And now you come and say, Debt brake, 2020, 60 percent. This is a pure joke, and I would also laugh at it if people did not eventually pay for it. A colleague from the SPÖ asked: Where are the people? Yes, where do they stay if they finally have to pay for your shortcomings? If we look again at this triple A which you want to defend by putting a debt brake and other things in view here, we see that the problem is not the total debt – which is also high at 74 percent, I admit – but we have a special problem that other countries like Germany do not have: We have the problem that our banks have built up an East business of 200 billion. This East business was of course a great profit in good times. Now we are no longer in good times, now the problems come to us. If you look at the balance sheets of the Austrian banks, you can see that between 10 and 40 percent of the eastern loans are lazy loans. That means that there will be twenty billions of costs on us. And what will you do? – Continue to debt as before. We tighten up our scope and finally stand when it is so powerful – and it will crack, it will be officially; it will crack, and it will not last for so long; it will crack, it will cost us, we will produce a higher deficit – with lowered pants there. And then I look at how you can still save the banks and the savings deposits of the Austrians if you no longer have a budget room at all because you seem unable or unwilling to do the homework. It wouldn't be hard to do the homework. You only need to listen to Mr Felder or to Mr Moser from the Court of Auditors. Everyone tells you what to do in the area of pensions, health and so on. But you're just not ready for it, because you're stuck in your coalitionary scratch, where you're besieging each other and hoping that the other will fall over your feet as far as you can. And that's why: If you take this and the question “Where do people stay?” seriously, then do your homework! See that we don't stand there with lowered pants, and change your budget accordingly so that we start saving now and don't wait until 2020 to do the homework.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10666	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10687	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Without a doubt, we are in the midst of a penetrating budgetary policy revolution. Ladies and gentlemen, in such a serious situation, this House must not provide a stage for dumping common table slogans. It is also absolutely unacceptable in this situation to want to score with cheap keywords, mutual debt allocations or even with class-warring slogans. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: ÖVP... Parolen!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The growing pressure of immense public debt also forces all of us to push forward debt reduction seriously and with great responsibility. The debt brake in the Constitution is an essential and more than necessary step for this. 60 percent of the debt ceiling from 2020 onwards and a balanced budget as quickly as possible will be incorporated into the Constitution beyond the economic cycle. It is clear that countries too must participate in this paradigm change. With the debt brake, Austria's government sends an important signal. It is an important signal for the financial markets, the credit rating agencies, but primarily for the population to show that it is serious to us. It's about reducing debts. There are no alternatives to this. To that end, we need to take tangible steps on the expenditure side. Savings, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to adapt the actual retirement age, for example, which discussed a lot of administrative reform, a possible health reform or, for example, efficiency improvements in the area of the Austrian Federal Railways, which actually started in Styria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Countries are also invited to present balanced budgets by 2017. I see ambitious measures on this, as I have already said, in the Styria. Exciting: While the Freedom Party decides the end of the proportion in the Styria – that's true – it closes once again in administrative reforms. Of course there is resistance. The uncertainty in the population is great, but it is precisely here that politics is required, especially here we are called for as politicians. We must take fears and not startle fears. We must work serially and ambitiously on our country and for the future of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill is not so complicated: the less debt, the less interest; the less interest, the more room for future investment; the more future investment, the more prosperity for all. – The bill can be so simple if we all work together on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the debt brake, we are starting the turnaround. It is an important impulse to get away from the debts. That's the only way to meet our responsibilities. Generation scan is another essential building block for an Austria with a future and social peace. And I think this concern should be one for all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10730	Mrs Fekter spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10751	Mr President. High house! Stable finances for a secure future – this is the motto of budgetary consultations, and that is why today is a budget accompanying law on the agenda, in which we have included only those measures that have direct budgetary relevance. Tax-related parts shall either implement Union law or close tax loopholes. But the budget accompanying law alone will not be entirely sufficient for stable finances. We will continue to consult the overall budget until Friday. And in this context, we have decided on a consolidation path, but it is not ambitious enough. We need to keep working on it gradually. [[Call the FPÖ:Hurra!]] That is to say, we have today sent to the House a government template on further consolidation measures together with the countries, with the communities in order to achieve a debt brake in the Constitution. We will write in the Constitution those criteria to which we have already committed ourselves, and we will continue a common consolidated path – a little more ambitious than before, also to signal the overall stability to which we confess ourselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only through stable finances can we look securely into the future. We will take this debt brake very carefully with the new upper limits of expenditure, which we will have to report to Brussels in spring, in the future. And, ladies and gentlemen, the spending limits to which we have so far known have always been observed, although the economic situation in the second and third quarters has become somewhat weaker. We are trying to act wisely in economic terms too, and with regard to economic growth, to put the State's action in such a way that we do not allow the crop to dry up. But we also confess that everyone has to help – both the countries and the communities. Our budget right, this multi-annual planning path with the spending limits, is now considered the best-practice model throughout Europe. [[Call the BZÖ:Super!]] It is now also regarded as a model for all European countries to achieve fiscal consolidations. That is why we will also try to ensure that our countries, communities and cities are guided by this budgetary law and implement it as the federal government has already done, because this leads to debt brakes.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10804	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. [[Abg. Bitch: Oh, you! That's always the one who's weathered against the debt brake!]] 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10836	Mr President. My women Federal ministers! Federal Minister! The Secretary of State! High house! First of all, I would like to say that this government shows with the speed with which decisions were taken yesterday, that it can, if necessary, very, very clear and very quickly put in place the necessary measures that are useful to our country and that it does so. [[Abg. Bucher: A week ago you were against it!]] Thank you – in this case, Deputy – Mr. State Secretary and Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But let's just stick to this issue. Why is this necessary so quickly? – The truth is that we have one of the best models in this country with our budgetary law – the Federal Minister has pointed out – in order to be able to budget carefully and forward-lookingly. We are almost 3 percent among the best countries in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] We have a good budgetary policy in this country. Nevertheless, the so-called financial markets and rating agencies have doubts as to whether Austria is good enough. We are too small as a country and the rules are not there to put them in the barriers, so that we have no other way of putting such things into practice, so to speak, brutally and quickly. In future, ladies and gentlemen, we should pay attention to this kind of diktat, that democracies are controlled by financial markets and rating agencies, as we have seen in Greece, as we see in part throughout the Union. [[Abg. Scheibner: But we haven't done anything for years!]] There is decisive resistance. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, are representatives who have been elected by a single sovereign, and that is the people, not the financial markets. They are obliged to oppose the fact that third parties decide on the fate of the people, the country and society. We have this task ahead of us, and I believe that we will have to take decisive steps. I am pleased about today's initiative in the European Parliament. But we are also taking the right steps here – and I am now coming to the amendment that we have tabled. I would like to stress that we are taking a right step with the new Foreign Economic Act 2011 and the amendments we are now making here. It cannot be said that infrastructure companies, companies that are concerned with the immediate provision of services for people in Austria, from fire brigade to hospital, from energy supply to telecommunications, that these companies, together with their supply orders, can become a playball of speculation. That is why we are making a law that, where a voting majority is acquired, the Minister for Economic Affairs can only give an approval. This is the right way to prevent a decisive intervention from taking place from outside. I would also like to thank the coalition partner at this point. We have led a very, very good law in very cooperative ways. It is also a measure to ensure that we in this country determine democracy on the living conditions, not third parties, not financial markets at all and not speculators at all. In this sense, I am looking forward to the common struggle to regulate these financial markets, to put rating agencies in the barriers, and to perhaps in the next few years also to getting back to what we have stood for. We are a democracy and not a Republic controlled by speculators. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury]] And that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10907	Mr Kirchgatterer has just spoken as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10928	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In economically difficult, economically troubled times, broad cooperation is a big plus. Especially in Austria, we can be particularly proud of our social partners, especially in difficult times, in times of crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] I remember 2008, the time when order books were only more than 60 percent full when job opportunities were very limited. The short work was a truly promising solution for purchasing power in Austria, for economic development. And what is most expensive is now unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, especially in economically difficult times, in budgetary difficult times, the question is to ask: Who can contribute more to the public? If the international comparison shows us that the top percentage in Austria on average is significantly less than abroad, it is very legitimate to invite more to participate here. As it is so beautiful: strong shoulders wear more. I would also like to point out the importance of the well-functioning state in Austria. A well-functioning judicial system, a well-functioning administration, a developed social state, remains the most important thing for the Austrians to expect from the Community. [[Abg. Petsner: Jessas! Where do you live? Are you living in Austria?]] The priorities set out in the budget, i.e. education and employment, are also forward-looking. [[Abg. Petzner: You also come from the combat speaker group!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think we can go to a high level of discussion that lies ahead of us. And I think we will also be economically successful if the opposition also brings up the budgetary discipline it expects from all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10987	Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11011	Mr President. It was now a direct call from the speaker of the SPÖ that we should stick to the budget discipline. That is what we are doing, and we are making a proposal. In the context of her statement, the Minister of Finance has said that all of this will not be enough to bring a budget into line. That's not enough, you said. [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:Request!]] I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11035	Mr Bucher, you know the Rules of Procedure very well. I should like to ask you to make a request, to justify it briefly, otherwise I must withdraw the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11053	That was probably the introduction and the reason: They all complain, including the ÖVP, that there are so many debts here, based on these accompanying laws and this budget. Therefore, we make the referral request in accordance with § 73 para. 3rd. Let us return this to the Committee on Budgets to continue the discussions there so that we can really reduce the debt and give the Austrians a careful budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11085	The next item is Mr Deputies' head. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11107	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the course of this debate, a number of things have now been done, especially in the direction of ÖVP, on attempts to forgery history, and this has to be put into the right light. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was ÖVP Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, in whose Chancellorship between 2000 and 2007 the government debt ratio was reduced from 67 percent to 59 percent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Wrong!]] It was the ÖVP Finance Ministers Molterer and Josef Pröll, who have managed the financial crisis so successfully, ladies and gentlemen, that this crisis in the real economy in Austria has not only not arrived but also had no effect on the labour market. [[Call FPÖ and BZÖ:Grassers!]] [[Abg. Booker: Do not falsify history!]] [[Abg. Petzner: That's where you have to laugh!]] This country and its population have been spared from the effects of this crisis thanks to the successful activity of Molterer and then Pröll. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Straw: Grasser will forget again!]] I wonder, in a way, if the BZÖ is so permanently evocative here. They were not entirely insignificant in the years 2000 to 2007. [[Abg. Grosz: The BZÖ was founded in 2005 only!]] So why don't you share with us this success of the government's bowl, which is to reduce the debt from 67 percent to 59 percent? [[Abg. Grosz: We have nothing to do with the ÖVP!]] Why not? [[Abg. Grosz: You forgot the grass!]] I think you're so drilled in your opposition activity and your hooligan-like appearances, which you're constantly showing here that you can't even distinguish between reality and imagination at all. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] Your colleague, Bucher, I'm surprised at you quite a bit: I haven't counted you in this sector so far, but if I hear expressions in the direction of ÖVP like, for example, indifference or you are slumbering from the government, then I have to revise my opinion not to count you to this circle. [[Abg. Bookbooker: That's how it was!]] You belong to this sector as well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the facts. The crisis management and the fact that we succeeded in relinquishing the real economy in Austria from the financial crisis have cost money, no question. We have purchased deficits, last in 2010 of 4.9 percent, in order not to let people get to the crisis, and if there were no government bowl, then we would not be at 75 percent government debt, but at 80 percent or 85 percent. [[Abg. We're already 89 percent! That's not where the outsourced debts are.]] That is to say, we should be grateful to this government of the time for this course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was Minister of Finance Josef Pröll and continued Minister of Finance Fekter, who then brought Austria back to a budget remediation path, which would land at 2% in 2016. This is an ambitious way, which is an acceptable and good way, but we have to recognise today, Mr Matznetter has already pointed out that, despite this good path, it will need more in the next few years. And now you want a finance minister who has already put us on a good path and now with the proposal to anchor a debt brake in the Constitution, another insists – that is, we strengthen our efforts – to express distrust? Yes, you still need to save? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: And what about the outsourcing of debt?]] On the contrary! I do not know what has happened to you in the last few days, but this minister deserves our full trust and our full support in this way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You are now mounting that to this new path, which will bring us already 2016 a minimum re-indebtedness of only 0.35 percent, which you have demanded a few days ago, will not be included in the measures as well. Each way begins with the formulation of principles and a goal, and then, of course, in the coming weeks and months, the measures will be delivered to this House. [[Abg. Bucher: We've heard that for ten years!]] It is reasonable to do so when we have to do what we have to do, namely correct the budget, so that we do not have to do one thing, namely to tax people in this country with new taxes. [[Abg. Bookbooker: That’s what I’m looking at!]] The alternative to saving is tax increases, and we do not want them, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can only appeal to all those who have used some rather fine expressions here, which are totally inappropriate in view of the proposals made by this government to the House in order to bring us to a good recovery path, and which has now added to the proposal to ensure that even constitutionally, we turn to the facts. [[Call the BZÖ:Hooligan!]] They swadder around new taxes and new debts. [[Abg. Petzner: Speaking of “swandroning”, that’s not the fine way either!]] On the basis of the facts, you will realize that this federal government has brought this country to a successful course and will now bring it to an even more successful course.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11410	Mr Klubobmann Kopf, for the expression and phrase “hooligan-like approach of the BZÖ” I give you a call for order – this also in the sense of the remarks in the last presidential session. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Abg. Head: I'd like to take the proof of truth!]] Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. I refer to the Rules of Procedure and give the floor to you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11462	Mr President. My predecessor, Klubobmann Kopf, said that the debt was reduced from 67 percent in 2000 under the Chancellorship of Schüssel to less than 60 percent. I am actually correct and may refer to the budget report of the Minister for Finance, page 78: The budget deficit was reduced from 66.2 to 62.3 percent. It was lowered to less than 60 percent under the Chancellorship of Gusenbauer. By the way, I agree with the assessment of the work of this Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11498	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stadler. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11520	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Greeting from Brussels!]] Please? - I think so. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Greeting from Brussels!]] You can hardly expect it anymore, gell, but in the meantime you will have to listen a little bit more! So: Today, the “arbitrary elegantiarum” stood here in person. He distributed censorships: These are Hooligans, these are those who did not understand, those who do not need to take seriously at all, they have no idea anyway, but the nobless naturally culminates at the ÖVP. – Of course, yes, of course! Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, or I should like to say that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, because everyone under 100 years of age is at risk of resignation, as was shown by the example of Mr Grillitsch. Don't laugh, my colleague. If an elder finds himself who can follow you, you are also due! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let's examine why the Austrian People's Party, the so youthful Austrian People's Party – when I heard about the latest staff development in the ÖVP, I thought that one should ask a few blacks next to the dinosaur bones in the Natural History Museum and then ask the price question who looks younger. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] Let's take a look at this: Since when has the ach so great Austrian People's Party been in the government? Since when? Haven't you checked that yourself? – For a quarter of a century, blacks have been in the government, and for a quarter of a century, they have been pretending to have nothing to do with the budget. No indebtedness has ever been to blame the blacks. Not! They have always fought against every single new billion that has been written into the budget. [[Abg. Höfinger: Learn history!]] - Please? – Yeah, I'm just about to learn story! [[Abg. Höfinger: Learn history!]] I'm trying to work it up. Why don't you help me, as a specialist in the ÖVP-seniority group? Yes, you've been in government for a quarter of a century and have nothing to do with debt. Why? – As you know, according to ÖVP performance, debt always means Bruno Kreisky, debt is always red, debt is always Kreisky, because Black has always done everything to ensure that we do not have record debt. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Is that wrong?]] The fact that Mrs Fekter is now no longer part of the ÖVP is another chapter. This has happened to me, because if you listen to colleagues' heads, you get the feeling that the current budget has nothing to do with the EIA. 10 billion € additional debt, that has nothing to do with the ÖVP, that has been Mrs. Fekter. And Mrs. Fekter is doing this only because she's being forced to do so by the SPÖ. Poor Mrs Fekter, ladies and gentlemen! So much on the subject of arrears. What do you think, Mr Kopf, what the voters think about it? The voters sees 10 billion € of new debt, and at the same time the ÖVP enters the public and says: We've always been for the debt brake, we've never been on debt, we've never made debts in the budget. – What does the voters call this, Mr. Kopf? – I suspect that “behind” is even more the flattering variant for it. [[Abg. Head: Hooligan!]] - No, not Hooligan! Oh, now the voters are also a hooligan. Oh, oh, mye, mye. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are one of the Hooligans who demand an honest policy, then make a huge bow around the Austrian People's Party. This is my advice, ladies and gentlemen, High House! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] When is the real, always faithful, always committed ÖVP – I could say now when Mrs. Fekter last said that she is against a debt brake, but I know she's no longer one of you – the last time she said that she's actually against splitting the euro into a core euro and into a southern euro? In the meantime, this is being prepared within the ÖVP and not only the ÖVP, but also all its sister parties in the EPP are already thinking about it, including their sister party CSU in Germany, which is closely intertwined with the ÖVP. Of course, it seems that the CSU did not understand this properly and is already part of the Hooligans. Is that so, ladies and gentlemen? Then we'll do this to them. Let's go on: the billions to Greece. I remember, as they honestly said, this is a huge business. True, Mrs. Fekter did not say so, she was just referring to her predecessor. However, he has expressly said so, Mr Josef Pröll. He said that's gonna be a business inside, yeah! Do you know, Mr Kopf, that some or some of the people here are not yet suffering from memory wounds that we do not remember well? A big deal! But no, I know. Josef Pröll no longer belongs to the ÖVP, as Mr Straster no longer belongs to the ÖVP, as Grasser no longer belongs to the ÖVP. It was really delicious to observe which Amnesia Klubobmann had head when listing the Finance Ministers of the ÖVP: He called him before and after that, but Grasser, who was in between, he forgot. Why do you think? – Because Mr Grasser has, of course, become a bit unpopular at the moment – is that so? That is why it is no longer part of the ÖVP, because in principle only what is popular belongs to the ÖVP belongs to the ÖVP, in principle, only what the debt has brought down, nothing that has pushed debt up. What is this called in the People's mouth, ladies and gentlemen of the Seniority Group? What do you call such a thing in the folk mouth? – There’s a “back door” on the other hand a noble expression. I would say: the truth is the least committed – and this is a noble description of what I really think, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let us continue in the context of what the ÖVP has represented. The ÖVP has said: The EFSF, that is now the rescue of the entire project and that works!, and now we read in the paper that even the ÖVP has already realized that the funds that the EFSF has thrown on the market must be partially raised by itself, because they had to buy the bonds that were imposed on them themselves. So: The rescue shield saves the rescue shield, ladies and gentlemen! This is the “honestness” of the Austrian People’s Party. The Austrian People's Party, which today has claimed all day long to do something for child protection, really does not touch a finger, as we know from the Minister of Justice. The ÖVP says all the time what it does for the families. In reality, however, Mr Mitterlehner is the family “Powidl” because he is not an economic partner for it but of course! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Family Mitterlehner has nothing that really protects and benefits the families. On the contrary. It is aimed at what is desired in the Economic Union, and there the families do not play a role, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's all your honesty! You know, if you get out of here, Mr. Kopf, and pretend to be the incarnate honour, the incarnate morale, then you have to keep up with how immoral one has been running politics for years and day in the ÖVP. And there's nothing you owe each other. You don't need to point the red with your long finger when it comes to debt. You of the ÖVP are primarily the debt party of this country, since you have long replaced the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11676	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall be voting on the request made by Members of Parliament to refer the matter back to the Committee on Budgets. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We come to the vote on the draft Budgetary Accompanying Act 2012 in 1500 of the Supplements. The Krainer Members, Mag. Aubauer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional or amendment to Articles 2, 19 and 21. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall leave the draft law with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Mag. Aubauer, ladies and gentlemen. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign of acknowledgment. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance in accordance with Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I shall first expressly adopt it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Finance Act 2011, together with the title and receipt in 1495 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at the third reading, for a sign on this point. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:54:44]] 3rd. Point Report by the Equal Treatment Committee on the Federal Government report on the reduction of women's disadvantages; Reporting period 2009–2010 (III-251/1491 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 1621/A(E) by Mr Carmen Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the opening of negotiations with the social partners on the improvement of the income situation of women (1492, e.g.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment 1604/A(E) by Mrs Anneliese Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, on the improvement of the taxing of child care costs (1493 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11825	We now come to points 3 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Unspoiled. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11852	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I have just noticed that many of my colleagues have just left the room. I hope they are hungry and it is not the disinterest of the report on the reduction of the disadvantages of women we are now dealing with. The focus of this year's report is on the labour market, i.e. on equality between women and men in working life. However, instead of accepting this problem with practical measures, the report remains in a gender-theoretical discourse. I remember, Mr Cap, that you have always been particularly interested in what I have said. So I like to repeat it again. Even the constant use of anglicism, especially of Gender Pay Gap, when one speaks quite simply of differences in income between men and women, clearly shows that one has remained stuck in this eternally-stricken socio-scientific feminist discourse and thus has actually remained stuck in the 1980s. The English word “gender, ” that is, the invention of the so - called social sex rather than biological sex, instead of men and women, means only more beings that have been raised to men and women. As I have already pointed out, one has been arrested in such theories. So it is not surprising that you are no longer able to find real practical solutions to the real problems. We liberals say that the real problem is not the so-called Gender Pay Gap, i.e. the differences in income between men and women, but the differences in income between women with children and women without children, i.e. between mothers and non-mothers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is precisely on this point, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we need to take political action. A national action plan needs to be put in place here so that mothers do not fall into financial permeability. If women choose to take care of their children for the first one, two or three years, this should not lead to their being financially punished for this decision. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is wrong, in our opinion, if not only the competent minister, but the entire government wants to solve the problem by forcing women to place their children in cribs and other facilities shortly after birth. The discrimination due to maternity, but also due to the care of old family members, is eliminated. The so-called Europe 2020 strategy provides for a further increase in the employment of women. For us liberals, not the objectives set by the EU are desirable, which expressly submit to market economy criteria, but we are focusing on the real needs of women, men and children; in particular, children are always neglected in such considerations. We liberals do not want to know Barcelona targets implemented, but to ensure that the family environment in Austria is improved. At this time, at a time of upheaval, to focus on any gender theories, that's wrong. Mrs Minister, women should not be told: If you are not out of work, you will always have problems for a lifetime!, but you have to take measures to ensure that women are not financially punished by the fact that they have children and that they devote themselves to a span of their lifetime. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The social and labour law expert Wolfgang Mazal speaks of indirect discrimination against women when women take a baby break and go to Karenz. For 20 years, experts have been pointing out this failure of the social partners, and one could actually solve it with a dash. This includes removing injustices. I believe that women's policy, gender policy and family policy should be a common link of interest so that appropriate measures can be taken for the benefit of women, men and children.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11940	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11961	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are discussing today the report on the reduction of women's disadvantages. You are right, Mrs Unterlander, in one matter: There is talk of much injustice because the differences in income – and on this the focus has been placed by the Federal Government over the past two years – are unfair. But you will not succeed, Mrs Colleague, in driving a rope between the women who are mothers and the women who are not mothers. You won't succeed! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It is about creating more justice – here I am your opinion – but we are creating justice by taking action to ensure that women have the opportunity – but also the cutting and courage – to take professions other than the three famous, namely salesman, hairdresser and office merchant. It's about women having opportunities to earn well. We are here in areas which I would like to mention briefly: For example, the metallurgists have just adopted a good wage round, and since it has succeeded to count very much ladies and gentlemen that karenz times are charged for preemptive periods, namely 16 months per child, not just for one child, but per child. This is a great step forward! Mrs Gartelgruber, that is why your request has failed in the final effect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] You'll do the same thing. And there has been a great movement in the trade union, in the social partners, in the social partners' corporate wings, by taking particular account of the fact that women in particular also make certain educational or childcare activities. That's what we're going to react to. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: After all!]] We're in the gender index that you've kind of smiled here, Mrs. Unterlander, to get some places forward. These measures have been successful, much of which we have promised. I'm talking about income transparency. I am also referring to the fact that the employment rate is being written out in such a way that you also know what you can earn, whether there is an overpayment. ==References== January is the case that all establishments that do not comply with the transparency rules will have to pay an administrative penalty. A further step has also been taken. It is a central concern that there should be some transparency. We SPÖ women went out with an advertising campaign, with an information campaign in the final effect, where it was about telling women: Request more, trust you to say that you are worth something! [[Demonstrative applause by Mr Markowitz and Mr Petzner.]] That's exactly what this is all about! We have already achieved a number of things, and we will, of course, continue to do so. At this point, the Minister must also congratulate, which has once again brought movement into the whole debate. We don't need any unknowing calls, Mrs. Mag. Inconsistencies, but we need what you have mentioned, namely a consensus, a cohesion. But what we can't need is that women are divided. [[Abg. May. We don't do that!]] We must see that women are represented everywhere: in Parliament, in jobs, in managerial positions, and, and, and. That should be our common concern – and for that I am fighting!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12038	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schenk. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12059	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The traffic light still stands at red on women's incomes, and this is clearly reflected in this report. This report shows once again the situation of Austrian women, and this situation is still bad. The key figures show gross and net income, unemployment and pensions are far from the comparative values of men, ladies and gentlemen. And if the men don't want to hear it, and if they don't want to hear it – and there aren't a lot of men here now; I praise all those who are present and who also stand and listen to this debate – it must still be said, because we also have to create awareness of it here. [[MEPs Petzner and Markowitz raise their hands]] Unfortunately, we have to preach it again and again, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Improvements are listed only in the areas of part-time work and childcare. There is a percentage increase in participation. But in general, the report shows nothing new or nothing else but what the last report has already shown. The low employment rate of migrant women is also an indication that it is not best ordered about integration policy, and with ads, as your State Secretary Kurz, this situation of migrants will not improve either. They only cost a lot of money again, but don't get the migrants. They will not be integrated into the work process. However, the number of measures has been increased from 127 to 213, but this does not say anything about the quality and efficiency of these measures. We voted against this report in committee, because we simply lack too much. For example, there are no measures for women 50-plus set out in the Government Convention. There is no measure. The Minister refers only to women's promotions, to the fact that women's homes are increasingly supported and women's 50-plus is to be addressed to them. Madam Minister, this is not an adequate answer for women 50-plus who are without work, who have no work. [[Interference of Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] – You will be speaking anyway, Mrs. Minister! It is also about the care area, which is a very important area. Unfortunately, there are no effective measures there too. We know the care is female. Of the 420 000 care professionals, 350 000 are cared for at home, and 80 percent of this care work is done by women, ladies and gentlemen. 80 percent! The care is female, the women have a double and triple burden, and these women are not addressed here in any way and are not taken into account. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Instead, the salary calculator, which costs €500 000, does not bring anything that goes wrong. And not even Mrs Minister has succeeded in getting all the data she needs, namely all collective agreements to make comparisons, ladies and gentlemen. And women are advised to contact the social partners if they would like to have information about various collective agreements. It can't go on like this! This report shows how bad it is about Austrian women's policy. However, this report does not give any recommendations, no further instructions on how to proceed. There are many of us, many of them in the committees, ladies and gentlemen, over 1,000 opposition requests, and I would urge you to accept, take them seriously and include the opposition in the relevant committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12138	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12159	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are discussing today a report which has also led to discussions in the Committee on Equal Opportunities. But this is not only about equal treatment between women and men, but also about equal treatment between men and men. And at this point I would not like to mention the comments of Mr Stadler, who spoke on Sunday in the ORF mission “In the Center” of religion and values, but who has produced himself here today and called a colleague as dinosaur, has left him in a mood of contempt. [[Abg. Grosz: Wrong debate, Mrs Colleague!]] I think that's incredible! For this way there is only one term, the Pharisee. And that is exactly what the Lord Stadler has shown here. [[Abg. Grosz: 'Pharisaeanism' is on the list of calls for orders, Mr President.]] [[Abg. Petzner: The term “pharmacy” is just as unacceptable!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This year's report focuses on the disadvantages of women in the labour market. The colleague, Mr Unterlander, said - I have written this - that women are pushed into or forced into employment by the Federal Minister. No one is forced to do so! On the contrary: Our task is to give women freedom of choice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Unspoiled.]] The women in Austria are hot enough, intelligent enough, open enough to be able to decide for themselves what form of life they choose, and our greatest concern and work must therefore be to offer our daughters and the sons and also the granddaughters the best education that already has to start in kindergarten. It is our job to see that they have a good teaching position to see that they are also paid justly for the same work as the men, and to look at it – and that is quite, very important to me personally, I think it is essential – that in the worlds of life, from being a child to being a youth and working up to being an old age, for which women are given safety. This security is what we are fighting for and what I am standing for. Just, ladies and gentlemen: We all wish that the guarantee of this security will also work through a marriage. The fact is, however, that in Austria we have a divorce rate of 54 percent. We are also close to 50 percent in the federal states. So it's quite simply this life insurance marriage no longer available. We need to look at reality. That is, we need self-sufficiency for women, and that is only with our own income, where the woman can count on herself, where she also has pension rights. That is exactly what this report documents very impressively by the authors whom I congratulate on this report! One thing we must also say: The employment rate of women is almost 9 percent below that of men. Interestingly, the male employment rate decreases a little while the female rate increases. While in 2009 77 percent of men and 65.4% of women were employed, today we stand at 81 percent for women who are employed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to employment, women have also contributed more human capital, whether in secondary school, whether in schools in general or in students. The report therefore clearly proposes a gender-sensitive strategy within the framework of the outstanding education strategy. In a study – and I am allowed to quote it here for example – the following has been shown in pairs of identical graduates, i.e. those with labour market-related characteristics: After a levelling career entry, it was clear after three years that both in terms of salary, position and responsibilities in the same field, women have fallen in a massive way, regardless of whether or not they have taken up the leave. I am speaking here of the so-called ‘glass ceiling’, which is also very detailed in this report. The ‘glass ceiling’, ladies and gentlemen, is an invisible barrier that hinders and prevents an equivalent professional approach. As a result of this report, it is also quite clear that women have fewer incomes, although they are as productive as men, and therefore they are much more vulnerable in the working age, as I have already said, and especially in the retirement age than men. To prevent this is the task of women politicians. As can be seen from the statistical figures, ladies and gentlemen, gross and net income, and hence unemployment benefits, and consequently also the pensions of women, are clearly below the reference values of men. These are facts, that is not invented, these are facts that are quite simple! Of the 2.2 million pensioners, 121 000 have joined the pensioners alone in 2010 and another third are more women. And although 63 percent of women already had their own pension claim in 2003 and 50 percent had their own retirement pension, the pension income for women is often 60 percent below that of men today, in 2011 – the calculations from 2010 – often. The report also shows quite clearly that. That can and must not be, against it is happening! Ladies and gentlemen! In general, the report documents the clear efforts of the Federal Government to achieve improvements for women, for women in all ages, in all situations of life. There is also a great deal of effort being made on the part of the Federal Minister, who goes through all the departments. I am very, very glad that we decided on the National Action Plan in this way at the time, which is now being implemented step by step. I wish you every success! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12260	The next item is Mrs Gartelgruber's speech: 3 minutes' speaking time. [[Abg. Grosz: Ordinary call for 'Pharisäertum, Mr President.]] Mr President, at the end of the day it is the President's decision when and what a call for order. I would ask you to take note of this. [[Abg. Grosz: But it's on the list!]] Some terms – and that will be You have also been accommodated – are simply obsolete, and I do not give a call for order. [[Abg. Grosz: But this is a strange interpretation!]] Please, Mrs Gartelgruber, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12318	Mr President. Minister! We are discussing today the report on the reduction of women's disadvantages. I would like to take a brief look at the content because you, Mrs Minister – you have talked about it in the Committee – have very thematic and methodological access to it, but I do not think that chain images, key figures and traffic lights are really useful as indicators for the reality of life of women in Austria. It is also known that such socio-scientific studies are very much aimed at the issue and thus strongly influence the outcome. So, does the report really reflect the reality of the life of women in Austria, or is it trying to support their own policy in an appropriate report? – If you look at this, you can see that the 2007 care report is also quoted, and there is the question: Is there no new evidence to this end? So you have to ask the whole report a little bit. Also, keep us more or less guilty of solutions. My colleague will then go into the salary calculator, and I will leave it out there now. Mrs Wurm, you have spoken to my colleague, Mr Inlander, who has spoken of pay differences between women who have children and women who do not have children. There are probably studies on this. The well-known labour law expert Wolfgang Mazal also did so in his report, which we took from the “Presse” on 9 May. May addresses the issue, and he is talking about indirect discrimination against women, about women with children being paid worse than women without children. There is no such big difference between the salaries of men and those of women who do not have children, where the difference is about 11 percent, while the difference to the women who have children is 29 percent. That's a very big difference, and we have to put it there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you now say that my request is obsolete, I have to resist it: I made this request last year, and last year he was rejected and thus did not achieve that the periods of leave in the collective contracts are taken into account. You have refused last year, but this is what is being discussed. I am pleased about this because it confirms that I was right that this was necessary. However, what I wanted to achieve with the request is that a National Council decision also allows entrepreneurs to relieve them and to provide an incentive to the economy in a cost-neutral way. The appropriate incentive for the economy to employ women with children also takes another step to prevent the disadvantages raised. So we still have a lot to do with women's politics in Austria. Madam Minister, I ask you to become active here and continue to support me in this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12363	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner: 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12384	Mr President. Dear viewers! High house! Mrs. Unterlander, because you are talking about Gender Pay Gap and you are making fun of the word ‘Gender’, and I would like to point out an article in the issue of ‘News’ about two weeks ago, where men of your party who are unfortunately not present have presented their women’s image. [[Deputies Zanger and Ing. Höbart – that hand raising –:Here!]] Oh, hello! – What they have outlined there is a Neandertal and Stone Age female image. That's where I'd recommend: Once within your party, talk about what you could or would have to do! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: That won't help!]] This is more than annoying: There, concepts from the animal world are strained, and there's the talk of nest builder instinct, up to the lion male that spreads seed. This is so embarrassing and inconceivable, especially as far as the lions are concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: (showing on the FPÖ's seat rows) Lion males!]] Yeah, there's the lion males sitting there. – So look at this, and then talk about eternality! Okay? Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to your request, Mrs Gartelgruber: You obviously do not know your own request, because there is not only the accountability of periods of leave inside, but you also write in it about the accountability of child care times. This is quite a difference, because that is, if you follow your request, that if a woman stays with her children for ten years, he should be charged with the care period? That's how it stands in your application! And that's where I'm asking you: After ten years, what employer takes a woman who has been away from the labour market for ten years, at the same price as a woman who has worked for ten years? I think the answer is obvious, and in that respect, your request is almost naïve, you can only say. When it comes to karenz times, we're definitely there. However, it must be said that there are far different grounds for discrimination in the collective agreements. This is about accountability, increases, supplements and many other things, not only about childcare. By the way, the children should also be cared for by the fathers; if so, one should also put it down. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Now to the report that we are actually discussing. First: It is positive that we are discussing this report in plenary, even if it is shaky. Secondly, it is interesting that there are more and more measures, sometimes very good measures. [[Abg. Grosz: There are only four Members sitting with the Greens!]] However, it is annoying that these are already more than 200 measures that are being put in place, especially in order to eliminate the disadvantages of women in the labour market. That's a pretty big wealth. But what I miss, these are objectives. It is still not clear how these measures are coordinated, as they are in line with other sectors. And I do not think it has been answered in the committee how this will happen in the future. It is always so, we see this also in other areas, that there are important measures on the one hand, but on the other hand things are being adjusted. Let me give you an example: You, Mrs. Minister, and your colleague Hundstorfer have made a big campaign for girls and boys, the ad campaign “Find your own way!” That means, decide exactly when you vote for the job, looking for not so typical professions. It has already been said that the classical teaching professions – and the men go in one direction, the women into the other. So they're making a big campaign that certainly doesn't cost much, and on the other hand, the Ministry of Education is setting up exactly the projects that go in this direction, such as "girls and technology", "Women in Technology", "FIT" and "mute!", exactly the projects that would be about exactly these things. It is then always argued that this is now contained in teaching and training plans, only if you look closer, you will not get this impression or it will not be confirmed. So this is bothering me and is a good example of how many measures are going against each other, so to speak. How little harmony there is also shows the example of Styria from which I come. They usually say that you are not responsible for this because the country matter is, but it is somewhat schizophrenic that on the one hand many measures are put in place, but on the other hand there are so great savings taking place, especially in an area where women are employed, by which women are relieved, for example in childcare. For example, the Kindergarten-Gratis-Year was withdrawn. However, the entire care sector, the care sector for the disabled and also the social sector have also been greatly reduced. And not least, this concerns women. It is somewhat schizophrenic when we put on the one hand measures and on the other hand then put in place party colleagues and country leaders from the same party measures that go exactly the opposite direction. This is not understandable to me, and I think it is totally schizophrenic. The Gender Gap Report – even if you do not like this word, Mrs Colleague, “more than anything else” means that you look at exactly to what extent there are some disadvantages and effects on the two sexes; that is, “more welcome”, that is, we can also repeat it very often until it finally arrives – the Global Gender Gap Report from this year confirms that there are huge deficits in the labour market and in the field of education. I already see an agreement and also interactions that the report we are discussing today also confirms, and I think that far too little is being done to ensure that, unfortunately, gender sensitivity is not an issue, especially in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12485	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12506	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am not going to deal with the common picture of women, because we still have the freedom of choice to determine our own image of women. I am not going to deal with the presence so that how many men are here or are not here, but rather with two specific applications made by the FPÖ. An application is concerned with improving the income situation for women. In my opinion, this is a concrete request, which goes beyond that there is only a salary calculator or a non-binding salary statement for job tenders. Mr Gartelgruber's request that, after the Karenz, women get better account of these times when they get back to school, is right and good, because these times have so far been lost for women and have not been counted in any way. It's an economic deficit that women have. It can be seen again that family work is still unpaid work, even though in our time of government between 2000 and 2006, we made sure that child rearing times are counted accordingly, for the first time. Since then, nothing has changed, but that was a good and right decision, just: The time of the karenz is actually something that needs to be taken into account due to the valuable activity. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Budgetary activity, management activity is something that should be worth something. And I think that even in view of the fact that more men are going to Karenz, that would be very important. If this time were to be evaluated and if these times, as I said, not economically lost times, then more men would automatically choose to do so. The second request by the FPÖ regarding the improvement of fiscal consideration of child care costs is to be welcomed in principle. However, I believe that as it is put, we are actually continuing in a very indifferent and very complicated tax system. In our view, raising the limit on child care costs is simply not enough, because this tax system needs to be transparent and fair, and it is currently really absurd. As absurd as it is, the decision of the independent financial senate also shows that grandparents do not have quality training, for example, if they have completed only six hours for child care. This is really absurd for me and brings much more unrest to the whole system. Therefore, we have always strongly criticized the current rules on the depreciation of child care costs for up to ten years and exclusively for those who do not belong to the household – grandparents are so to speak excluded. It doesn't work either. I believe that €150 million has been made available for this depreciation, and a maximum of one fifth is picked up by the parents. That's where you have to ask yourself. Something's not working on this system. Therefore, our proposal to promote, on the one hand, unbureaucratic and transparent families, that the money should really come from the families and, on the other hand, to quickly reform the tax system. We from the BZÖ have clear ideas about this with the so-called flat tax. Our model of the fair tax system includes a general discount rate for children per year of €9 000. This is not bound by age limits, it is not dependent on those who care for children, because children generate costs, which is quite clear, and these costs should also be taken into account in the system. Performance must be rewarded again. This is especially true of the families, because the families have paid enough in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12568	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12589	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two comments to you, Mrs Gartelgruber: I think that when a scientific report is drawn up, it is related to questions. I do not think it is possible to make a report. Secondly, If you continue your logic, i.e. women with and without children, that would mean women, you make it up for each other, 48 percent of society we release from responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] – This is not my access to force the reduction of the disadvantage of women. Ladies and gentlemen! The report provides a very precise and graphically very appealing scientific overview of those measures that are important and necessary and have been put to reduce existing social, family and economic disadvantages of women. The method is a traffic light marking which allows a rapid allocation; so it is very useful. Dissolved areas of problem are presented greenly, such as the building up of women's human capital and the opening up of work. Guidance was given to the EU’s Lisbon objective. With a more than 70 percent employment rate, Austria has thus achieved this objective. The measures taken by the Federal Government have thus led to a measurable success. Yellow marked areas are further observable action fields. This means that there is something else to do, for example in the question of compatibility or in connection with the pushing of the so-called glass ceiling. Not always, as the authors insist, a question of education or training, but it takes many wheels to turn on to achieve changes so that better trained women, well-trained women also receive a higher salary. Red marked are those few areas where only minor changes became visible and noticeable, for example when the gender role is broken. It turns out that girls again take more traditional occupations in their choice of careers, tend to tend to be traditional occupations – despite low chances of rise, despite lower incomes and often low social acceptance. The obstacles that girls do this again are gender-typical role credits, job search and work environments. These obstacles must be reduced. A total of 213 measures were taken by the Federal Government to promote the reduction of the disadvantage of women. The focus was mainly on labour market policy activity and activity. Ladies and gentlemen! Coming to the end: Many wheels are in motion, many still have to be driven. Mrs Minister, we're going to be Support you actively in the implementation of your goals within the meaning of women.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12646	Next speaker: Mrs Kitzmüller. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12668	Mr President. Minister! I come to the motion for a resolution that I have tabled on improving the taxing of child care costs and extending the care periods from ten years to at least until the end of compulsory schooling. I do not think that we should start by saying something about the statements made by Mrs Schittenhelm. To raise children and manage a household, I would like to say now, is a job that women certainly cannot do less well and that is not worth less than if the work is done by a cleaning woman, a nanny, a mother or someone who is at home for the men and cooks or for the families for which women are at home and cooks. [[Abg. Silhavy: For the men, that's right!]] As long as you do not recognize the housework and the education of children, the performance of mothers as they deserve, there will never be a change of mind. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schwentner.]] If we don't hold up the performance the mothers perform – now I say again, mothers – then how should a father or a man declare themselves willing to stay home and raise the children when it's said it's a inferior job? There must be a rethinking so that the men stay at home. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now at the time of education, at the care work. The educational desire of Androsch has suffered a abdominal spot. This socialist model of unity has finally experienced a rejection, but as long as this is still seen, it is of course difficult to achieve something. However, the popular desire has a benefit: It is about the education and education of our children. This has been brought back to the focus of politics. Our motion for a resolution means improving the fiscal consideration of childcare and is a sample of nails for every politician in this House who wants to do more for education. It must be regulated in such a way that not only is there a full internal market taken into account, but it is also taken into account when demanding high-quality follow-up for children and allowing children to receive education. This must also be taken into account. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we create the opportunity to give our children education here, because according to Pisa study, every second child receives follow-up assistance, every second child needs to be helped to follow the instruction and to meet the requirements. Ladies and gentlemen! With this request we also want to achieve that the age limit currently set at random by ten years will be extended to at least the end of compulsory schooling. As long as the children are attached to the school, there should at least be agility of care provision. Because I can't leave a child with ten years of age alone at home – but a child with 11 years of age? At this age of the child must also be given the possibility of deductibility of the costs in order to have a qualified care. I can make it easy for you: Step into constructive negotiations with us! In this context, my previous speaker, Mr Haubner, spoke about the flat tax – we have a very well thought out and sophisticated system to take families into account in order to treat families more taxably. This would be a model we could treat here and benefit from. We have already taken over the tasks of your party, which is for the middle class and the “little” man, we are committed to ensuring that these people can also afford to have their children cared for. We are committed to the “little” man and the “little” woman and are trying to develop a fair tax system so that all these additional limits that we have put forward in this request are no longer necessary. [[Abg. Markowitz: We work for everyone, whether big or small!]] I say: Our money must not go to the EU. Our money must not go to Greece. We need our money for our families, for our youth and for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12741	The next speaker is Mrs Marek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12763	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A large number of measures are set out in this report. This is good, because it takes a wealth of measures, a huge puzzle to reduce the remaining disadvantages of women. However, the report also points out – which has already been addressed by the previous speakers – where there is a central need for action. And this exists, among other things, in the compatibility of family and profession. This is a cracking point and remains a cracking point, as the employment of women is and remains a central challenge. Marriage as a care – this too has already been addressed – is thanks to God no longer the future. The economic independence of women, which also shows divorce numbers, is the central goal, and we need to improve the framework conditions. We have created essential key points with the billing of pensionable times from child rearing. This has made essential success. But economic independence, in order to avoid poverty in old age, is only achieved by self-employment, and therefore the compatibility of family and work is the central challenge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only about childcare, but also about the care of older and old families – and this is also clearly indicated in the report. In this respect, we do not have the solutions as we have in the case of child care. We have invested massively in childcare in recent years, we see the first successes and we are on a right path. In the care and care of older people, the way is still a very long one, especially when it comes to the awareness in the businesses, because for female employees – and there are women in the first place – who are caring for older relatives, understanding in the enterprises is still a quick ending. Another issue in the report is the equality or non-equalisation of women and men in senior positions. There's still a need for action. In education, in higher education, we are well positioned. Women have a very high share here, but unfortunately not in the career rise. We must start with the economy, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of social responsibility that women are in top positions, but simply a question of business, because: Who can succeed if you abandon 50 percent of the talents? And those companies are successful – and this shows international studies, such as from McKinsey, quite clearly – that set to women. zen that place at least 30 percent – but of course it is much better balanced – on women. They are developing more sustainable and stable, and these companies are sustainablely successful. This is where we have to rely on appropriate instruments. I would be pleased if it would be longer to achieve a real commitment to gender balance in the Corporate Governance Code. That would be an instrument. For top positions, Supervisory Board bodies of public authorities there is already a regulation in this respect – here I look forward to the first reports – but there are also support and support programmes such as “future.Women”. This is about encouraging women to support women. I hope that it will be possible to expand it further. We must continue to do so, because it does not help us if the women are top qualified, but does not trust themselves these jobs, the jump to the leadership level. Here we must continue, and I am convinced that we are on a good path here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12814	Mrs Winter's next speech. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12835	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear colleague Worm! I think we have free speech here, and therefore it is absolutely inappropriate for my colleague to prescribe what she has to say here, and be her speech still so blood pressure suspect. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I would like to say to Mrs Schittenhelm: You meant you were a women's politician. You probably mean your colleagues from the ÖVP, too. – We from FPÖ do not call ourselves women's politicians. We call ourselves women's and men's politicians. For us, this is a unity, a harmonious situation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. May. Worm.]] In principle, on the report already mentioned, I would just like to say: Criticism has already been practised in the Committee with regard to the graphic presentation, to the traffic lights. It sometimes seems to me that it is a chemistry textbook from the lower level. It's just like that. But the actual and the relevant are, in fact, the 213 external ministerial measures that Mrs Minister has taken, and all of them with employment policy contexts. Only if you read: 213 measures, then you are once tremendously excited, but unfortunately you have to suppress the enthusiasm immediately, because it is then further explained in the same tone and in the same paragraph that this has little effect, and this is because many of these measures, and this must be taken into account, are still in the infancy and thus cannot show actual amounts and revenues. I mean, Would it not have been more useful to show a little more efficiency that this report would have simply been postponed to a later date? These measures are offers of advice and qualification as well as public relations and are aimed mainly at girls, migrants, older women and workers. And in the context of this, it is unfortunate that both in the real economy and in the relevant key figures they have not brought any positive changes or only little positive changes, because you yourself mark the Gender Pay Gap with a red traffic light, that is, it is infinitely much to do. Unfortunately, I don't have too much time to do this. One thing I would like to add: Because we are always presented and proposed and accused, we could not deal with the word “gender” and with the word “Gender Pay Gap”, I would like to tell you that it is very well known to us that it is a term from economics and sociology, and it actually means gender-specific merits. There's also something to do with this, and that's where this Gender Pay Gap works, namely the Gender Gap Index or Gender Gap Report. And Austria is really not there. If Mrs Schittenhelm has meant that we are a little forward: What Does “Forward ” Mean? We are advanced in the total of 37 to 34, and in the case of wage justice we are still at 116. Job. I also have to say the positive. In the ÖVP there is also something to do, namely to charge the retirement periods for children, or for a child, and then in a row for several children, at the age of four. This means that so-called child rearing times should be included in the calculation. – That’s what we’ve always called for. Therefore – and now I conclude – I have to say: FPÖ is the social home party, and FPÖ is clearly the better family party.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12902	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Musiol. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12923	Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kitzmüller, because I will deal mainly with your request, I would also like to focus briefly on your speech. I do not know how you or your party stands as beauty operations, but what you have suggested here, what you imagine for education, is maximum cosmetic and has nothing to do with the fact that our education system would be reformed and changed positively if Here, for example, you can take out further assistance and other stories. If you call an educational people’s desire, signed by more than 380 000 people, a “boiler” then I would strongly advise you to join your Constitutional Spokesman and all those who have spoken out in your party to direct democracy and really work out a clear position of the FPÖ on the question: How should voters take part in the legislative process? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] ==References====External links== In October, you requested that a mandatory referendum be held on popular desire, starting with a barrier of 150,000 signatures. And then you call more than 380 000 people who have gone to a popular desire here, even though they knew that this will not automatically lead to the introduction of such reforms, because, as the experience of other people's desires has shown, there is also the risk that Parliament will not care about it, a "boiler spot"? I really can't understand that. – We Greens, just as we have supported popular desire, will be very clear about this, and Eva Glavischnig has also made it quite clear in recent days that this popular desire in this House is not simply landed in any drawer or is being treated cosmetically, but is really a start to important reforms that are long overdue. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Against this background, I would also like to remind you – I would not have tried this term if you had not tried it – of the “little man”, and with that I will come to your request and to the “little man”, the “little woman” for which you are speaking, as you say. The 2008 family relief package, which led to a alleged family relief in the tax field, did not include exactly this “little man” and this “little woman”. If, for example, we are talking about the admissibility of childcare, then you know very well that only those people who deserve so much that they can pay taxes, and only those people who have a childcare place at all. Thousands of places are missing, and thousands of places are missing for those people who need them urgently so that they can pursue an activity in order not to live at the poverty threshold or below the poverty threshold. And they're far away from being able to drop babysitting. So speaking here of the “little man ” and of the“ little woman ” is an absolute mockery toward these “little men and women. ” What is the status quo? – You can just put it off, but there is a great uncertainty here. The independent financial senate has just recently taken a decision in which he has clearly said that the so-called grandma and grandpa courses do not meet the quality criteria of child care. There is total ambiguity, which course, which holiday care can be cancelled or not. That can't be in our minds. What has been triggered for the first time – and we have been calling for a long time here in Parliament in the context of child care – is the question of quality discussion: What does quality in childcare mean at all? – This not only means simply keeping up, but it also means financing framework conditions that make education possible here. And they are not given in all these areas. That is why we want something completely different. We say that every child from the first year of life has a right to a place: in a manger, in a kindergarten, in an educational institution, in a mother-in-law – and this is to be financed by the public sector, not by the communities and not by the countries alone, but here the federal government has to make quite clear contributions and make money available, not only the 10 million we have given this year, and not only the 15 million for the coming years, but far more so that each child has a right to this place. There is also a lack of discussion on the question: What is removable and what is not? If every child has a claim, it also means that these places are not allowed to cost anything – say: they are free places – and then it means that everyone – whether their parents deserve so much that they pay taxes, or so little that they fall below – gets education there. And then there is a lack of discussion about the remissibility, because there is no cost left. Against this background my appeal: Let us finally implement the legal claim for all children from the first year of life, and let us not engage in tax discussions!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12996	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13020	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the outset, I would like to refer to the statements made by Mrs Winter. I believe, Madam President, that you are subject to misunderstanding here. I can tell you that child care periods in pension insurance are charged up to a maximum of four years. So I think you might have gotten some sort of information gap somewhere. – This only applies to pensions and child care periods. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now to the report itself. The report is – and this has already been mentioned – presented every two years and is a good tool in the direction of continuing to work there in order simply to combat the disadvantages of women in Austria together. I am proud to note that the IHS of the Federal Government – and thus you, Mrs. Federal Minister – has given a good witness. It is clear that the situation of women in Austria has improved. Nevertheless, it is necessary to continue to be active and active in many respects, in particular when it comes to the field of labour market, occupational activity and the elimination of obstacles to the continuous employment of women. You have recently implemented very good approaches and very good laws, Mrs Federal Minister. I can remind you that there was a law that required a disclosure of income, and I can also remind you that we are working together on the fact that women are also more likely to find themselves in higher positions. This will also make a huge contribution to eliminating the differences in incomes, but also the further differences in incomes – in pensions, in unemployment benefits. As a trade unionist, I am particularly pleased that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, in particular, have also succeeded in developing a work plan in connection with the national work plan on equality between the social partners and the industrial associations. This comprehensive plan, this Convention, to actively address the elimination of discrimination against women in the working world, includes 16 issues, which focus on, for example, the choice of men and women in the field of careers and to measures aimed at increasing the sharing of child care obligations between men and women, as well as on conditions related to the reconciliation of work and family. I think: Good measures will help to support your good path, Mrs Federal Minister, also from the social partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13066	The next speaker is Mrs Lamassoure. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13087	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The issues of equality between men and women as well as equal opportunities are covered by all three applications to be dealt with. The Federal Government's report on the reduction of the disadvantage of women could be said very fluently if you quickly read about it: In the West nothing new! or: Actually, for a hundred years, we have been covering about the same topics that are there: Compatibility of family and profession with the main playground child care, equal pay for equivalent work with the large building site of income differences and also women in leadership positions, which was supported by appropriate statistical material. If you were a little impatient, you could easily despair. However, it is also appropriate to address and look at the things that have been successful. There are 213 measures – that has already been mentioned – which the Federal Government has implemented, which are obviously relatively different in the duration of effectiveness, and there are also – and I think this is very positive and this will be necessary if we want to achieve something for women – measures of other local authorities. In Upper Austria, for example, the introduction of the Free Kindergarten for children from 30 months onwards has led to a substantial increase in the number of children entering the kindergarten, which has a very positive impact on the compatibility of family and work, and has also been created a large number of new jobs. The introduction of the K3 competence centre for karenz and career management is also a very good and essential building block for women in this field. In the case of women in senior positions, there are still enormous deficits when, in the Austrian companies, the boards are about 3 to 5 percent women, depending on companies. Upper Austria, for example, has set itself the goal of providing 35 percent of women in relation to the glass ceiling, at least as far as the national companies and the supervisory authorities are concerned. Two courses on supervisory councils have also taken place. – So very positive signs. And the income reports that need to be drawn up from now on, which are also intended to make income differences transparent, are also a positive signal to women. Upper Austria progresses with a very good example and has about 31 this year. In July, the income reports from national companies with more than 150 employees were already issued. They would not have to do that until the end of 2014. So there is quite a reason for hope, even if the subject, as has been said, is one that is very long-lasting. A few words on Mr Kitzmüller's request: There is an African proverb that says, a whole village is involved in the education of a child, or a whole village is necessary for that. – I would be glad if it was not a village, but a father and mother, that is, both parents and not just the mother. That is why we have allocated this request to the Family Committee, because we believe that it is better removed there. The content can be discussed safely, including on the subject of tax deductibility of the costs of childcare. And there is no need for extreme training, because many are concerned about the hourly care of the children, for example through babysitter. So we can certainly talk about it, including the age system. As I said, this was the wrong committee for us, so we allocated it to the Family Committee. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13133	The next item is the speech by Mr Krist. I would draw attention to the need to interrupt the discussion of the agenda at 3 p.m. So I set the clock to just under 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13154	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I would like to say once again that it is very It is a pleasure that this report will be discussed in plenary and I am 15 years old. Speakers and the first man can also say a few words about this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is gratifying that the IHS has delivered such a positive opinion. The Federal Government is being given a good witness, although much is still worthy of improvement, as we all know, two areas in particular: income shears and the high part-time rate. On the subject of part-time, I would like to give an up-to-date and concrete example because it should illustrate how patient paper can be and is also. Ladies and gentlemen, you certainly know the great shopping stamps in Austria with the famous shops and with the famous boutiques. Almost exclusively there are women in part-time or minor employment. So far, so good – big question mark – if there were not usually offered 20- or 25-hour work contracts and also signed by people who then come in daily work at 30, 40, even 50 hours per week. This is expected, it will be assumed and will be demanded unabated – without any compensation: no time compensation, no more work payment, and no overtime remuneration at all. Ladies and gentlemen, this is totally unacceptable! I would like to say this clearly here. This is not only a great loss for employees, but also for the tax and social security income, but I do not think I need to mention it in this circle. Unfortunately, for a variety of reasons, women often lack the courage to show these abuses, mostly because they need work and income most urgently. However, the fact is that these errors happen daily. As well as ever, women are the sufferers, as well as ever, there are no consequences for employers. As pleased as it is to see a positive development in this report, the actual experience in the world of work is regrettable. Sigmund Freud once said: Work is the strongest bond of man to reality. – All of us, ladies and gentlemen, here in this House, who create and decide on legal frameworks every day, must also be careful to ensure that we give more attention and more control to compliance with the laws and the securitised rights of women workers. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign]] Finally, I would like to thank Mr Rudi Hundstorfer and our women's minister Gabi Heinisch-Hosek for rigorously fighting such abuses if they are made public and made known. We are all stopped to support them. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign again.]] I will do this because it cannot be possible for women workers in these areas to be treated like their own and cheated on their fair pay.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13220	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 3 to 5 of the agenda, so that the required debate on a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:01:30]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport concerning Causa General Entacher (9769/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13256	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 9769/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13410	I declare Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer as the first questioner to justify the urgent question, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13431	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! The days behind us are probably to be described as unique, with this word of course having to be handled with care. But the one-timeness of the process of recognition that a Federal Minister of the Constitution, who has praised the Constitution, refuses to comply with the provisions of the Constitution may be emphasized. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] In the “profile” this Sunday/Monday, the most certainly not to be attributed to the Freedom Party, Herbert Lackner, brought the matter quite precisely to the point. He writes: “It’s been a long time since a politician was as heartily criticized by the vast majority of newspapers as Norbert Darabos did last Tuesday: He has suffered a ‘Blamage’ (’Oberösterreichische Nachrichten’), a ‘Sleep’ (’The Standard’), a ‘Waterloo’ (“Kurier’) and is now in front of a ‘Scherbenhaufen’ (’Small Newspaper’).’ This is the concentrated correctness of the approach we have to discuss today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is at all true that a changing assessment of the activity of the Minister of State for Defence has been made. You have to be sad once again, and then you want to adopt almost hysterical laughter. Unfortunately, Mr Federal Minister is missing the straight line of a reliable political course both in the Austrian army and in respect of the constitutional provisions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us look at Genesis in short terms! It begins with the Eurofighter election promise, which the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs found to be a speaker for the SPÖ at the time, and which was probably the cause of his being raised in ministerial spheres, because even his own comrades were curious, as he would win when the majority of this Eurofighter resolution procedure was surprisingly successful. [[Abg. Prehauser: That was no surprise!]] - Dear friend, you know exactly how big the surprise has been. The reds have not been able to catch themselves, whether the fact that they actually had the nose in front. But that's time story. How did Darabos try to implement his election promise? – He entered into negotiations. What was the outcome of the negotiations? – He has achieved a Eurofighter comparison that has undoubtedly called for the extreme effort of his actions, but he has not made it known to the public or to the defense committee to this day. However, the Court of Auditors has had clear words on this Eurofighter comparison to find cause. Summary: A pure disaster! At the heart of the matter was, only 15 Eurofighters at the same money, but five used. If you were to make a comparison with a car in this context, you could say: A Mercedes 600 SEL has been purchased, but subscriptions have been made to ABS protective devices and as well as other electronic modernities – at the same price. The Minister claims that he has saved 350; the Court of Auditors says that this is not right, either. So it has been achieved in the face of state damage, which from the very beginning has been the trace of the Minister's action dimension. - So far, so bad. The Minister has promised to be able to give more money to the army. Of course, that didn't happen. Instead, he has also taken over the position of the Minister of Sports in the new edition of the coalition and since then, when calculating the models he would like to implement, does not charge the cost of sports, but leaves it in the block of the overall budget for the army. The Court of Auditors has also had to criticise this. We are now coming to the progress of the 2010 event. ==References== In October 2010, the Federal Minister for the Defense of the State announced his belief in the Constitution of the State. For him – and these words have often been repeated and written in the annals of the history of time – the obligation was “meshed in stone. ” Two days later, Mayor Häupl insists that the Vienna election for the SPÖ will probably go wrong and that the voices of the boys, speaking of the military, may be needed, and in the alliance with the Boulevard the Minister is octroying himself to take a 180-degree turn and to adopt the general obligation of military, which he publicly described as “meshed in stone” in the presence of the Federal President and all the higher dignitaries in question three days before. He turns from one day to the other to the model of the professional army. - So far, so bad. It is not easy, of course, to assign a model of defence to the country and its acceptable threat from various models of the military constitution, but it has only become more and more absurd. Minister Darabos has called for experts from other European countries to come to a hearing in Austria who have presented their military systems in order to have sworn witnesses for the correctness of his consideration process. I was there and can say that it was high-grade speakers, from countries where Austria cannot take an example because of the size, geographical situation of the country and the number of inhabitants, namely from the Federal Republic of Germany – I can remind you that this is a country with 80 million inhabitants – and from Sweden, whose length is 2,500 kilometres in geographical dimensions, from countries with a completely different territory. Sweden – it has always placed great emphasis on air weapons and marines; in Austria, no trace of this is of course a matter of course – is inadmissibly used as an example, but a country that is at hand as an example, namely Switzerland, is left out of the water. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The questionability of this thinking process, which leads to the Minister in a line of thought by Mayor Häupl about the “Kronen Zeitung” is the foreplay of this drama. The tragedy is the case, as Chief of General Mag. He makes use of his right as a citizen, speaks freely of his opinion, and, moreover, calls upon his civil servant to act for the good of the Republic, sees himself called upon to appeal to it, and points out that these model calculations of the Minister are never and never possible. The Minister ordered that the initial calculation be changed in such a way that it would conform to his political statements. [[Call the SPÖ: How do you know?]] Since this does not work, there is a night and fog action – but it cannot be said, because it has been an afternoon action – whose process cannot be suppressed by shame. It was said that trust was lost. That is the good right of every human being in relation to another. It was also said that he had dealt with the Chief of Staff and the result was that the Chief of General Staff had been called. That is certainly not true. It is true, rather, that half an hour before not the minister himself, as he falsely claimed to the Parliament, instead a section chief appointed by him announced to the Chief of Staff the appointment that the “Kronen Zeitung” had already announced by haste, the Chief of General Staff was to be appointed. [[Abg. List: No advertising!]] – This is really not to be believed and not to be outrageous of the system of the Austrian federal government, which is responsible to the Constitution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now, contrary to the expectation that was manifestly present with regard to his person, General Staff Chief Entacher has proven standing quality and has decided not to let himself be distanced from it by the air that has been brought to him, but to exercise his rights as a citizen and civil servant. – The outcome of this is discussed today. [[Abg. Grosz: Where's General Entacher? Is Entacher there too?]] Not only that half a year and more has passed until the Ministry under the direction of the Federal Minister had written a 200-page writing, which was then referred to as a notice, which should complement the oral appointment order by means of moderate written notice, this document is contrary to illegality. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: From!]] The appeals commission, chaired by a professional judge and under the head office of an employer and employee representative, came to the conclusion that this decision should be lifted without replacement. This was clearly commented on in the newspaper reports I mentioned earlier. Instead of the Minister, let's say, with caution – I don't want to say, remorseful, that would be too much, but manly perceptive – says: I've made a mistake, I apologise with abductors, and I apologise to the state!, he comes to a second explanation model: Yes, everything I did was right, because it is the primacy of politics! [[Abg. List: The primacy!]] – Please, there are different opinions as to whether “the primacy ” or “the primacy”, we choose “the primacy”. It is the primacy of politics. – That’s interesting! I already know this completely insignificant form of speech, that is, in companies, when the Chief Lieutenant explains to the recruits in citizenship education that not the officers, the general and the generality make the laws, that they are not responsible for the military constitution, that not the commander-in-chief of the army can do something for that there is little money, therefore little equipment, but government and parliament. That means the simple person who wants to explain something to his people with “primary politics”. This can still be done, but it must be clear that there are useful and useless forms of expression. “Excellent politics” does not appear in the Constitution, does not appear in literature, does not appear in any knowledge of the Constitutional Court, but if one wants to think about this form in a mental way and see how an insect can be seen, one should recognize that politics, political action and political action are trying to develop political ideas within the framework of the law and that, as well as it goes, helps to break through. This is essentially the structure of the states of Western democratic constitution. But only because of the constitutional situation does any political idea get legal liability. The summit of the whole thing was to give unconstitutional desire to abductors and also to threaten other officers who are faithful to the Constitution in their position. That's the scandal! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] Entacher has acted within the framework and on the basis of the Constitution and has raised his voice. The principle of legality is applicable in Austria in accordance with Article 18(1). 1 B-VG: ‘The entire state administration may only be exercised on the basis of the laws.’ We have in the Constitution in Article 9a the principle of general compulsory military service. It is therefore also necessary to adopt and implement the simple legal provisions based on them in accordance with the Federal Constitution. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] Someone who calls on the constitutional situation in the exercise of his duties, that is a scandal for the constitution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: not the only one!]] – Perhaps, Mr Commissioner, there are others who are looking for their trample path next to the Constitution, so the action of Minister of Defense Darabos will not be better. Put to the point: Mr Federal Minister, if you do not want to withdraw the many calls, if you do not want to follow what I see for various reasons, then something would be very important at the time: It would be recognized that if you are in charge of your ministry, the Constitution at the head and the laws below are to be applied under the Constitution. You can, of course, find a majority here in the house – that is, you can try to remove a constitutional majority that disapproves of Article 9a and your favorite model of general military service and introduce a professional force. That's legitimate. In your ministry, because of this legal situation, which you have to achieve here in the house, is only legitimate if this law is to be passed. I can allow the modest prediction that you are far away from the reality of such a procedure if I can believe the announcements of the ÖVP – which I like to do –. Therefore, any conduct, any instruction you give on the basis of a non-existent constitutional situation, is per se illegal. I would therefore ask you to refrain from any illegality in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] They are to the detriment of the Republic, they are to the harm of the army, they are to your personal harm, and I ask you to respect the higher good, namely the existence and trust of the Austrian population in the army and in their support. Live the Austrian army!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13624	To answer the urgent question, Mr Mag. Darabos. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13645	Madam President. High house! As you have explained today, Mr Fichtenbauer – as chairman of the National Defence Committee – we have worked very well together – there is also the possibility of further straining this bow than I actually intended. [[Abg. Grosz: Is this the farewell speech now?]] In all, you have raised the question of the Austrian federal army here, and I would like to say quite frankly to you at the beginning: We in the Austrian Federal Army were presented with very large security-policy challenges in 2011 and these tasks were carried out highly professionally. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neugebauer.]] For example, from the January of this year until June of this year, the Austrian Federal Army has sent the Battlegroups, the European Union's crisis fire brigade – the best Leumund testimonies within the European Union! In Libya, in Egypt, the Austrian Federal Army has carried out evacuations not only of Austrian citizens but also of citizens of other nations – well done! We have had to send reserve units to Kosovo after there was an unrest in the North Kosovo; we are now the strongest non-NATO troupeer there – well fulfilled! We in the Federal Government together with the coalition partner ÖVP have decided to send 160 soldiers to Lebanon – perfectly fulfilled! This is the Austrian German army, behind which the Austrian Federal Government stands, behind which the Republic of Austria stands and behind which I am the Minister of Defence! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have – you have put forward a motion of censure, so I think I can use this word in order to defend myself against this distrust with facts and to present these facts to you today. [[Abg. Doppler: Talk about it!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We have a total of 1,500 soldiers in foreign service – 1,500! This is a value that we have rarely been able to show in the history of the Austrian federal army, a value that goes far beyond the requirements of the Austrian Federal Government, but which makes me proud, which brings us among the top nations worldwide, and which also leads us to be top in Europe. 1,500 soldiers! We have first adopted the quota for Lebanon and also for the Golan Heights. – This is the Austrian federal army, behind which the government stands and behind which I stand! Last year we completed 41,000 hours of work on disaster protection, and I hope that at least we agree that these are very, very important hours for the security of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And we have completed assistance missions, for example also at the eastern border of Austria, which are now ending, but which have caused more than 20 years for the Austrian army to be there for the security of the Austrian population. – That is the German army, which the Federal Government stands for, and for which I stand as Minister of Defence! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The list of these benefits could go further. I will save you today, but it makes me proud – it fills me with pride! – that the German army fulfils 100 percent of its tasks – I say quite consciously in the Austrian Parliament – 100 percent in the past and will fulfill 100 percent in the future. [[Call:Thank you]] The foundation for this high quality of the Austrian federal army is also that we – my predecessors and I – always think about the need for reform in the Austrian federal army. And all the parties represented in Parliament, all the parties present here today, jointly decided in 2005 within the framework of the Federal Reform Commission that we are also moving forward this reform. And of 118 recommendations of this reform commission, then under Helmut Zilk, 106 are fully, mostly or partly realized. I would also like to say that quite consciously, because, so to speak, you seem to have doubts about our freedom of reform or have other reasons for this request today – from my point of view, there is no ministry that has done such a great deal of reform. I know that this does not like to hear the opposition and that very many measures, so to speak, mean an up-to-date rise for certain representatives of their parties, but it corresponds to the facts: There is no ministry where so many reforms have been thought of and implemented so far as the Ministry of Defence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] I would also like to tell you in concrete terms, because you are now, so to speak, also speaking in a rhetorical way about what reforms these are. We have reduced the central station from 1,200 people to 900. . You, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, belong to a party that repeatedly complains of this reform. Where, then, is the support if one really implements this reform? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] I have not heard anything from you: not from your representatives in the department, nor from you here in Parliament! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Reduce from 1,200 to 900 officials coupled with socially acceptable measures. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Is that where the general counts?]] – I am not an unsocial person. It's about making things fit for the future tasks, so to speak, and that's what we're doing. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] We have reduced the administrative burden by 10 percent. We have 118 properties – also with the preliminary work of my colleague Günther Platter; 118 properties! – the Austrian federal army already sold: a property proceeds of € 185 million! We have reduced the number of military attachés abroad. We have also created a potential for savings. And we have achieved one thing – and that is quite important; and I would like to talk about reforms today; I would like the whole Parliament to be on this reform process – and we, together with Mrs Finanzminister, who is also sitting here on the government bank today, have managed to ensure that 400 officials from the Department of Defense can be transferred to the financial unit to carry out tasks that are important for Austria, such as combating corruption, combating black-and-collar work or combating gambling if it is illegal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer]] – I think that’s a process you should recognise. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a reform of how to imagine this in the Austrian administrative system! I have offered the Minister of the Interior 200 officials who are up-to-date to ensure that the police can walk on the street and we can move on in the administrative area. This too is not an ideological question of the Minister of Defense Darabos, that is a question that concerns the whole Republic! And each of us in this house should be of the opinion that more police officers are good on the street. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] And if I can take care of this with my colleague, Mikl-Leiter, with an innovative administrative measure, then you – I do not expect applause, but at least a nod – should come up with a recognized nod, because this is an administrative reform that we might remember in other resorts, and it is a good reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: And how's the mumbing at Entacher?]] Mr Strache, I would like to address this question. And this should not be underestimated, too, in all the criticisms that you, as opposition parties, should always be articulated, which is indeed the salt in the soup of democracy: I would like to point out that during my ministry, €2.5 billion – not Schilling, but €2.5 billion! – have been invested in the modernisation of the force. We have bought trucks, we have bought multi-purpose vehicles, 150 in number, we have bought new radar systems, we have re-designed the system Gold hood – which should also be known, even if you don't deal with the German army every day. We have re-issued the “fight train” – a wish of the troop – and we have passed the CONRAD military radio system on to the force with 5,000 devices, we have purchased for the Hercules C-130 container engine, we have upgraded the 23 type AB 212 helicopters, we have purchased 15 new all-vehicle vehicles for ABC protection, i.e. for atomic, biological and chemical threats, and we have invested 420 million € in infrastructure measures. – This is the federal army I imagine for the future! I could also imagine even more money for the Austrian federal army, but we are in a difficult process; only today have we decided on a debt brake in the government. It will not be easier in the next few years, but it must be pointed out that there will be investment, that is, € 420 million! I would now like to say an example: Güssing. A second example: Milk, which will be completed by 2015. I would also like to take this opportunity today to say quite clearly to you: For party political reasons, I do not let the Austrian federal army speak badly. [[Call at the ÖVP: yourself!]] The services are created by the Austrian Federal Army and we create the financial conditions for investing in infrastructure and procurement. In this respect, the blatant step is also an act to be held against if, for party reasons, it is presented here so to speak. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Clickovits: That's not what we do, Mr. Minister!]] On the question of Entacher, which was raised today: There is, of course, a political background to be discussed here, and so I am grateful to you for this urgent procedure today. – The Federal Army does not stand in front of a “discipline”, as you say, but it is in front of a direction decision: Do we leave everything as it is, or do we try to make the federal army fit for the future under changed financial conditions? Are we willing to cut off old pots to say this very salopp? Are we willing to secure the high quality of the Austrian federal army with reform measures? And are we willing to address the challenges of the future together? – I believe – and I am 100% in favour of this – that we must address these changes, that we also need these changes. And there are three main reasons why – and these urgent ones give us the opportunity to discuss this – today also in the House. First: On the one hand, after the end of the Cold War – and I hope we all agree there – this East-West story is dead more than 20 years ago, it has fallen away. From my point of view, this has also removed the basis for a mass army. Secondly, new deployment scenarios require a flexible, from my point of view slimmer and quickly applicable federal army from professionals and specialists. And thirdly, I should like to remind you that you have decided this together here in the House, namely the recommendations of the German Parliamentary Reform Commission. It says literally: “The division of the German army 2010” is “so that later developments, such as the suspension of compulsory military service and the conversion to a volunteer army, are possible.” – No more and no less I do. We face new challenges: international terrorism – I hope we agree that this is a very big challenge – the failure of states – we have seen this in Africa, in other regions of the world. We have consequences of attacks on the security of our IT systems, we have to deal with the threat of strategic infrastructure. – These are just some of the dangers that come to us, and I believe that we can do this with the model I have proposed. We have now agreed in the government to be able to always provide 12 500 soldiers for civil protection and at least 1 100 soldiers for foreign use. I remember that we now have 1,500 soldiers in foreign service. And I can also ask the question today, because it is obviously a question... – Yes, I answer your questions, you do not need to be afraid. [[Abg. Neubauer: No, you should answer the questions!]] [[Call:To the case]] Nearly 60 percent of the 24 000 in system maintenance functions can be found among basic defence servants: Driver, cook, waiter, writer. [[Abg. Strache: Civil servants we need!]] – I really wonder if this is your future concept for the Austrian federal army. It's not mine, I say quite openly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore believe that it is high time to carry out pilot projects – and I will address this once again when answering questions – which are also aimed at creating a new Austrian federal army. I see no reason to react emotionally here either. It is about setting up model associations with professional and time soldiers. It is about strengthening and upgrading the militia. [[Abg. Strache: This is what the Miliz sees completely differently!]] That should also be in your mind and also in the sense of the militia. It is about reducing system holders, and I hope we agree that this is a future project for the Austrian Federal Army. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: The officer company sees this differently!]] And these pilot projects are linked to your actions! These pilot projects have already been thought of on the basis of the recommendations of the Federal Force Reform Commission, and so I feel committed to the mandate of the Austrian Parliament and do not do more than you have already recommended to me or my predecessor in 2005. Ladies and gentlemen! Reforms are rightly required. I am trying to implement these reforms. It's not always pleasant – I have to hold it, that's not a question, but I'm standing for it. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: You're on the wood road!]] And we have already seen a symbol in Chad's use to end this general part – where many of you were against it – that we are on the right track, namely that we can carry out the tasks of the Austrian Federal Army with professionals and with military soldiers. And I'm not getting rid of this way either. On the questions. – I will answer each question individually. Question 1: The reason for the change was official and, from my point of view, was given in important service interest. On question 2: The agreement on the transfer of the General Entacher took place on 24 February, with the notice of the Authority. ==References== On the question 3, whether any non-residents have been involved in this decision, I say a clear no. [[Abg. Grosz: Häupl, Diedand, Rudas!]] The answer to Question 4. Question No 5 is also to be seen in the reasoning for official interests and was justified by a loss of confidence from me. On question 6: ==References====External links== ==References== As regards question 7, how long the investigation procedure took: In the course of the procedure several requests for extension of the deadline for the opinion were submitted, which was also approved. Thus, the course of the proceedings and the duration of the proceedings were significantly influenced by the objections of the legal representative of General Entacher. The investigation therefore lasted until mid-August 2011. [[Call:One year]] Question 8: No. This falls within the competence of the Service Authority. On the question 9: This is not due to the answer to question 8. Questions 10 and 11: As you know, the Appeal Commission did not confirm the loss of confidence – from the point of view of this Commission. The Commission's decision is taken by me – and this is the answer to question 12 – and I, as you know, have also reintroduced General Entacher by way of a ministerial arrangement. On the question 13: No costs have been incurred. Question 14: In what form did you receive the appointment of General Entacher?: I'm with the general on the 8th. A personal discussion was held at 7.30 a.m. on November and discussed the further procedure both in the department and outside the department. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath]] On the question 15, whether there is a restructuring of the General Staff: It is not restructured by the General Staff, but the entire central office. It is the goal to eliminate double conductivity. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Grosz.]] – Because They laughed: There will be no “Lex Entacher”. [[Abg. Grosz: Now he sets up sections so that he can re-write!]] It is about faster procedures, it is about narrowing the structures, and it will be illustrated in cooperation with Section 1 and the General Staff in accordance with the Federal Budget Act which has been decided in this House, Mr Deputies, the proposed control of impact in the Central Office. [[Calls and calls between Mr Silhavy and Mr Grosz]] Questions 17 and 22: The pilot projects I am discussing are measures – from my point of view – to further professionalise the armed forces. These pilot projects are based on the recommendations of the Federal Force Reform Commission and are derived from the government programme. For this purpose, it is mentioned among other things: ‘System maintenance uses shall be reduced to a minimum.’ This is a quote from the government programme; therefore, the pilot project to reduce the number of functional soldiers. Second quote: “The new tasks must be handled only by highly trained soldiers and highly qualified specialists.” Therefore, the creation of a model association exclusively with professional and time soldiers. And the third quote from the government programme: “Modernisation and professionalization of the militia in the context of the implementation of the German army reform.” Therefore, a project to strengthen the militia. And I can remind the ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ that in this consensus I have already referred to, the Federal Force Reform Commission has been set out in Chapter 3.2: “To shape the division of the German army in 2010 in such a way that later developments, such as the suspension of the military service and the conversion to a volunteer army, are possible.” – That is why I also do the pilot projects. [[Abg. Strache: Possible but not legally valid at the moment!]] On the question 18: I am looking for understanding that I cannot yet provide detailed information on locations due to the status of processing. The fact is that many associations – and I would like to expressly stress this today – show great interest in participating in these pilot projects. [[Abg. Ing. Sure!]] On question 19: What is the legal basis for the projects?: The legal basis is the applicable law on service and remuneration, as well as the law on military law. Question 20: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. “Do you acknowledge the principle of general military service as enshrined in the Constitution?” – I am of course in favour of the Austrian federal constitution, at the same time I consider it my task to make progress on necessary reforms and also to prepare for the House, in the case of the case of legislative changes. But, of course, I am in favour of the Constitution and therefore also of the established principle. On question 21: That's not gonna happen. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] On questions 23-25: These do not concern any subject of execution, although I do not mind – the question is missing due to the reply of the previous ones. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Federal Minister, the question can never be missed, only the answer!]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] You've got that in front of you. [[Subsequent calls at SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] – The answer to the question is missing, okay. Questions 23 to 25 are not a matter of execution, but I say quite openly to you: I have a good basis for talking to the chief commander of the Austrian federal army, but you can Of course, he also likes to ask himself how he evaluates achievements on my part. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: The President of the Federal Government is different from you!]] But in principle, it is not a question of execution, and that is why this answer is missing. I would like to thank you for the attention I have paid to the reform process.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14148	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14176	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I think you really have to use the opportunity to clear up here with some sort of untruth. Mr Federal Minister, I have prepared a speech, but I have, because of your general part and because of your reply to the question, had to reword this speech, because, Mr Federal Minister, who once says the untruth, one no longer believes it. This is also true here in the House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Whoever lies, you don't believe him!]] If you, Mr Federal Minister, claim in your statement of entry that the Austrian federal army fulfils 100 percent of the required tasks, I say: Yes, that's right. But not you, Federal Minister, fulfill these tasks, but the servants, the soldiers of the Federal Army – despite your chaos and uncertainty policy in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Here, from this speaker's point of view, one must also say thank you to the staff who, despite this uncertainty policy, are motivated every day and provided with a great deal of service. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Next untruth, Minister of State: They even write in the accompanying booklet on the 2012 budget that the existing budget resources are intended to ensure the limited operation of the federal army. Now, as if everything were all right, it is simply false to the German army, the entire population of Austria and a sourry. - Excuse me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[He-Ruf at the SPÖ.]] Next untruth, Minister of State: They claim to be a model for the entire federal government because of your great reforms in recent years. Now I ask you why we had an election in the BMLVS 1400 staff committee during the 2009 personnel election, and not, as you say, just around 900. This is the next untruth, Mr Federal Minister, which is once again clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: 1 400 electors! Unique!]] The difference, Mr Federal Minister, between our view of reform and your view of reform is as follows: Yes, it's right, we have 3,500 servants in the Austrian federal army who are in charge. This means that they really have no task. – But: If you celebrate today's change to the Ministry of Finance, to the financial resort as a big throw, I'll tell you as a staff representative and as the Federal Army's Chief of Staff: The age of these people is 40.7 years. These are highly qualified officers and officers who do not see a future in your federal army, Mr. Federal Minister, and therefore, unfortunately, leave our department. It was also written to you in the main book: No one goes away voluntarily from his profession, into another ministry. These are your framework conditions in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next untruth, Minister of State: Evaluation Commission on the points of the Reform Commission, where you think 80 percent have been implemented. Firstly, there is no final report from the evaluation committee, you know. There is a paper that uses about 50 percent of these points. And, ladies and gentlemen, we all know here in this House that these things are implemented that were easy to finance. There, however, where money should have been taken into control, nothing has happened, Minister of State. I will also read some of your statements here. On the subject of budget increase: ==References== February 2010 said: Yeah, I'm gonna have to ask for more budget. – Factim, Federal Minister, is around €64 million less available for the German army in 2011. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The fact is, too, Mr Federal Minister, that you have also said here in this House that the existing budget does not allow the reform, as proposed by the Federal Army Reform Commission, to be implemented. So: Today to say it's all on track, it's just not right, it's not true. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] The next accusation, Mr. Federal Minister, which I can't save you – was also discussed, but here again for everyone in the House – is the manipulation and the beautiful dyeing and beautiful computing of your famous model 3. You, Mr. Federal Minister, claim in the newspaper "Austria" on 8 October. January 2011, the new army no longer cost a cent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today we know that this has been calculated so long, even with very consciously wrong-chosen numbers, until you have come to this famous 2.18 billion € budget. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Petzner and Mr Grosz.]] The fact is that you simply forgot about €0.5 billion to prefer this model 3 preferred by the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Grosz: you will also be moved to Siberia!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Unreasonable!]] Mr. Federal Minister, do not you believe that all the parties represented here in this House – I say carefully – are so credulous that they do not also look through this numbering game, and not in vain there is massive criticism from your own ranks as far as these calculations are concerned. Mr. Federal Minister, we are not here for the first time today. I think you are the record holder of mistrust requests in this House – probably right. Most of these applications have also been submitted by us in recent years. But I really can't save you, because the Causa Entacher is only the i-tumble of a whole chain of, I say so, unfortunate circumstances – unfortunately, you have also pushed ahead accordingly. I am perfectly aware that you did not answer Question 11 at the time of the reply, namely the question of whether your 2010 National Council speech – where you were asked what the relationship to the Chief of Staff would look like – and you claimed that there was no paper between you and the Chief of Staff and he was the best man of the Federal Army – was also part of the assessment of the Appeal Commission. [[call to the FPÖ]] – Yes, of course, this was also part of the assessment of the appeals commission, it was even one of the main reasons why this decision has not actually been passed through in this form. Mr Federal Minister, if you answer questions here in front of the House, I ask you, even unpleasantly, perhaps to answer a little embarrassing questions, for this we are also here, or the parliamentary control mechanisms. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion, Mr Federal Minister, I should like to make the following request on the basis of the facts and facts that are now listed: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this more often here from this speaker's desk: It is no longer five to twelve, it is really time to put an end to this drift. I also say it again and again quite consciously to this side, also to the ÖVP. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. Petzner.]] Once again, your responsibility has also been asked, and I wonder how long you would like to see a Federal Minister coming far away from your government, far away – I hope at least – from negotiating with your political group and easily putting the German army and the security of Austria at risk for party policy purposes. I ask you to finally confess color and finally be this security party that you are always pretending to be!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14385	Mr Kunasek, by apologising for the word ‘sausage’, can I assume that you have taken this word back? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: pigry!]] [[Abg. Kunasek: No!]] Then I'll give you a call for order. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Call FPÖ and BZÖ:1 000 €!]] [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of Abg. Kunasek) Be careful that you won't be moved!]] The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: to submit a few proposals for the President of the Council!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14506	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14527	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! We have brought it far to be found in this house for the word “cleaning ”! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point this out. – Mr Grosz, when you open your mouth, I think with sadness of Mr Faul, that is all I say. [[Abg. Grosz: Lock in!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a censure today is not only justified, it would also be acceptable, as the applicant himself has said, if the Minister did not resign. This is the truth and the puddle core. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are accusing a minister today is that we should have blamed every minister in the giant of the last eight ministers, for example, to have called for too little money to get too little money. [[Abg. Strache: So no one has acted against the Constitution!]] Each of us knows how a ministry comes to a budget. The general possibilities of the State are the basis, the requirements are the basis. In times where education, where health, where pensions, where the economy has major problems, will have to be saved where tomorrow does not face the big threat at the doorstep. But, of course, it must not be overlooked that the obligations, the protection of the population, the protection of disasters and foreign operations are to be achieved. And that is the responsibility of the Minister, and his responsibility is also to assess how this task can best be solved. Our assignment can be to control and provide advice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] We are always happy to take advice from you, Mr. Colleague, but not in the matter of federal army. [[Abg. Mr Strache: You have also criticized the Minister of State in the party!]] – Mr colleague, if I have something to criticize, I say so too, do not hide myself and do not shout out, but try to argue objectively. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Have the courage to say that too!]] There are, of course, differences of opinion, which is not a question either. I do not even want to see that with 183 Members I agree. That would not be democracy, and it is therefore good if there are critical voices that may also ensure that mistakes are avoided. But to claim exclusively to be right, I believe that none of us here in this House is entitled to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a popular attack point or target is always the attempt not to have to buy Eurofighters or at least to reduce them. We know that the government, which was still in office after the election, was still able to settle a gag contract that made it almost impossible to get out of the treaty. So we got three planes less. One can discuss this in whatever form these planes are in, but they were not really very old either. There's nothing we should think of. I have made the effort to calculate the operating costs of these Eurofighters once again – I was also involved in the Eurofighter Committee, so I have heard the promises of the then ministers again and again. [[Call the FPÖ:Photo of the Eurofighters! is a fan of Eurofighters!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't turn off!]] I'm going out of the three planes once. Everyone knows three planes, one around €100 million, which is €300 million less. We heard at that time that more than €45 000 would not cost the hour in terms of operating costs. We know that at that time the critics, including us, already stood at €75 000 in the room – this is relevant today, we know. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: For a photo!]] Just the fact that three planes are less to move, save us €22.5 million in the year, in ten years it is €225 million after Adam Ries. In addition, the €350 million saved on aircraft is a savings of € 572 million compared to € 600 million, which you have given us at the conclusion of this contract, which this aircraft will cost us. And today to make the Minister responsible for not having money for necessary reforms, that is double-edged, ladies and gentlemen. You'd have to think about it before. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does that have to do with the attacher? Is one of these planes called "latachers"?]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Petzner.]] And when I look at the BZÖ and the Freedom Party, I see that the access to this discussion is a different one. At the Freedom Party, I may still make honest efforts to bring something in. At BZÖ I don't understand the excitement. From the beginning, they were in favour of getting the plane. They were from the beginning for the professional army. From the very beginning, you were in favour of doing so exactly until 2006, and from then on you were against it, only because Mr Darabos is taking a path that is aimed at reforming the German army with the means he has available. [[Call the BZÖ: That's right!]] And the resources that he has available, we decide by distributing the budget on behalf of the Ministries. [[Call the FPÖ: There's no such thing as that!]] [[Abg. Petzner: You didn't understand! Thank you, sit down!]] [[Abg. Strache: That's the Mobbing reason against Entacher?- Oh, my God!]] That is why I ask you to consider what things are of priority to us. The services of the army do not suffer. The achievements of the soldiers abroad, domestically are excellent and you will not be able to make them bad either. Thank God the achievements are not comparable to what your party has done in the finances in Carinthia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14773	Mr Maij-Weggen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14795	Madam President. My esteemed Federal Minister and gentlemen from the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, in your answer to your question and your brief statement, you have pointed out that last year and in the past, the Austrian Federal Army undoubtedly complied with its position and carried it out very professionally. I can certainly share this view with you, and you have rightly pointed out the positive tasks we are carrying out abroad and referred to the last use of Lebanon. I can share all of that. And I can also share the opinion that the Austrian federal army, with its cadre, with its military soldiers and above all with its recruits, is doing excellent work. I would also like to thank you very much, on behalf of the Austrian People's Party, for this, and to encourage you, even in the future, despite greater difficulties in meeting these tasks. But, Minister of State: “Whoever is not willing to lead the German army together with me into a new future must know that I will not be afraid of human consequences.” With this announcement, Mr Federal Minister, at the beginning of this year you launched the Causa Entacher, which has become a personal waterloo for you, what we know today, with this decision. In the end, an even greater chaos has arisen for the Federal Army, and you have the responsibility to do so. Mr. Federal Minister, the announcement of the introduction of a professional force has not only caused misunderstanding with us as a coalition partner, but also often, of course, also with other parties and, above all, with parts of the Austrian federal army. It has caused great uncertainty in the cadre, and it has led to the recruitment of the future being insecured. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Distrust!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Retirement mature! Are you staying with me?]] Even the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, in the end, has meant that he is holding fast to the constitutional tasks, to the maintenance of the obligation to do so. And you arbitrarily, with the reason of the loss of trust, dismissed abductors. I say, in fact, it was not a loss of confidence from you, but it was an undemocratic intervention in the right to freedom of expression. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: motion of censure!]] Mr Federal Minister, there is no doubt that the primacy of politics is particularly true of the Federal Government when it comes to political decisions. But the primacy of politics does not have the right to go beyond the rule of law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's why he resigns!]] I mentioned earlier that you actually brought about the appointment of Entachers without need. You have launched the professional army, even though you yourself are in your answer... – By the way, one must also address questions, Mr Federal Minister, as you answer questions. This is simply a farce and provocation for every Member! [[Demonstrative applause with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] [[Abg. Strache: Not that he is the next to be excluded from the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's just kicking his own grave!]] Federal Minister! You have done all of this with regard to the Austrian Federal Army, the professional army, without any doubt without our consent and without agreement with us. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I think you will be transferred soon...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mr Federal Minister, you ultimately have to answer this, but not only you, but also the Federal Chancellor, who has appointed you to this function. I personally criticised the public and said you were ready for withdrawal. Personally, I have nothing to say back because the facts have not changed. But, Mr Federal Minister, we as ÖVP will not, of course, comply with this request for withdrawal of the opposition and therefore also do not support this request, because in the coalition we still believe that we may be able to implement further improvements together for the Austrian federal army in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14987	Now, Mr. Dr. Pillow to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15008	Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ spokesperson, Mr Prehauser, said something very important about the urgent question concerning Eurofighter procurement. It's just that this isn't for negotiation today. The debate is a urgent question to the Causa Entacher, and I would have welcomed it if there had been any comments from the SPÖ. In my opinion, there is a lot to be said about this, not only against the Minister of Defence, but also with regard to General Entacher. [[Abg. Grosz: That's what the colleague Cap does!]] I have met Mr General Entacher in the Federal Hero-Reform Commission, in which I was able to work together with representatives of the other political groups under the direction of Helmut Zilk to develop reform proposals in person and in a very professional way. I personally value him as an extraordinarily integrated person and officer and have not the slightest confidence in him regarding the necessary reform of the Austrian federal army. In the Bundesheer-Reform Commission, it was our consensus to consider the Austrian federal army at the time as an army of best-in-all before yesterday – despite the many qualified and committed persons who had been serving there and deserved something else. I have basically felt Mr. General Entacher, even before he became Chief General, in his activity as a kind of museum keeper of a federal army of yesterday. This was certainly not the person that the Austrian federal army needed at the top. Now I draw a comparison to the Ministry of the Interior, I'll do that again later. When the ÖVP took over the Ministry of the Interior, under Ernst Strasser it was once politically cleaned and recolored. As the SPÖ with Mr Mag. Darabos took over the Ministry of Defence, something completely different happened. Mr Mag. Despite many warnings, Darabos has also taken himself out of circles of the Federal Army Reform Commission as Chief General of Staff, not because of his professional qualifications, not because of his experience and support of the Federal Army Reform Commission, but solely because of his party book. [[Abg. Strache: He's a SPÖ member!]] [[Abg. Strache: Because of the party book!]] Now we see the difference between SPÖ and ÖVP also in this case: While the Austrian People's Party operates the party book industry highly professionally, the SPÖ even fails the party book economy. [[Abg. Grosz: And the SPÖ makes it unprofessional!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Yes!]] The case of Entacher is nothing but completely flawed party book economy. One has taken someone who actually did not trust, but it has been said that he is our highest-ranking party book in the military state defense. Minister of Defense Mag. Darabos! In my opinion, this was the beginning of a development that could only go wrong. I personally believe that you wanted to implement the federal reform, but that has gone completely wrong. They didn't want the Eurofighters, that went completely wrong. They want to abolish the obligation to do so, I fear the same. But I'll come back to that. Now you have commissioned models and rationally and correctly said to Chief of Staff Entacher: Mr. General Chief of Staff, let this be calculated once, I need plausibly calculated models. Entacher has expected and delivered, and then he has done something for which I would not have understood in your place: He handed you the models. You then presented the most useful model in your opinion, and then the model-through-general got up and said: All stupid, I'm against it, I delivered the models, but I dissociate myself from it. Now you can say: Okay, that's where there's a double hooker. But what rights does the Minister have in this situation? Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Tell me something about how Your government members deal with officials who are slightly different from, let's say, a former Minister of the Interior! [[Abg. Grosz: Strasser! That's it!]] I can imagine that. Faith You're really saying that some guy in the Ministry of the Interior would have gotten up and said: I do not agree with a measure taken by the Minister or I am not entirely of her opinion! That would have survived for only one day? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Straster would have a laptop hail...!]] [[Abg. Grosz: No, a laptop hail!]] Faith You really do? Mr Grosz, you are right that a laptop hail would have fallen on these officials under Ernst Strasser, plus disciplinary proceedings. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Grosz]] [[Consistency with greens and bZÖ as well as with the Abg. Bitch.]] Excuse me, ask Dr. Haidinger! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Come out and explain to us why you defended Dr. Haidinger in the Interior Ministry to the last black blood drop! He said his own opinion. Of course you fought for him. No one in the ÖVP can remember how much you fought for him and then lost to a party-free Interior Minister. That was the situation. And now we're defending Entacher! Mr. General Entacher has a single happiness, namely that he is a member of the Austrian federal army and not the police. This is his only happiness, because Minister Darabos leaves at least the legal path open to him. I would have liked to see if Mrs. Fekter had left even the slightest legal path open to the police general Entacher! [[Abg. Grosz: She would've locked him up!]] [[Abg. List: It would have locked him up!]] Nevertheless, this rule of law is to be taken into account in relation to abductors. But there remains a question: Should a Ministry and, in particular, the Austrian Federal Army be led by a Minister of Defence, who can never again and in my opinion, in part, have confidence in his Chief General for good reasons? Is that really the new civil service heroism? I can already imagine that Mr Neugebauer sees this way. But I see it a little differently. It must be possible in this country that one can reform and that a political officer gives his officials instructions in such a way that they then implement reforms or abandon their function. But it is not possible that officials sit down, just as at the time a Director-General for Public Security, under a Social Democratic Minister of the Interior, whom I personally appreciated, made it difficult for everyone to say: Reform? No, I can make the reform through the Disciplinary Commission and the Courts and so on, and civil service law is stronger than the reform. What we are discussing here is not the question of who is decent and who is indecent, but the question of whether civil service law can be used in such a way that, if one or more people want this and get public support, they can turn off any reform. Do we want this or don't we want it? It can't be decided by General Entacher. He has gone the right way, and that is his good right. Nor can the Minister of Defence decide, but we as legislators are the only ones who can decide. Does a minister have the opportunity to suffer from a legitimate loss of confidence in his or her senior officials? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Without the use of laptops!]] Can he or she suffer consequences without breaking a law? [[Abg. May. Stadler: And without using a laptop!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Or letter opener!]] We need to talk about this openly in the National Council. We need a change in civil service rights on these points, otherwise we cannot reform. Those who don't want to reform have it easy, they just don't have to do anything. Only those who want to reform have difficulties, and it's totally wretched what color they have. They will experience this again and again in a particular type of civil servants and in a particular type of conflict of interest. I am now saving myself everything at this point in the management of Mr Mag. Darabos as Minister of Defense would be said. I have only the personal impression that everything – from the federal army reform to the security strategy and the Eurofighters to the attempted abolition of the military obligation – is meant as well as bad. This is almost a rule of this ministry. These are all good considerations, basically there are a lot of good ideas, but worse can't be implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] The Minister did not want the wrong thing in many respects, but failed in an exemplary way. I also believe that, in his current constitution and with his current standing within the military state defense and the Federal Government and also towards the Austrian population, he has no longer the opportunity to enforce important reforms such as the abolition of military obligation against his current coalition partner. That is why it would be useful to replace him with a more suitable person – but certainly, with recognition of what he wanted and, in part, tried. But one thing I'm saying: I am absolutely against Mr Mag. Darabos goes alone. I am very much in favour of Mr. General Entacher as well as his position – as soon as possible – and of retiring in all honours, which he has earned in every respect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15245	The next speaker is Mr Deputies List. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15276	Madam President. High house! Mr. Darabos, your speech shows that you have no idea of the state of the force outside. My colleague, Mr Kunasek, has led you into many areas of untruth. Mr Cot, compliment, this is very courageous! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Of course, it is all too logical for you as a conscientious objector that you do not know yourself in the defence resort. Ladies and gentlemen, now to the urgent: General defeated Darabos, decommissioning was invalid – a situation assessment of the BZÖ in the case of Entacher. You, Mr Darabos, have become very blaming in this matter. Her attempt to kill an unloving subordinate, General Entacher, has obviously failed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In doing so, Mr Minister, you deliberately ignored the right to serve. The appeals commission at the Federal Chancellor's Office has really picked you up. The deposition notice commissioned by Darabos has been repealed. With this severe defeat, Darabos himself has committed the worst humiliation. [[Abg. Grosz: A shot in the ammunition chamber! Complete hit!]] Federal Minister! The only and logical consequence, namely your release from the government, is long overdue. Mr. Outflow Minister! A statement on your embarrassing and completely overlaid actions: They informed General Entacher in a seven-hour discussion of the reasons for his appointment. In public, he was disassembled by you with the indication of one-sided loss of trust. At the same time, you have blackmailed him that he has no qualifications for this highest military office in the state, and also literally: His friends, they're not mine. Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you certainly don't have any more comrades with the Federal Army. [[Abg. Grosz: Didn't have it!]] But the question remains, why did you even install him as Chief of Staff? Mr Retirement Minister, we think that was so because he comes from the red stable and has a red party book. The result of this embarrassing personnel measure alone proves that you, Mr Darabos, are not capable of leading your place of business. In the resort are chaotic states. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, Mr. Federal Minister, are accused of lack of management skills. Under your responsibility, the Federal Ministry of State Defense in the media is already called “Intrigantstadl”. This is a bad assessment in the public. You, Mr Darabos, have failed as Minister. You alone, Mr Minister, bear the responsibility for public assessment, and still you are desperately trying to find justification for your defeat against abductors. In doing so, you apply rules from the private sector and believe that a return to his old posts would have been impossible in the private sector. This cheap comparison alone shows that you are totally unthinkable in the private sector. There are other laws there. Every mana- ger of your format, who drives a business like the Austrian federal army with around 23 000 active employees and a budget of around 2.24 billion annually, is chased away with a wet squat. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The private sector has long since sent you to the desert as a responsible and your political management team, including your cabinet chief! That's how it looks, Minister of Self Defense! [[Call at SPÖ:But such employees are also sent to the desert!]] No operation needs a failed minister, who always hides behind the primacy of politics, just to preserve the red party interests. My dear comrades, you have a goal of abolishing the German army's willingness to work. Federal Minister! They are already classified as a high-security risk, and that is fatal. They have already created a safety-political vacuum in Austria as a decommissioning minister. This is grossly negligent and has to be stopped immediately. Federal Chancellor Faymann is finally supposed to drop you off. This would do you and all of Austria a great favor. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! It is already speculated anyway. Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, since you have already aired yourself with the Entacher case, your redundancies are imminent. They will be sacrificed to the new red-black standstill. Also the black speaker Slickovits, by the way a fellow countryman of yours, demands vehement's resignation. Burgenländer versus Burgenländer. [[Abg. Grosz: This is brutal: Burgenländer versus Burgenländer!]] There are serious attacks within the government parties, but in the case of mistrust, colleagues and spokespersons will not go along with Slickovits, which is logical. But there is another strategy: Switched to a black union ammunition, the ÖVP has now reinforced the fire on its enemy image in the government, the red soon ex-minister Darabos. As an additional heavy gun, the old/new Chief of General Entacher is put in place. Entacher, whether willing or not, has become dependent on the ÖVP. It is known that Trade Union Surgeon President Neugebauer has granted any assistance to the dispossessed general in the proceedings and told him: Mr. General, we're going to swing your vocation with our lawyers, not afraid! As you can see, the appeal was a success on all lines. This means that he is in the debt of the ÖGB. The general was celebrated as the pipe lid of Neugebauer and at the trade union congress as winner over Darabos frnetically. A general, who was given by Corporal Neugebauer to represent the ÖVP line, gives rise to a new situation with the Austrian army. Now, Entacher needs to make more advertising for maintaining compulsory military service. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Without serious situation assessment, ignorance and ignorance of what tasks a federal army of the future will have to deal with, you have created disastrous conditions in the resort! Mr Noch-Bundesminister Darabos, you are completely unorientated and equipped with lack of leadership. This shows particularly the pending case of Entacher. You are the only minister responsible for these misconceptions in the state defense. You don't have your place under control. In the department management, you failed. They are not suitable for the Austrian Federal Army as Minister. Federal Minister Darabos, the BZÖ is expressing your distrust. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Darabos, take your hat with the last spark of grace and clear the ministerial chair!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15404	Next, Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15425	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime, on the government bank! Federal Minister Darabos, once for all: Criticism of you personally and your work is not criticism of the Austrian Federal Army. I would like to make that very clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We don't talk bad about the Austrian federal army, but we're just worried about the state of the Austrian federal army. But I can now confront you with a few quotes: "Even in the current debate on general military service, the question arises: Why should we start from a course that has proved itself extremely well for a small neutral state like Austria for decades? The mixed system of professional soldiers, volunteers (...), militia and ground military workers works.” – First quote. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Who said that?]] Next quote: “Many professional armies in Europe have enormous problems with their application.” [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Who says that?]] Next quote: “Even the plans of the NATO Member State of Germany, which are often met by opponents of military duty, are no reason to shake our success model.” Next quote: “In Austria, on the other hand, we are entitled to: Every 18-year-old Austrian citizen is called up to military or civil service." [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Who are the quotes of?]] I can continue this, it's very interesting: “My task as Minister of Defense is to guarantee people protection and assistance through the Federal Army – 365 days a year. It would no longer be possible to comply with the constitutional requirements. Without basic defenses, at least 10,000 soldiers could no longer be provided for the disaster (...). Furthermore, compulsory military service is the necessary basis for the recruitment of professional soldiers." It goes further: “56 percent of Austrian soldiers abroad are put by the militia. ” [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Who are the quotes of?]] One more quote – I'll be ready, Mr. Donnerbauer: “The Federal Government is committed to a federal army building on the general military obligation, military and occupational components and to maintaining the reduced military service to six months.” Therefore, young citizens will continue to serve our society in the future – whether as recruits or as civil servants.” These are quotations from Federal Minister Mag. ==References====External links== ==References== [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: There is no such thing!]] Mr. Federal Minister! With these statements and your 180-degree turnaround, you are unbelievable and unbearable from our point of view! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was certainly another!]] Contrary to your recent statements, European states have massive problems with the abolition of compulsory military service. You know that, but you insist on a mistake, endangering the willingness to use – both in terms of defense and in terms of disaster. Well: What is it like in Europe and in the rest of the world? Let's start with the biggest armies in the world! Interestingly, in the United States, the first soldier to die in Iraq was a native Guatemalteke. There are massive applications from the US in South America because they no longer get people in their own country. From 2004 to 2007, the US had 64 percent more pre-punished in the army, and almost 40 percent are functional illiterates. In the UK, prisoners can go directly to the army. The average body mass index at the British Army – also quite interesting – is 32. At 30 you are already sickly obese. And I can tell you examples of other European armies, everywhere it looks similar. In Germany, for example, 3 077 soldiers were needed in March 2011 and 306 were recorded. So just 10 percent. I can only do one thing – yes, because they're all wrong. [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: Why 21 armies of 27...?]] The only ones who have correctly recognized this from our point of view are the Finns. The Finnish Minister for Defence has said quite clearly: A professional army with 50,000 men for Finland would cost four times as much as the military system. That is why what you are planning is impossible from our point of view. Federal Minister! I can only tell you one thing: Step back before your now grounded idea of a professional army causes even more damage to Austria's willingness to use! This country, our Republic of Austria, has earned a better defence minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15560	Mrs Mag. Lapp is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15610	Madam President. Appreciate members on the government bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the previous speech of the colleague of the liberals, you have received an impressive example of the hypocrisy of the Freedom Party. In 1997, you had in your party program, Mr. Cot, that there was a professional army and that Austria should join NATO. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Holy! ” - 300 €!]] In 2004, Mr Scheibner, then still with the Freemans, also spoke out in favour of Austria introducing a professional army and joining NATO. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] With regard to the people who report to the military service in Germany, Mr Podgorschek: That's 4,958. A wrong number you called. [[Abg. Podgorica: March 2011!]] And in 21 of 27 European countries there is already a professional professional army. We're in 21. In the 19th century, Mr President, and not in the time of eternity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This urgent question of the liberals is an example of this. Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer is now acting as a guarding brigade for the general who, under your time of government, was placed as a military officer at the back of the federal army's decision-making corner and there It had to be temporary. – Holy, dear colleagues from the Freedom Party! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Further order call!]] Shrewd is also the following: [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's all right!]] There are no councillors of Vienna to dictators in order to court dictators abroad, and then issue this as a peace mission in Austria. Thus, in July 2011 of the non-official city councillor Lasar, who is otherwise on the road on health issues, but at the time feels a peace mission and brought chocolate to a country that has been dominated by a dictator for several decades. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Were you with you in North Korea?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The decision of all the parties to the Federal Force Reform Commission has been made that the Austrian federal army should be organized in such a way that later developments, such as the suspension of the military obligation and the conversion to a volunteer army, are possible. ==References====External links== These are other challenges to be prepared in the century: We must start the fight against international terrorism and cyber-crime. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer is at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Mag. Darabos.]] I find it very interesting, Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer, that: You're kidding with the Minister here, but you used to say your mistrust. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] ==References== ==References====External links== It must ensure the defence of threats to strategic infrastructure, fight disasters and international deployments. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That we are on a good path and want to get much better is the main task. Professionalization, proper equipment, investment, the best training to strengthen performance are the top task for the Austrian federal army – with its minister at the forefront. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Put off your hypocrisy! [[Abg. Grosz: Fourth “hypocritical ”! Now we are at 1 200 €!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: At least €3,000!]] ==References== By the end of the century, we stand for our Minister and the Austrian Federal Army. We lead the Austrian federal army into the 21st century. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15768	Mrs Lapp, with regard to the use of the word ‘hypocritical’, I do not give you a call for order and I therefore fail to follow the in-depth desire of some of the gentlemen, above all of the BZÖ, to remove ‘hypocritical’ from the list. [[Abg. Grosz: Four times!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Congratulation and bravorage of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But she said it four times, not once!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15830	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! [[Abg. Silhavy: We are in Parliament, not in kindergarten, gentlemen!]] [[Abg. Grosz: We are careful to ensure that the dignity of the House is preserved!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Back to the subject. Of course, a very clear yes comes from the ÖVP to the Austrian federal army, thanks to all employees who work far beyond their service obligations every day for the security of this country. No question, we're behind it. And we really thank you now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, Mr Federal Minister, it is also about cooperation on the security issue in this country. But today's discussion and situation is not surprising either. That's what we need to see. This is the result of a longer development. Mr Darabos, you were appointed to this office at the time, and that was not really a wish concert, as we all know each other. In various appearances that you have apologised for not listening to the Federal Army until now, and so on, we have also noticed that you do not feel quite well on this question. And this – and I must say so – has been partly in some lustless or perhaps even disinterested work for the Austrian federal army. And the summit of this development is now the Causa General Entacher, where you – and we have now confirmed this – have acted arbitrarily where you have violated the principles of the rule of law. This was also confirmed to you by this Board of Appeal of the Federal Chancellery. This all triggered the question: Obligation – yes or no? And what did General Entacher actually do in this matter? – He has only made known from his professional point of view that, from his calculations and from his experience, a professional army is the more expensive variant and also the one with the higher risks. The obligation of military service is a subject, Mr Federal Minister, in which you yourself – and I say, unfortunately – have fallen by like a piece of wood. And there have already been some quotations mentioned today: “In my office, there will be no development of the federal army into a professional force. The obligation of military service shall not be agitated.’ Further: “For me, the obligation of military service is ground in stone.” In addition: Minister is committed to military service in the Soldier Guide of this year, 2011. “It is thus a guarantee of the security and stability of Austria.” And you could quote more. From all these confessions, Mr. Federal Minister, you have made a swing when mayor Häupl – we know – needed a new hanger a few days before the Vienna election. And what's left behind? – A standstill in questions of security policy, a complete uncertainty as to the structures of the Austrian federal army, and a de-motivated and dissociated workforce of officers, officers and members of the Austrian federal army. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck]] And these members of the Austrian federal army are not discouraged because, as some say, they see their skins floating away, but because they notice that in some matters nothing simply goes on, that their professional opinions are not heard or not taken seriously. [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: Exactly!]] Here's my question: Mr. Federal Minister, who are you listening to when the officers, the personnel representatives, the officers' company, the Milizverband and even the chief commander of the Austrian federal army, Federal President Dr. Heinz Fischer, express their own concerns? You just listen to the Löwelstraße? Are you listening to the mayor of Vienna? Or maybe the calls from some newspapers? [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: There are more experts!]] They have put themselves quite firmly and clearly in favour of the government programme. They have been looking for new tasks on this issue. I'll say it in advance: We of the ÖVP will not agree to the request for distrust, but I think you have heard the content that we have given you today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “surprising”!]] And I am therefore looking forward to a successful and constructive cooperation in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15967	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15988	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If the leadership of a ministry is called into question, we as a Member of the National Council have to think about how to argue, how to agree on whatever motives there are and, above all, whatever foundations there are. Especially the Ministry of State Defense – we know and experience this again and again in this House – is very often in criticism, in very difficult criticism. On the one hand, and we hear this over and over again, it is about the fact that too few financial resources flow into the federal army. On the other hand, the criticism is that too many financial resources flow into the Austrian federal army. And there is, of course, a difficult task – you have to say that – for a minister to find the balance here. It is, of course, also difficult for a Minister of Defense to enter this heritage, which was created by the past, by the other political groups, by the occupation of the Ministry of Defence. No doubt! But it is also difficult, ladies and gentlemen, that there should be a way of reform, which is extremely sluggishly formulated here. A boisterous path, a dirty goal without backbone – that is the much more serious point in this whole debate. It is not understandable why this dirty path should be implemented. It is not understandable for the High House and especially for the employees of the Ministry of Defence, for the soldiers and soldiers, where this German army goes. And I would like to give you some examples. First example: Women with the federal government. Women have been active in all functions and arms holes since 1998. There is currently a female share of 2 per cent, 372 female soldiers are in the Austrian Federal Army. [[Abg. Keck: That's not the Minister's fault, is it?- Oh, my God!]] The defence resort is miles away from the equality of women and men. Miles away! And this is the fault of a minister who cannot force equality despite federal constitutional anchorage. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Try more women! A little more effort!]] There is gender budgeting, that's nothing new, and the leadership can increase the proportion of women, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Darabos has also publicly announced to the public, including in committee meetings, that he will try to increase the proportion of women; he will try everything. But nothing happens, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing just happens! The leadership does not increase the proportion of women. On the contrary! The proportion of women in the drop-out rate in education has increased in recent years. Second example: Foreign operations. Every time Minister Darabos talks about the duties of the Ministry and also about his own duties, he talks about foreign operations and how important these are as an international hanging sign, EU cooperation partner, UN cooperation partner. And the efforts are, of course, very diverse and very positive, just - and we have repeatedly mentioned this - in the civil military field from building up schools to providing humanitarian support. But the history of Austria, especially at the time of the Nazi regime, requires soldiers to deal correctly with the history of Austria. It can't be that it's already come out again and it's already confirmed reports that an Austrian soldier in Syria bought a hook-cross flag and also presented it to the public. It can't be for the Austrian federal army! It cannot be that soldiers welcome themselves with Hitler's greeting in Kosovo, in former Yugoslavia. And neither can it be that soldiers have relevant tattoos and then be sent abroad. All of this is the responsibility of the Minister. And he must not only take a position on this, but also set out clear measures that bring the Austrian federal army out of this right-wing corner. Right-wing radicality and right-wing extremism simply have nothing to look for in the Austrian federal army. The third thing: It looks like violence against women. In the summer it became known that the Austrian army had to repay an advertisement against a military soldier, against his own soldiers who had been stationed there since 2009, because he was accused of rape, sexual necessity, and exploitation of an authority relationship. An Austrian soldier is said to have raped a woman, which is why the Austrian federal army has also shown. Every soldier and soldier represents Austria abroad, and it is the responsibility of the Minister to look closely at that. [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: I did that!]] [[Abg. Haberzettl: This is a fairy tale hour!]] [[Abg. Prehauser: You shouldn't be unjust!]] This leadership is no longer viable, and no corresponding measures have yet been taken. [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: Who abolished “Ulrichsberg ”?]] The abolition of general military service – currently very debated here again, in which public perception is rather shut down. The extent of variation, the abolition of compulsory military service, or the abolition of such an obligation, is very different in public opinion, it is a gratification, apparently also depending on the medium that these opinion polls bring. We are convinced that the abolition of general military service is not only possible but also necessary for the future of Austrian young men. It is possible for Austria to do so without obligation, we are convinced. It is also possible to restructure civil service in such a way that it is converted into a voluntary civil service. This money, this € 140 million, which the civil service now costs, would then just flow into a different system. This is all possible, but it needs clear decision-making. I have to tell you what I want, and that's what's missing right now. This is also seen at the Security Doctor: big announced, small disappeared in the drawer. The old security doctor hears reformed, no question, the strategy needs a new wind, needs a new paint, but it is currently disappeared in the drawer. What's going on with the security doctor? Nobody knows. Is there any further debate in the Committee? Nobody knows. Will someone sit down and discuss it again? Nobody knows. This is a boisterous path that's going here. As Wiener Neustadter I know the structures of the German army, and of course I encounter in everyday life also again and again senior officers, and the one-bright opinion of those with whom I have spoken, in order to say this also here, is that it is not about the political orientation of the defence ministers if he stood to do so if he wanted to go a way that has a clearly formulated goal in mind. Then probably the officers, the soldiers and soldiers would be more on the side of the Minister of Defence. That is how I am doing, quite honestly, because there is no way here, there is no political sense of will where it really should go. I believe in the chance of reform, but only a reform with backbone.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16096	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16117	Madam President. High house! I was always of the opinion that one should never make a pyroman a fire brigade commander, and I have always formally expressed the opinion that it has been wrong to make the civil service repudiator Darabos the Minister of Defense, to make a military objector as Minister of State Defense, Mrs Lapp, to express it correctly. [[Abg. May. Muttons: A civil servant is not an objector!]] [[Abg. Keck: He's not a civil service objector!]] I hope it came to you. In principle, we are right in the facts. If you read through the Federal Financial Framework 2012 then you will find that there is inside: The operation of the German army is only possible more limited in the foreseeable future. – So, in truth, a declaration of bankruptcy by the Minister responsible for it, Mrs Lapp von der SPÖ. However, there is also a clear list of the procurement, deployment and exercise projects, which is of course in all the other parliaments of the world, so that the parliamentarians know what is the case with the federal army. We don't have that either. The budget is down if you calculate the sport or even the salary increases. – Actually, a rejection to the German army, knowing that the percentage of GDP you should strive for internationally is far from met. Now for the operative. How does the procurement look? There is not much for new equipment, which is urgently needed, actually nothing at all. Mr Minister, you have listed a number of things that are being purchased. That's good, but that's just the most necessary thing you need. There are many other areas where there is a need to catch up, for example in modern radio devices. Imagine that the three task groups of the hunting command cannot even be equipped with headsets! That is, I think, unique in the whole world, that you don't even equip the Federal Army's elite force with the most necessary device. What about the follow-up of SAAB 105? Everything's open there, too. What about the car, the protected all-purpose vehicles? The call for tender has been withdrawn, although the equipment is urgently needed. The funding by 2015 is in the stars, but not in the budget. What about the wheel tanks? They will also be discussed, but they will not be purchased. And vice versa: There's nothing going on where you could get money to finance the most necessary. Think of the M109 tanks we have for the satisfaction that we will no longer need to do to this extent! Or think of the Leopard 2 too! The question is whether it will still be available for sale in the foreseeable future. Then we sit on an old device that nobody wants anymore. There the Swiss were much more skilled than we were. Why is that so? – Because there is no concept in the government when it comes to the question of national defence. First of all, we have to answer the tasks, the strategies clearly defined and the structure derived from the strategy, and then we have to answer the question of compulsory military service yes or no. But not the other way round, because it is just populist for you to do away with the obligation to do so, with the Minister saying two or three months before, that this one is “meshed in stone”! This was obviously not even sandstone in which he had measled this obligation. That is why I say to you: This minister is entirely on the way to wood as far as credible national defence is concerned, and therefore he is also ready for withdrawal. And if he does not resign, we will ask him to do so. So you see that there are some things in the arrogance – and then the Causa ducks are added. The Causa Entacher has already been very intensively discussed, but it is very multi-layered. Apart from that, I do not know where the headquarter of the German army is: at a renowned Austrian daily newspaper or at the Minister or at the President of the Federal Government? Is the day-time news the orders or the Minister? This question must be asked once if, on call, officials in that country can be “disposing” politically if they no longer fit in. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We already believe that politics, the Sovereign, the National Council, is still presuming what has to be done, and not the official. But a good official has to advise, he has to show advantages and show disadvantages – and the minister and policy have to make the decisions. This, Mr Pilz, can already be done with the right of service currently in force, to give instructions, so and so it has to be done. This is already possible, but there are certainly still suitable possibilities. Mr Minister, as a military officer, I give you advice: If you want to fire off an official politically again, think of it, think of a strategy to end, because you already have to consider if you shoot off a red or the SPÖ, that then the ÖVP union, in the person of Mr Neugebauer, of course has fun representing it in order to make it a political theatre – to the damage of the country and to the damage of the federal army in that country. I am therefore excited whether it is really true that there will be no “Lex Entacher”. I am eager to see whether Mr Entacher's task will be reduced. I am also excited to see what is going to happen with my colleague, Mr Liste, who has very bravely presented some things today. But I hope you have a good position, you won't be personally concerned. On the question of compulsory military service. I was very surprised about the FPÖ. The FPÖ is now a little more here again, it was hardly represented during the debate, where it is its request. But one thing is interesting: that you take a lulling hour here, where you have previously mistrusted the Minister. Mr Fichtenbauer, I don't understand! Either there is a distrust, but then you can't go here and have fun here, then you have to stand and go through it, colleagues from the FPÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You talk about FPÖ here in the morning for the youth and in the afternoon against the youth by maintaining the military duty to continue to force 60, yes, 70 percent of young people to serve the federal army, which then lacks income, which often have to take up loans that de facto hardly benefit for life from the system maintenance function they have exercised. In the matter, the Minister has been right, just as he does, has been completely wrong. You are really on the way to the wood, but the FPÖ prefers to represent the concepts of the past and not the concepts of the future, because they are at the BZÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we clearly say to the BZÖ: There is only a new model of military service, i.e. a strong professional force, supplemented by a voluntary mill, provided with appropriate incentives. This is the future, as many countries in Europe and the world are already proposing. Everything else is betrayal of youth, betrayal in the country and does not create a modern, slender army equipped with clear tasks. Mr Minister, I have tried to work out some accusations: You have failed in the budget question. They have failed to ensure a proper, sustainable structure of the Austrian army. They have failed to implement the issue of compulsory military service. And you have failed to deal properly with the officials in this country. Therefore, the request for distrust against you is justified and supportive.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16217	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16239	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Widmann, this has now been an inappropriate attempt to link the obligation of military service with the youth issue on the part of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was inappropriable and speaks for itself. But back to the subject. After the debate here is about to come to an end, allow me a brief interim report: What have we experienced here so far? We have experienced a Minister of Defence who has answered the questions in our urgent question more than half-heartedly. We have experienced a Minister of Defense who, as Mr Kunasek has very impressively pointed out here, has been persuaded that he does not take it so precisely with the truth. We have experienced a Minister of Defense who has explained in his statement that he is willing to take up reforms in the Austrian Federal Army, but who obviously only pursue one purpose: to destroy everything that is still present here, from the personnel structures to structural facilities. We have experienced a Minister of Defence who belongs to a group whose interlocutors have erred here, just in order not to have to address the matter so precisely. We have experienced a Minister of Defence who has a coalition partner whose spokesperson here has called for the resignation of the Minister. So if you allow me an interim balance here, I can only say: If there is a name for political incompetence, then this defense minister is Norbert Darabos. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Minister of Defence, you have not only a matter of fact, you have also completely failed politically. Not only that you have obviously lost entirely the relation to your place of business, you have apparently also lost the confidence of the army, as the president of the Officers' Society has just recently carried out. And it's also baffling if you take on board how you present your office as Minister of Defense to the public. Astoundingly and at the same time frightening, the highlight was probably the decommissioning of the Chief of General Staff of Entacher – completely without a legal basis, boldly prepared and absolutely unlawful. A case of political dilettantism! Even if you can't have yourself politically in your own place of business, As a minister, she adheres to the legal provisions to comply with the law of the service. This applies to you as a minister as well as to any other staff in the department. The methods of démocratisation you have used here are absolutely worrying and at best still in North Korea, but certainly not in a European country with a standard of democracy, as we are used to. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Although I assume that today's vote of distrust will not find the desirable majority out of coalition discipline, I hope, Minister of Defence, that you will take your path to political neuvana as soon as possible. I wish our federal army a new Minister of Defense, who is behind the servants of the Austrian Federal Army, who are truly making a responsible and excellent job, not only in the use of disasters, but also in the other interests of the Federal Army. And I would also like to see a Minister of Defence standing for the legal and constitutional obligation to do so, just as the Republic and the staff of the Austrian Federal Army can expect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16327	Mr Stauber. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16348	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! An old proverb says: In life, everything has two sides. – Now this has been re-examination by my colleague Herbert. He has shown his side and his summary of the discussion, and he wishes himself a new, a super defense minister. I can tell you, we represent the other side. We want our Minister of Defense to be preserved for a long time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think – Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill said this earlier – that Mr Darabos must certainly be one of the most difficult parts of the government. It is certainly not easy, but it is the task of the federal army to undergo reform. All over Europe, security standards and starting points have changed, so that a new federal army or new tasks are discussed throughout Europe. And nothing else does our Minister of State. Federal Minister Darabos has done this task, and he has already proved it, because of the 118 recommendations of the Federal Army Reform Commission he has already fully or at least partially implemented 106. This has not been a small thing, but it was a great achievement, and he is also doing the other points. But of course he needs the support of all of us. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In implementing all these points, one thing is very important: trust. And that's when I say that a head of a department must be able to rely on and rely on his closest employees. That's where I bring the example of myself as mayor: My head of office must also be loyal to me, and I must be able to trust him that he properly implements what we have decided in the council or I, as mayor, order him on behalf of the councillor with his employees. In the same way, it is in the country's defence department, and I think it was very important that, after Mr. Federal Minister's trust was lost to him, he acted accordingly. The urgent question of the FPÖ also states that Mr General Entacher is certified an impeccable officer career. That was also the reason why Minister Darabos appointed him the Chief Chief of the General Staff. It is not for party political reasons, Mr Pilz, but because he was and is still a flawless military. I think that the two gentlemen, Mr. General Entacher and Mr. Minister, will meet together and will find a form of cooperation, at least for the next few months. [[Abg. Markowitz: months? Why months?]] There have been many withdrawal requests today, from all possible sides, but I believe that Commissioner Slickovits from the ÖVP Group should consider whether some withdrawal requests had not been made to the then Minister during the period from 2000 to 2007. At the time, the government had decided to exceed the Rubikon and itself to declare neutrality obsolet, and it also favored NATO accession. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hagen, Mr Grosz and Mr Petzner.]] This would have been a reason for resignation because it would have been a breach of the Constitution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: The Rubikon is not the Drau! I'm just saying it! Rubikon's somewhere else!]] – Yes, you steirer probably don’t know where the Drau is, but somewhere in Slovenia we’re already coming together. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Petzner]] You're right. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grosz: What happened at Rubikon?]] I believe that the Federal Minister needs our support in implementing his reform proposals. Let's trust him! We'll give it to him from the SPÖ. We're behind you, Minister! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grosz and Mr Petzner.]] I think we stand with a clear yes to neutrality, clearly say no to NATO accession, and we stand for an intense factual discussion within the meaning of the German army for a good future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16450	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16485	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! You don't make it easy for us today. [[Abg. Markowitz: That's why you have the black tie! Now I understand!]] – No, I wear the black tie because my mother died. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If a Federal Minister in a television interview states that he sees no reason to apologise as the editor points out to him that his decision was unlawful to the appointment of Mr Entacher, then I would say that deserved more humility. [[Abg. Petzner: Have you found...?]] It's easy to say: No, I'm not apologizing! From my point of view, there's too little humility in front of the office, in front of the rule of law. Article 18 of the B-VG clearly states that the entire government must be governed only by the laws. Federal Minister! It is therefore good that there is this law and that Mr. General Entacher was able to complain. It is therefore good that this Commission was also able to decide independently of direction. This Commission, which was presented by you in this interview as a ‘only’ Commission, under quotation marks, is to be defended. [[Call the FPÖ: Is a madman!]] [[Abg. List:... ÖVP Commission! ÖVP Commission!]] This Commission is exempt by constitutional law, this Commission is led by an administrative judge from the Administrative Court and consists of two other officials, one from the service provider's side and one from the employee's side. Ladies and gentlemen! Who, then, makes the decisions in that state? – They're always officials. Every judge is an official. If you are going to challenge decisions taken by officials in this rule of law, you will call into question the entire rule of law, and you cannot expect our support! [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr. Dr. Graf and Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. List:... Commission!]] In this interview, Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you also stated that your decision was legitimate from your point of view. I had to look into the Duden, which is under “legitim”. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] There are two expressions under “legitim”. [[Call the BZÖ: You need a dude to do that?]] The first is: It complies with the law, allowed, approved, legal – and the Commission has found that it is not, so it is not legitimate to do so. It is only legitimate in the other sense of the word, namely if you think that it would be understandable. – Yes, from your point of view the attitude may be understandable. In any case, the decision was not legal, and that is the crucial point. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does...?]] If you refer to other points – including other ministers – and to party politics, I must tell you there the respective ministers had no responsibility to answer a decision by the Appeal Commission. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] They only have to answer you, Minister of State. [[Call to the BZÖ:A mandater...!]] Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you have repeatedly mentioned the primacy of politics in this interview. [[Abg. Grosz: Not to be confused with...!]] It is appropriate to deal with this again. “The primacy of politics” was used for the first time under Metternich, and I do not think that you really wanted to defend the policy of absoluteist ruling Metternich. I think you basically wanted to say: The politics – or the decision-making situation – in the Austrian federal army has not to be determined by the military, but by the democratically elected representatives of the people. Head of Unit are responsible to Parliament and thus to the laws adopted here in Parliament. Mr Darabos! I think that this is particularly important in a clear management – in a management that needs to be carried out in accordance with the law, because the state defence is a particularly important place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's the decisive thing. I think there are a lot of people here who do not want to make the Austrian federal army bad, as you, Mr Federal Minister, have suspected in your speech. On the contrary: It is the concern of the Austrian federal army, which commands us to look even more clearly, even more clearly, at your place of residence – in the interests of the Austrian federal army, for the Austrian state defense and for the Austrian soldiers, for the benefit of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16686	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16708	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Today's debate may well be called something unique. It is unique that a notice has been withdrawn by a non-cooperational commission led by the Minister. This notice has been made by a prime official of the Ministry who had been put into this office by this Minister. Now Federal Minister Darabos had the opportunity to explain his view of things. He has done this very widely. Federal Minister! If you believe that you have only one conviction that you are a minister to which sensible reforms are a concern, I will tell you: I wouldn't suspect that. There are people in the SPÖ series who say... – That's what even the interlocutor says; he didn't once take the name of a child in his contribution to the debate – so I didn't recognize a back-strengthening for the minister here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was significant!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. List.]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Federal Minister, you have listed some of the things you think they would even deserve the term ‘administrative reform’, ‘positive approach’. You say you brought 400 officials from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Finance, 200 to the Federal Ministry of the Interior. – An administrative reform is not present. [[Call the BZÖ: Sure not!]] That was the escape of your own civil service, which under your leadership no longer recognizes any perspective. They fled. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you really take the administrative reform seriously, you have it quite easy: The Court of Auditors report lists everything in detail. We call for this from meeting to meeting. Only and alone: They haven't brought any results to this day. Federal Minister! If you say from 1 200 in the central station you have reduced to 900 places, then I say: Hopefully these 300 people didn't get information like the top military abductor. I hope they have received at least legal notice. But they certainly see us as a partner for meaningful debureaucratisation, for meaningful administrative reform, so that the number is pressed further down there. Mr Federal Minister, you have raised an important area, from my point of view, namely the question of loyalty which a minister can expect. Unfortunately, in the past, we have seen God again and again how to deal with officials when they do not speak to the Minister in the mouth. You have done anything but a good service by simply saying that he is always against what you want – and you ask yourself the question of what you want at all, because the trigger was the debate about compulsory military service. I can remember: ==References== On 1 October 2010, the Minister announced that the military obligation was "meshed in stone". Entacher and Co said: Yes, this is our Minister; we will represent his opinion! However, two days later – Löwelstraße, bad survey values among the young voters – top candidate Häupl says in the association with the “Krone”: Now we are starting a debate and saying that we are leaving with the obligation to do so. What did the Federal Minister make of full conviction? - What he did on the 2nd. In October, three days later, nothing was counted; there was immediately the other debate. Mr Minister, you must not be surprised if your top officials do not come along with the rapid pace – yes, you do not want to come along. I therefore have a great deal of respect for officials who still have the courage to express an opinion diametrically vis-à-vis those representing the Minister. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] However, you have raised a question which is essential to me regarding professional civil servants, and I believe that this should be the reason for thinking about occupying senior officials only for legislative periods in the future. I really think that's a questionable thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] However, I say immediately that better safeguard clauses and financial suspensions must be introduced in the law of employment and remuneration. It is also possible to imagine a parliamentary hearing law such as in the United States, where officials must apply first and then be able to appear before the committee at any time in order to give their opinion – not only filtered by the Minister. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think that is a really serious problem. We know the way in which ÖVP ministers, in particular, have been working here. We now have the case of Darabos and Entacher. I think it's time to rethink throughout the public service. It would be wise if we put a clear sign here at the top officials. The system question is therefore an essential, as I believe, which remains after this debate. The de-olidarization that we note is clearly due to the leadership of the Ministry of Defence. Federal Minister of State Defense! I think at a quiet hour it would be appropriate for you to think for yourself about what is happening to the Republic of Austria, to the defence department, but – in these surveys! – maybe even for your party would be the smartest. Perhaps you'll find a job in the state government of Burgenland or a regroup. Free this Ministry of Defense! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you have told us today something that encourages me to support this mistrust request. You've announced not to get hurt on your way. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not a good way. This is a bad way, and we will therefore support the vote of distrust.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16814	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16836	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Mr Federal Minister, let me briefly address your speech, your answer to our questions. There's something wrong with you. We liberals are not of the opinion that the Austrian federal army is working badly, but you as Minister of Defense. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Under the circumstances of your government, the Austrian Federal Army is even very, very good as a Minister of Defense. I would also like to thank the cadre staff and the recruits very much. Mr Federal Minister, there are two options: Either you do not visit barracks – which I do not believe – or you visit barracks with closed eyes and not like me as a staff representative. I always look at the attack boards, the information panels in the barracks. If you look at them, it would probably be disillusioning and frightening for you to consider what your coalition partner – that is, the Christian Trade Unionists’ Group – and your group, the FSG, thinks of you. They don't even think they're in the barracks anymore, they don't want to defend you at all. That's why it's justifiable that your parliamentary group is still defending you here, but the red staff representation has long since been approved by you as the Federal Minister for Defence of the State. I think that speaks volumes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now you're laughing, Minister of State. You sit there for a while, as if you had already resigned, but I don't think the issue is so funny that you should be sitting on the government bank right here. I would just like to mention a few more facts. They have already been mentioned several times. 2. July 2010, website of your ministry: Darabos clearly for military service. On the same day: Obligation is “meshed in stone, ” and, and, and. Just before the Vienna Landtagswahl, in view of the survey values – we have already heard this today – you have carried out a swivel around 180 degrees. Mr Federal Minister, please apologise for this expression, but that is not at all in your place of residence, that is almost a bit of a cowardice, as you unfortunately do in God's way, because the task of defending the state – as you know for sure as the Federal Minister for Defence – is the protection of constitutional institutions and the democratic freedoms of the inhabitants and the maintenance of security. Mr. Federal Minister, the security of the population was sold by SPÖ and by you for election tactics. That's scandalous, and that's kind of a shame. You actually have to say that so drasticly. For you, not only should the evil opposition be a warning sign, as you make it very easy. You know exactly who has already approved of you: Milizverband, Officers' Society, Media and Population, Opposition, Coalition Partners, Parts of Your Party, Your Staff Office have already turned your back on you and, in fact, only view the Federal Minister Darabos as a burden. Minister Darabos, it would be high time to go.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16909	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e16938	Some remarks still have to be made, because what democratic understanding is that discussion and distrust are only a short way forward if there is a discussion and a minister expresses his opinion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer]] I can't quite understand why one concludes that there has to be a resignation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] The second point that seems to me to be important: There were two legal opinions – of course – that the independent Commission had a different legal opinion. The Minister has always said that he respects this, but because of the fact that the Minister has expressed a legal opinion to draw the conclusion and to say that it is immense, since a mistrust request must be made, I cannot quite understand it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] When we talk about withdrawals: If a general in the old Austrian army had a different opinion than the leadership opinion, the General said goodbye. There has not been a meeting in front of an independent Commission or elsewhere. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grosz and Mr Scheibner.]] – I respect Austrian laws, of course. The general spoke publicly and said that he could not agree with a reform project of the Minister. The logic in the former army would have been that he says it must now do another; I can't carry it anymore. That's how it was then. [[Abg. Head: Dangerous argumentation!]] - No, no, not dangerous. I'm talking about the old army. [[Abg. Grosz: A very dangerous comparison!]] We are discussing the question of whether a general is publicly opposed to the policy of the Minister's position and whether this is a restriction on democratic freedom of expression. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] So what ideas of a state organization do you actually have regarding – for example – the army? [[Abg. Amon: State of law!]] When I finally think what you're saying, that's what the army is choosing the minister himself, or the soldiers meet and choose their officers themselves. We had that in 1918, 1919. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, – That was exactly the line back then. I don't understand. It must still be legitimate if one is to produce today and say that one has a reform project, that one wants to think about a professional army, not only a volunteer army, like the majority of all the member countries of the European Union, but also to try to implement it – for example, by thinking about these pilot projects within the framework of the possibility, within the framework of the rules that are now given in this ministry. [[Abg. Strache: But there is no political mandate to do so! There is no parliamentary mandate!]] Honestly, if I am against doing projects on reform of the army organization in principle, then the discussion should have used earlier. [[Abg. Strache: There is no parliamentary mandate to do so!]] Since above, German Chancellor Schüssel stood in his government statement in 2000 and has already laid the rails here for a development, for a reform debate in the Reform Commission under the chairmanship of Helmut Zilk in the direction of the professional army. [[pointing to the Intergovernmental Bank]] There he was sitting, the then Federal Chancellor. [[Re-pointing to the government bank]] The blues were then in the government, later the oranges, always held the Ministry of Defence and worked diligently in this Commission, where it was still literally stated that it was “to shape the division of the German army in 2010 in such a way that later developments, such as the suspension of the military obligation and the conversion to a volunteer army, are possible”. [[Abg. Strache: Possible, yes, but not compelling!]] Yeah, but nobody said, Mr Scheibner or Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel – or whoever was responsible at the time – you are withdrawing, this is not in accordance with the Austrian Constitution, we have the general obligation to do so! - I didn't hear that. Now suddenly, because it somehow doesn't fit you into the concept, the whole thing is pulled out of the drawer. It is, therefore, a rather unfair debate that is being held there, and it is also an indirect discussion, a sham discussion. You're not really about abductors. You're not talking about Entacher, you're talking about the question of professional army – yes or no, volunteer army – yes or no. This is the crucial question, but it can be discussed, just as one can discuss the concepts relating to the replacement of civil service, where there have been proposals. [[Abg. Bucher: But he's messing up everything!]] But what is the final development of what you say? Where is that to end?, I wonder. Where's the end of this? I am quite surprised at what has been partially brought into the individual discussions. To be honest, I don't quite understand it either when you say that I only agree more about coalition. I also did not fully understand the explanatory statement by Mr Maizovits, why he is so keen on why he says: only from the reason for coalition. You can make yourself and say: Okay, Mr. Minister has the idea A, we have the idea B. Some in the ÖVP Parliamentary Group, who did their work here at the time, under the bowl, were already of the opinion that one should make a professional, and others have a different opinion. But there must be a discussion about it! This is an essential institution for the State to deal with. You can't just talk that down as if that were any side question. When I heard the various contributions to the debate today, the way in which the Minister is being dealt with, the choice of words, I thought, there is an attitude which I cannot accept. I think you should declare yourself openly and say: The FPÖ wants this kind of army organization, the BZÖ of those who, and then we will debate it peacefully, get on with the proposals made by Minister Darabos. In particular, respect for service law and for laws: If someone is a minister and he has head of responsibility there, then trust is the basis, loyalty and competence, and in the end team spirit is needed to really do all of this. That's how I understand: That ministries, departments, countries organize, and not that the Minister makes a proposal, and his most important, senior employee says in an interview in a magazine: Well, that's not how it is! – That is unimaginable! Where is there such a thing? It would be necessary to discuss why this is possible and why this call has not taken place at this time. [[Abg. Strache: He was a constitutional official!]] What has then been – okay, there can be different opinions. There were two legal opinions, and it was finally decided that way. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They collected signatures from us, but they didn't skinn out!]] But this is far from justifying the tone of the debate with the Minister. And in my opinion, in my political opinion, it does not justify for a long-term reform of the military – one that does not think of one day to the other – being a mistrustful request against a minister who has the courage to cross taboo borders. What have we experienced in the past?- Oh, my God! – tank purchases that no man needed, tanks that are now somewhere in the area, the Eurofighters, where we have stood x-time and said: For airspace surveillance, we need these sayers, billion-dollar Eurofighters, with a contract that nobody could have left? This would have to be discussed today, not as someone said here, although the Minister has saved a lot, but that is like buying a Mercedes where a few brakes are missing – or whatever that was formulated. [[Abg. Street: The Draken-Marizzi story!]] Mr Fichtenbauer, you know that I have total respect for many of your comments. But why didn't you admit that this type of contract with Eurofighter no longer allowed you to find out that this was actually a flawed contract – especially for you as a lawyer that would have been an interesting topic – so that you don't have any alternative to it and so that you continue to take the aerial photos with these expensive fighters? We can discuss what has actually been the concept of Eurofighter being purchased. What was the thought? - Not just airspace surveillance! This would be a serious discussion that this army deserved, because there are hardworking people at work, because they are working there, and because these people also have a right to respect and recognition. I think we should try to get back together, to get back together on this issue, to change the tone towards the Minister and to lead constructive debates – and not to make this a cheap game and change party-political change on the back of all those who work in the German army and want to do their best for the Republic. I would like to remind you of this, and I would stand for this new style of discussion. Perhaps Mr Grosz is talking about me – he is the best guarantee that the style of discussion will really be observed.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17144	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17167	Mr Klubobmann Cap, I am very excited because we have all become witnesses to a historical situation: that after 50 years in Parliament you are completely unscrupulous here for the first time. But I would like to help you with the jumps, including your perceptibility to the jumps, why it is so necessary to file a motion of censure against this Minister, but why it is also necessary to select him from office. That's why we are: It is not for the sake of the purely application, but for the purpose of finally restoring legislation in the country defence area of that Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! If I let the current debate take place briefly – two and a half hours it took – I noticed a lot already, and it was also a lot of defamatory and embarrassing. Mr. Fichtenbauer, it can't be that you take all the courage together and go out to the pult, criticize the Minister – and ten minutes later, after the cameras have swung away, go to the government bank in a custodian with the Minister, according to the motto: Yeah, I was just kidding at you, but I didn't mean it that way anyway. If you give me the Kaiser-Franz-Joseph order for it, we'll be good again. That is not the way to make military policy in this country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kurt Listvom BZÖ has today mentioned the reasons for the legitimate mistrust here, as has Mr Kunasek of the FPÖ, namely that the mistrust is justified, since he has been in office, and has shown several times that he does not lead the place. He does not like the resort, he has no personal emotion, no sense of the state defense, he does not carry it himself, but he leads the ÖBB-Oberwachtmeister and Cabinet head Kammerhofer. This is actually the true minister, who stands ten meters away from the government bank, but should actually sit here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is also the so-called minister who has been giving oral instructions in this place for three years, but is not responsible to Parliament here. This is the reality of the ministry: Not the minister creates, but his cabinet chief, ÖBB-Oberwachtmeister Kammerhofer. Let's talk openly about how this is going to happen there. Second: The minister doesn't want to lead the ministry, he can't lead it – fixed to three examples. Eurofighter debate: Once more, the powerful Don Quichote pulls off and comes back as “Peace with the empty bag” from the battlefield. He pulls out, takes all the courage together, tries to hang up the Eurofighter deal and reduce the costs. And what does he come home with? – It has caused extra costs. The first insanity of this minister! We are experiencing the second insanity in the right and objective debate on military duty. It cannot be said that the German army is the employment therapy for the deficits in the family environment, which the German army then has to deal with as part of the military obligation. That is why I really do not consider military duty to be pointless, because it does not bring any more, nor does it actually bring nothing more. What war do we want to win with six months of trained recruits in the country? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We don't want to win war at all!]] There you can't even stand against the Swiss Guard, because they will also lose when they fight against the Vatican at football. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is to say, this important and objective discussion about the military obligation was not possible by this Minister because he failed in the area and finally made this discussion bitterly slip. Let's be honest: He failed in the area! And the third area, the crown, so to speak: Entacher and the emotional departure between the breakfast shop and the office-course: But now I'm finally full of the lodger, now I'm throwing him out!, then I'm going to get into conflict with the civil service law and have to stop him in a small way after a year. Mr. Minister! The mistrust that the Freedom Party today brings is also an expression of the compassion we have with you: Minister Darabos, we want to save you from this load – and we want to redeem the Austrian Federal Army from you! But we want to save you, Mr Darabos, from a false occupation that your old German chancellor Gusenbauer incubated you. You, Mr Darabos, did not want this ministry anyway; They never wanted to become defense ministers. And this is the expression of what you do to the ministry: They signal the Austrian soldiers nothing but that you don't think anything about them. And the worst thing that can happen to a politician, especially a government politician, is the lack of respect that your own team brings to you. Let's be honest: The members of your resort no longer have any respect for you, Minister Darabos, and they treat you disdainfully. Behind the hand it says: What do you want with this civil servant with us; he is to be used for nothing! – Nothing against civilians, but, Minister: You are no longer perceived as a leader in your own department, and you are no longer perceived as the leading organ of a ministry in the population. Therefore, it requires the propensity, but also your own highest personal redemption, that you, Minister Darabos, suffer the consequences. This theatre, which happens from month to month in this resort – and that for three years – is not a government policy, Mr Darabos! And you can remember that yourself. The troops don't like you, Minister. The soldiers have no respect for you; You treat them in a disdainful way. I'm completely aware of this: They treat the troop aversely. You believe that you can deal with Austrian army generals like chess figures. They also do not comply with the law of the service, Mr. Minister. The Minister of Defense is Mr Kammerhofer. Mr Darabos, step back! We by the BZÖ will vote in favour of this motion of censure today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17232	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17253	High house! Values Members of the Federal Government! The very poor statements that my previous speaker was inclined to speak in my direction have the following background: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Mrs Lap has given a speech here that has bothered me. That is why I took the opportunity to look at the document which the Minister of Defence held against me, namely the 1997 FPÖ Party Programme, with the recommendation to create a professional army under NATO accession. Then I told him: Well, the Romans were here 15 after Christ – and yet we are no longer talking about political cooperation with them. I could add: Next time I bring a few statements by Austromarxist Dr. Otto Bauer and compare them with the political positions of the SPÖ today. And that's not going to fit. But one thing I don't let take, who always: I am in political opposition to you, Mr Minister – and I do not need a ‘must’ for that. I had courage, you weren't even in the world, Mr. Vorsprecher. I stand in political opposition, which I have clearly expressed with regard to Minister Darabos. But I have a different choice of words than some others. And one thing nobody can buy me here, namely, to move to personal enmity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] None of the political competitors here prompts me to project political or personal enmity. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Even if the motion of censure against Minister Darabos was successful, I would meet Mr Darabos again with the same kindness and courtesy that I had done in the same minute afterwards. And I recommend this to all here in this house: political opposition, yes, personal enmity, that is the devil; for that I stand. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you don't want to hear and acknowledge this, you should take additional lessons in political culture. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Next point: In a wrong way, the unconstitutional approach I have held several times by the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State Darabos has been confused by itself with reform. This is certainly not confusing, however, because this “reform” – in connection with which the Chief of Staff was given media attention – requires a constitutional change here in this House. That's why, dear Dr. Cap, you don't make that mistake either! Policy is political, per se reform, no doubt – but enforcement of a law is due to the constitutional situation. There's no way past that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, I invite everyone to follow the motion for a reluctance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17374	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues, on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport pursuant to Rule 74. 1 B-VG. Such a decision by the National Council requires the presence of half of the Members. I expressly note this. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request is supported by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That is why we are doing so. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name "Yes" – these are grey ballots – or the name "No" – which are the pink ballots. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the request for a failure of confidence to vote “Yes” in favour, those who vote against to throw “No” vote in the urn. Be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask Mr Zanger's author to start the call for name; Member of the European Parliament Auer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17452	The vote will end. I call on the House staff to carry out the polling of votes under the supervision of the scribes. I'm interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17490	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 168; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 66, No votes: 102. The application is therefore rejected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[See correction by President Neugebauer p. 197.]] The names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. The Members voted with ‘Yes’ (corrected version): Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; Laust, Linder, List; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Scheibner, Schenk, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Incubators, eaters; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser; Haberzettl, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muchitsch, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pendl, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Worm. [[17:45:47]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17689	I will resume the negotiations on points 3 to 5 of the agenda. Mr Obernosterer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17714	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! From military matters to agenda items 3 to 5, including the report by the Equal Treatment Committee on the Federal Government's report on the reduction of women's disadvantages. ==References== It should, as I believe, be a matter of course in a republic, that equality will be lived, and I think it will be done so in that state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But if there are sins, that is also to be feared. My previous speaker in this debate, Mr Krist, has provided an example of where there are serious disadvantages on women in shopping centres or corporations. I'm out of business myself. He has stated that there are employment contracts that include 20, 25 hours, although the employees there have to work 40, 50 hours. As I said, such cases are not known to me at Weitem. Should this really be so, this is on the table. And we know that we have the legal requirements to stop what goes until the withdrawal of the commercial right. This is in the public hands, speaking with the district captains. What is the distribution of staff in the public sector? We know the quota. Of the 320 000 federal employees, about 60 percent are men, 40 percent are women. The development is going in a positive direction. In 2001, only 18 percent of women were in senior positions, while in 2009 it was 27 percent. How does it look in the private sector? There it is that the approximately 400,000 companies are led to around 40 percent of women. In the private sector, about 30 percent of the managers are women. We know that there and there, as has been said, there are adjustments. We know that the economy is happy to have skilled women on the labour market. The economy makes something quite clear: In the case of equal performance, gender must not play a role. Every entrepreneur is happy to get a capable wife for a leadership position. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17760	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17781	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Obernosterer! If that were the case, as you said, we would have no difference in the income of women and men, except you assume that women do less than men, and I don't assume it. It is therefore not due to a lower performance of women! Therefore, unfortunately, it is not in reality as you have claimed that women achieve equal income for equivalent work, but we are working on it to be like that in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the report on the reduction of women's disadvantages, which covers a period of two years. This report is a consequence of the 1992 equal treatment package. To remember: The equal treatment package was a result of the Constitutional Court knowledge of December 1990 concerning gender-specific retirement age. In this context, all parliamentary parties, with the exception of the FPÖ, have also gradually established the increase in the age of seizure for the retirement pension of women in the Constitution from 2024 to 2033. By the way, this was a consequence of the desire to improve the pension rights of women and to introduce pensionable child rearing periods of four years, which for the first time were also added. This means, even if you have worked, that the basis for calculating the amount of the pension is to increase the amount of the pension. So since then, there has been that. Some should inform themselves before they raise demands here. In 1992, it was assumed that until that date, i.e. until 2024, the disadvantage of women would have been eliminated. The report now before us, however, shows that we still have a broad way to achieve genuine equality between women, especially in economic and social matters, but also in democratic empowerment and in the elimination of the ‘glass ceiling’. Despite numerous political efforts, it has unfortunately not been possible to overcome horizontal segregation and gender distribution on the labour market. Therefore, a unilateral discussion on the early increase in the retirement age for women is missing. We need to accelerate the reduction of women's disadvantages. In this context, I should like to highlight positively the income reports, the provisions for job registrations and the increase of sanctions under the equal treatment law, and I would like to thank you once again, Mrs Minister, for your commitment. The National Action Plan on Equality is a good tool for reducing the disadvantages of women on the labour market. However, the report also shows us how necessary a qualitative and target-oriented implementation of gender budgeting in public budgets is. That's where all the departments are required, ladies and gentlemen. Help is offered in qualitative form by the Ministry of Women. For this good and dedicated work, Mrs. Federal Minister, not only thanks to you, but also to the employees of your home, I ask you to give this thanks. It will be up to all of us, which drive will receive equality policy. Gender budgeting is at least another tool available to us. I think that we owe it to women in Austria that there is an actual equality first before we talk about further changes in the course of life biographies here in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17839	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17860	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to continue with what Mrs Silhavy said, but I would also like to address what Mrs Schittenhelm has argued in this debate about increasing the age of retirement among women. . I do not see Mr Schittenhelm right now, I therefore ask you to set it up. Among other things, Mr Schittenhelm argues, but also other colleagues from the ÖVP with the so-called age poverty of women. However, the causes of poverty in old age – which also shows this report – are quite different. Trude Unruh, by the way, once called the poverty of old age “the cynical end of Christian family politics. ” The causes of poverty in old age: lower incomes for women, lack of childcare facilities, the increase in low employment, the lack of participation of men in household and child rearing, as well as poorer evaluations of women's occupations. And this also includes – and this must already be mentioned – the 2003 pension reform, which has gone down from the principle of the best 15 years, and one has passed into an extension of the calculation periods. This has cost women up to 15 percent of pension – now my colleague Schittenhelm is back here – or has led to a huge loss of pension. This is the background for women's poverty. When the debate on the increase in the retirement age began in Austria, the Minister, the Doyenne of the Austrian Women's Policy, Johanna Dohnal, held: Only when there is equality between women and men can there be, at the end of all these disadvantages, an approximation of the retirement age of women and men, but not before. There has been a broad women's alliance here in this house – but you already listen to my arguments! [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: We are the only country in Europe!]] I'm just telling you about all these backgrounds, and your only argument is: “We are the only country in Europe!” Hello!, I can only say that because that is a little bit, Mr Bartenstein, to say: “We are the only country in Europe!” That's really too little for me. One has to look at structurally what is the cause of poverty in women. If argument is made, please listen; unfortunately, I don't have much time now. Just briefly: There was a broad women's alliance where we said: End of the disadvantages, and if there are no more, you can also talk about the retirement age among women. Now, to start with it and explain to women that all the disadvantages are over, so it can't be! And this report clearly shows that there are still disadvantages of women. Therefore: We must continue to fight against this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17913	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17934	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The present report focuses, among other things, on the brilliant issue of “favourability of women in the labour market”, but it should be noted that this Federal Government has put a special focus on this issue. The first steps have already been taken in the area of gender equality, but many of the measures of the National Action Plan are only in the implementation phase. At present, the male income benefit is still around 30 percent, which is unfortunately in the end of the EU comparison. The differences in income may be partly due to professional and industry-specific pay-offs. (b) the Member States shall take the “typical women’s professions” are paid worse from the outset than “typical men’s professions”. It has also been shown that women are largely transferred to child rearing and family care. Especially through this role thinking, women are automatically pushed aside for many other areas. Income justice between women and men is a matter of fairness and must finally become a matter of course. Unfortunately, women's unemployment is currently rising again – and especially the older workers. But thanks to Minister Hundstorfer, this situation is countered with special programmes, focusing on older women and re-primary women. However, the current report shows that there are still gender differences in income or in the labour market. Finally, I would like to make another appeal. They all judge: Our goal must be to achieve equality of opportunity for all workers regardless of gender or age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e17988	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18010	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for each speech because, on the one hand, colleagues are bringing in their own views, on the other hand, but on the other hand, they are also very clearly showing the different positions. Even if we all pursue a goal – and I believe it was no one who said something against equality between women and men – it is so that often different ways should lead there: because of our ideology or our party membership. In any case, we can say that Austria is not yet a woman's political paradise. What do I mean by that? – As a women’s policy paradise, we can call Austria if women can participate in any area as it corresponds to the population breakdown. This is not the case, however, in which I would never prescribe anyone's life plan for himself, which family form someone should choose, whether someone wants to be employed or not, how someone wants to see himself cared for, et cetera. Unfortunately, however, it is not the case that every woman can choose it that way. It doesn't matter where a person lives, it doesn't matter what training someone started, because that doesn't mean that training can continue as it originally started from school or from teaching. Things can happen in life, such as the birth of a child who may have a severe disability, often having to change life's designs, life plans. Divorces can take place, which represent a whole new situation and major challenges for women, but also for men. The report simply tries to show what has not only been done on the one hand by the government, the venue for the resort, so far, but also the focus: How can we produce these in the labour market – and much has been said today – where there is still no equality? There are also different entrances. On the one hand, politics, we can, here in the House you can pass laws that then prescribe certain things, with sanctions or without sanctions. But this is just one side of the medal; I think we should never ignore the second side: How will it be handled? What if someone doesn't comply with the law? What happens if nothing happens? Does it help women, or does it not help women? That is to say, it is also about the disadvantages that take place, even if there is no law that simply lies on the table, which are simply applied to women: Do this, or you'll lose your job! It's about this pressure to which women are often exposed. Even here, it doesn't matter in which region someone lives, whether someone – even that has already been said – is offered only a part-time job and how it is then lived. Why do only 7 percent men work part-time in Austria? Because they still deserve more than women – is that the right answer? Or it's also about: How is paid and unpaid work ever seen? How is it evaluated? And how can it be handled that men go more into Karenz, that young fathers also use this possibility? I believe that the traffic light system of the report is important to all of us, even if it is necessary for some explanation. The three authors – two of them were present in the equal treatment committee – brought us these red, yellow and green traffic lights so that in the course of time – every two years this report has to be presented – we can see at a glance what has changed. If it is too complicated – even that has been said – the next report will try to present it even more simply, so that we can see at a glance whether we are on the right path and what has been done. The focus of the report – not everything has yet been done, but a lot has begun – is the National Action Plan: The Federal Government wants to change here, would like to point out that inequality treatment is there simply wants improvements. There we are in the middle of 40 out of 55 measures if they are not already done; that is not so bad. It won't work right away. We are receiving international certificates that are not particularly worthy of imitation, but we have set out measures so that we can make changes here as well. I think that in the next report, in two years' time, we can hopefully say: We are no longer in the penultimate position, we are already on the global report, which has been published, for a lot more places. We have already brought the things that we started to use two, three years ago to such an extent that compatibility is no longer just a matter for women, but that it is already an important issue for men and women that we have more fathers in Karenz that women have jobs they can live on and, and, and. I don't want to do this anymore. I would like to thank you very much, also for the debate in the Committee on Equal Opportunities. Of course, she has to be an incentive for us to continue, but here we are all in demand again. My closing apple you already know: It can only go together! Women's policy is all a matter of concern; equality policy is social policy. This can not only be pushed to the women and said: Well, do it once, and I'll look at it. I say in this sense: Thank you very much! I think there is still a lot to do, but we should really be proud of what has already been achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18097	There is no more word for this, I will close the debate. We shall now proceed to the votes. Vote on the request of the Equal Treatment Committee to take note of the Federal Government report on the reduction of women's disadvantages, 2009–2010 report period. I call on those Members who take note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Opinion on the request from the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 1492 of the supplements. Whoever supports this request, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – This is accepted by a majority. Opinion on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 1493 of the Supplements. In the case of your consent, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept the motion for a resolution 1604/A(E) to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[18:04:32]] 6. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology pursuant to Sections 48 and 49 of the Federal Railway Act, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 95/2009, as well as pursuant to § 3 Privatbahngesetz 2004 on the public service services ordered in 2010 by the Federal Government of Austria and the private sector (Common Economic Performance Report 2010) (III-276/1488 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18167	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. Oral reporting has not been required. The first speech is by Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18195	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, as already in the Committee, we will reject the 2010 Joint Economic Performance Report, since, as already noted in the Committee, we are well aware of differences in claim and reality and here we are partly dissociating the claim and reality. Mrs Bundesminister, I am going to address our direct connections in Styria again today, on the subject, because we believe that a very massive blow is happening here, which we cannot accept in this way, even with regard to the fact that our State Councillor Gerhard Kurzmann fought with very limited resources for these direct train connections, but on the part of your department until now there was little to no willingness to talk. Mrs Bundesminister, we also ask ourselves what rules, such as the Transport Services Treaty for example, will result when services like these direct trains are permanently shut down. That's what we liberals say quite clearly: When benefits are dropped, the financial performance must also be reduced! However, this is not recognizable in the planning of your place of business: We have an increase to € 687 million in this area by 2019. The so-called bonus malus system, a quality assurance that represents a first right step in the field of punctuality, cleanliness, complaint management and the like. But – and I really am now on the subject of direct train connections – it does not change the fact, Mrs. Federal Minister, that the Styria and especially Graz have fallen victim to a massive blow here: Graz–Linz, Graz–Innsbruck, Graz–Bregenz and now also the removal of three direct train connections from Salzburg to Graz! You almost have the impression, Mrs Bundesminister, that here you are deliberately putting the Styria on the shelf track to possibly give Voves the lead, who has now also taken the floor and meant: Well, then he will use it, or he will take action accordingly, which our Council of State, namely the National Council of the State of Kurzmann, does not make. The reality and fact is that, particularly in the field of transport in the Styria, the savings fund has been used quite massively – namely by SPÖ and the reform partner ÖVP – and that it is simply not possible to take the required € 1 million in addition. This cannot be covered by the budget of the Landesrat Kurzmann. Mrs Bundesminister, we demand They therefore repeatedly put an end to this inconceivable ballast for us in the Styria. I say it here, too, and have already mentioned it in the Committee on the argument that your ministry or the ÖBB always focuses on the lack of passenger numbers: We know today from secure information that the countings in this area have not been properly carried out, that only persons who have entered Graz or Salzburg have been counted, but not those who have risen in other areas. Therefore, a serious assessment of our opinion is not feasible. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution by Mr Kunasek and other Members: ‘The National Council wants to decide: ‘The competent members of the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, are invited to act on the management of the ÖBB, to continue to ensure the distance of passengers on the line ‘Salzburg–Graz–Salzburg’ and to withdraw the planned cancellations of the three IC trains on this route in this sense’. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, some Members of this House will be aware of this motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Crochet: Briefly blocks everything!]] Shortman doesn't block anything at all, Mrs. Colleague. They are now trying, with – I say quite consciously – to prefer petitions that the SPÖ is working for the direct train connection. [[Abg. crochet: Is everything negotiated!]] Today, you have the opportunity – especially the signatorys of this petition from SPÖ – to support our request. Then we would have achieved something for the Styria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18253	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18359	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18380	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Community performance report is, I would say... [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: “Communication”!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] The Common Economic Performance Report is a single success story. In addition to a good infrastructure, it is the public service of the second and decisive building block to achieve the relocation of transport to rail. A few numbers: According to the 2010 report, € 731 million has been paid to public transport, Rail Cargo and various private railways. This means an increase of about €14 million compared to 2009 – that is, a success story! Further: Last year, over 70 million train kilometres could be ordered. The ÖBB transported 210 million passengers. Again the comparison: Compared with 2009, the number of tractor kilometres as well as the number of passengers could really be increased significantly. As the report also points out, a quality management with a bonus malus system was established in 2010 to improve quality and raise customer satisfaction. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The shift in freight transport to the rolling country road was also very successful in 2010, even though the economic crisis has led to a decline. Only to illustrate what the GWL brings: If there were no public service, it would mean that there would be 36 000 additional trucks – almost a third of all goods transported in Austria – and millions of autokilometres. If there were no public services, that would also mean the collapse of traffic on the road! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Summary: Public services contribute significantly to a successful and sustainable transport policy. Their importance is taken into account by increasing the available resources by €50 million in the 2012 budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18423	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18444	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Heinzl, it is not a single success story! Unfortunately, I have to list the drops of wormwood in a row, although I can confirm you, Mrs. Minister: First of all, you are trying very hard personally, and secondly, we now have more money for the public service. Thirdly, we finally have transparent conditions, say, we have a report that, after years - I don't want to say exactly for decades, but for years - we have really miserable condition that it contained only three, four pages, but that of almost 550 million, now finally deserves the word "report" and represents the facts quite clearly. These are the three positive aspects that I would like to highlight, given that we are constantly spending €1.6 billion each year on the part of the Minister of Finance, Mr Kern of the ÖBB, on the part of the Minister of Finance, in order to subsidise in the passenger car sector privileges. On the other hand, the comparatively smaller amount for public transport services is public transport. But in the development, I still see a step back – before I come to the drops of wormwood – because we certainly now have for the first time exactly the opposite: It's gonna be ordered, it's paid for, and that's gonna be done. Only: In some cases, less will be done – that is always the dispute between us – than the offer used to be. Some things have been diluted under the rule, others of course have been provided a little better. Now I come to the wormhead drops and immediately put the eternal disput question between us: the link Graz–Linz! My predecessor from Styria already pointed out: The direct connections from Graz have been diluted, and between Linz and Graz there is no longer any more a new connection. Mrs Minister, you're always saying that the federal states have to pay. But we say again and again – and behind us is also the majority of public opinion – the connection between national capitals is the fundamental task of the federal government! I do not need countries, but the connection of capitals is a federal task, no matter how the individual relations now look in detail. What do we have a state of Austria for if we do not even finance the direct connection of the capitals via the federal grants? So we are very, very different in our opinion, and we simply remain on our stand, whether from Upper Austria or from Steirer or as an all-Austrian. But now let's go to the individual wormhead drops. Mr Heinzl, there is, unfortunately, no direct competition. One could have described these public services and thus established a competition. Certainly, the ÖBB would not have done so easily; I understand this contract in part also as a job promotion for the ÖBB. [[Abg. Haberzetl: Is that bad?]] Okay, that's it. [[Abg. Haberzetl: And? Is that bad, Mrs. Colleague?]] We could have had practically cheaper kilometers for the train. [[Abg. Haberzettl: How? I don't think so, Mrs. Colleague.]] But we have again taken into account the conditions at the ÖBB. We could have started the return on capital much lower, we are putting it on very generously. The EU foresees 3 to 4 percent, with us it is up to 10 percent. Passenger traffic can make a profit, the profits are then expressed in bonuses for the directors or directors. Only: The basic offer – and that is very important to me – is the basic principle for optimal money use, the optimal return for passengers, for the people, for the commuters, you have not achieved with this contract! We need an increase in efficiency in itself. With the increased resources, Mrs Minister, I am grateful for the fact that you have increased them, I would certainly be able to achieve more. I am very, very suspicious of this investment return scheme. That's a big wormhead drop. We could have written out – I have already said it – that we could have made controls that really deserve this word. But what are we doing? – Pre-registration checks! We could not have started the discussion with the regional railways now, even though the performance has been ordered. I say: Gutenstein, Lower Austria – now is the talk about being locked there again! We could have practically asked for more quality. The company data are the only basis here, not an independent determination of quality. There would have been more inside, as would the quality and efficiency incentives. Overall, Mrs. Minister, I think the Austrian ticket is in the government program. I know that costs 40, 50 or 60 million – please, put it into practice! The public service services are a first step towards supply, but it should be improved and also improved by tariffs. I am therefore sorry that I cannot give this report, even if it is better than its predecessors, my approval. However, I am very much in favour of the ÖBB continuing to expand its performance.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18510	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18532	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I was rarely of an opinion, in almost all respects, as Mrs Moser is today, even if you are surprised; I hope you will not be shocked. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! 731 million they have cost the public service in 2010, and the lion's share of it went into towards ÖBB – very much money, although by the way, only 15 percent of what the taxpayer has to pay year after year to cash towards ÖBB! It is to be recognized – and you have also mentioned this positively – in terms of quality management of one: Orderd kilometers; one or the other went on. A bad man who thinks that the West Railway does not receive any public service – that is, a bad one who thinks that this could have something to do with the West Railway and Mr. Hazelsteiner, who, of course, now has no access to public service on this route. The report notes with pride that 70 million kilometers are ordered per year. Unfortunately God is not there the kilometers between Graz and Linz! They were no longer in it, although it's only over 200 kilometers. Now a black and green axis develops between the Styria and the Upper Austrians or at least the Upper Austrian. That's what I'm saying: If so much money is pumped into an area by the taxpayer, then a basic transport link between the capitals should all be in it! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, two points to the end. The first: Some say that this GWL contract is also something like a full-scale insurance scheme of the ÖBB. I wanted to know the whole thing, but unfortunately the Treaty itself is not available to Parliament – a slightly better report, but unfortunately not the Treaty. It would be nice if one could see this contract in order to discourage rumors, that even electricity tariff increases – by the way, electricity tariffs fixed by the ÖBB itself from its own power plants – or the loss due to germinating competition such as Mr. Hazelsteiner on the Westbahn will be compensated by the GWL Treaty. It would be nice if there was an disclosure there. Secondly, and here I am again with Mrs Moser: It's nice if there's a more call for tender. With these public services, €730 million, it would be really good to write them off once. There is now the WESTbahn and there is a GKB that is considering driving the line Graz–Salzburg. So: It can, but does not always have to be the ÖBB. So on to new shores! Letter You'll have the public service in the future! That is quite possible. Perhaps then the benefits are improved. We need to rethink the subject of “railway”. Infrastructure, this is a state task, but who drives it – that can be the ÖBB or someone else who might make it better.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18599	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18620	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Bartenstein said: A skewer who thinks evil is that the Westbahn no longer gets any promotions or that exactly those routes on which the WESTbahn rides. I like to describe myself as a skelter in your eyes now, because it is really funny that exactly on the Westbahn, where the WESTbahn will drive soon and compete with the ÖBB, these public service promotions will suddenly be stopped; and if the WESTbahn is considering driving the line Salzburg–Graz, even there is suddenly no more worthy of funding. Somewhere the cat bites in the tail. I think you should think about bad guys and so on. Considerable is also the situation – you have explained it – that only 15 percent of the federal budget, which goes to the ÖBB, goes to public service. I would like to come back to the pension situation later, but I would like to address a subject that is very hot with my nails. If we look at freight traffic, there are the ÖBB monopolists there, you can almost say. There is hardly any possibility for a private railway to move forward there or economically – Mr. colleague, you are still on the way! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl]] – or to make some progress economically. Recently I was at an event in Tyrol on a weekend. As an official of the European Commission has said that the European Commission is planning to make a link between Bludenz and Verona in order to bring freight to the rails there, of course with a focus on the southern German region, i.e. Schwaben and Bavaria. I then explained to him that there is a single track between Lindau and Bregenz – so that passenger traffic is almost overwhelmed, so there is no reason to think of freight traffic at all – and then between Bregenz and Bludenz is a two-track route that is in the half-hours of traffic, so that there will not be much off the road with freight traffic; the southern German space is guaranteed by this route not relieved, the freight traffic cannot be brought to the rail. So it's utopia, what's planned. Now, let's take a look at the pensions. Mr Haberzettl! You were right to be excited. You know our request. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] This will now be two years old on Saturday, namely the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations on the ÖBB. It's about retirement. If I may explain for a moment: 40 000 pensioners are responsible for costs of €1.2 billion for special schemes. I know why you have resigned, Mr Haberzettl: You can't answer that either. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] But here, for ÖBB staff, €1.2 billion has been added to pension sugars, in addition to the additional fee included in the pension. That is, in no other area, only in the protected area of the ÖBB there is the fact that the additional fees are included and the officials of the ÖBB can retire earlier. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] In other words, for any overtime that has been done, the ÖBB staff may retire earlier. Here is an injustice that belongs to repaired, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haberzettl has taken the right step. He can no longer answer for this himself, so he will have resigned.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18685	Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18706	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to thank the employees of my home for this excellent report. I believe that it also clearly explains the transparency, which is often rightly called for, about the performance of the Federal Government for public transport. I believe that it is indeed a public service performance report that there are no subsidies or opaque payments to any company – that would not, by the way, be possible for EU competition rules – but that the report also makes quite clear: What is the performance a company is supposed to provide? Which of these services does a company – whether owned by the federal government or by a private company – have to conduct on its own? Where can you “make business” when you are on the train? The report also shows where we need to support tariffs in the public sector, for example among pupils, that we have to organize the offer for counterparts. And this applies to the Federation, as well as to countries and communities: If we are in favour of having a good public transport, we must also ensure that it is still a leader for the population in the future, because that is the requirement for it to be adopted. I believe – also from the previous contributions to the debate – that it is beyond dispute that public transport is a very important issue and that the Federal Railways have a very important role to play – in terms of climate protection, the mobility of people, but also of the economic location. Good transport is also better lifted on the rail than on the road for good reasons – and, as I said, also because of my deep conviction. This environmentally friendly transport, as it is the railways to have in passenger and freight transport, deserves real joint effort. We can now stand here and say: That in the Styria is a balding. We can make ourselves and say: There is a sudden alliance of the ÖVP with the Greens on the question of the railway link between Linz and Graz. This alliance in this area exists because it was the state government, namely the black and green state government in Upper Austria, which has no longer supported this joint effort, which has recruited its share of the public transport obligation in a press conference. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is not their primary task!]] So I would say that this sudden “combination” and commonness is easily transparent in this case. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: (in the direction of Green) Perceived! He's caught! Bad luck!]] As regards the question of Styria and the train connections between Salzburg and Graz – this is also the question: What is the task of the federal government? You, ladies and gentlemen of this House, have defined the task of the Federal Government by deciding on a target network. There is a clear definition of how many kilometres the federal government provides rail services and how much the countries can order in addition to these public transports. During the discussion on the Salzburg–Graz route, I feel as if you were telling me that there is no railway left. 251 trains travel daily between Salzburg and Graz. Of these, 6 trains are directly connected, financed by the federal government and by the Austrian taxpayer and the Austrian taxpayer. If it succeeds through joint effort – and I am very confident that I have constructive discussions with the Styria and Upper Austria – that we all make a contribution, namely, the Federal Government and the Länder, to increase this offer – it does not contradict it – then we will do the same. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is not a country task!]] And I assume that we have a great opportunity to increase these achievements as well. What is still important to me is that this becomes so clear in the performance report: We're not going less train. In this country, there have never been as many kilometres of railway as today. To give you a few figures from the past few years: In 2007, it was 92 million kilometers that the railways traveled each year; and in 2010, just 3 years later, it was over 95 million kilometers. Never before has there been so much train in this country. That is why it is well-invested money that is invested in public transport. We have never transported so many people by rail in this country. We have never transported so many tons of goods in this country, and we all have something of it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what is also important to me: Of course we can say: Open the market! There is a private company – which I strongly supported because I am in favour of the competition – which will drive on the Westbahn in the future. This is a specially run route, also for the ÖBB. There's no grant, because you can make money. But let's write 92 million kilometers, what does that mean? The German state railway? Is that the competition? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Or the French Railway? So I'd say, We have a good red and white-red company, which we should strengthen, where we should increase customer-friendliness, where we do as much as we have never done before – this report makes this clear. That's why I'd like to: With all the criticism – which is important, because only that brings you on – let's be a little more proud of the ÖBB!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18789	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18810	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Thank you for making me drink to you now. This is a joy for me, because then I can easily connect and correct some myths, some things that are not properly represented in the public. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] – Mr Hörl, you too often belong to it. We all agree, I believe, that it is necessary that public transport is also available in sparsely populated rural areas. It is also necessary that there is public service – just as it also needs support for, for example, miners, which I absolutely do not call into question, but also for real real miners, because the spectrum is sometimes too far. [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP]] If you're talking about full cash insurance, I don't think that's the right name. It is certainly not serious that on the one hand one approves things and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the so-called political scale, the same is assessed differently. The so-called public services are certainly not subsidies, but they are paid amounts for actual benefits, and they must be challenged by the federal government, by the country, by the countries and by the municipalities. I'd be with some of my colleagues. Mr Kunasek! This is not only to be paid by the federal government, but, as Mrs Minister has already said – connecting to Graz – the FPÖ Council is also in demand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On behalf of Mr Deimek and Mr Hagen: For example, in the Committee, the municipalities were given more responsibility. As mayor, I can tell you that this is a big problem and that if you forgive me, we will be able to blow the last hole. It is certainly better to think about a fairer tax system where we can manage new revenue. With this I would be with Mrs. Dr. Moser and Mr Bartenstein, who believe that, for example, Salzburg-Vienna should be promoted on the West Railway. [[Mr Bartenstein and Mr Moser.]] – You said that in committee, Mr Bartenstein. I am absolutely against that. Another thing you're always wrong about, including with others, to the public or in circulation: You mentioned the 15 percent who absolutely do not vote. That's the $6.7 billion that you've been colporting over and over again. They're absolutely not right. Only one third is actually attributable to the ÖBB, the other is €2.1 billion for the pensioners, whom we do not count among farmers, for example. Look If you please, I'll miss the good will. The rest, the €2.4 billion, are liabilities where even the ÖBB still pays €150 million to the Minister of Finance. So only one third is based on truth, and that's not much truth. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm very glad to be at the SPÖ. We will not drop the ÖBB from the SPÖ, but we are in the process of expanding it better, because they have been neglected and almost killed in many years. We know about who. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18885	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18906	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. So thank you very much for presenting this report here in Parliament. The target network you have referred to was not decided here in Parliament, but rather behind Parliament's back, so I think it is strange that you mention it this way, Mrs Minister. In general, I am surprised that if there are payments from the federal government, the offer for the passengers of the ÖBB, for the railway drivers, will not get better, but rather worse. There is a particularly sharp example of this in the south of Burgenland. There was massive tax money in the Southburg Regional Railway – often with a lot of criticism from the Court of Auditors regarding the allocation of these funds. The joke at this is, however, that a short time later the connection line or the forward line between Oberwart and Friedberg was stopped. So I think this is already a special shield-citizen stroke and a special waste of tax money, and I wonder why the ÖBB will not receive deductions if they cease services when they stop routes and the offer for customers worsens. I wonder You also: Why Takes Their ministry, the BMVIT, does not by, if the ÖBB also actively attempt to succeed operators for these Find the track? There, I think you need action. The fact that the operation is not carried out by another operator may be in the interest of the ÖBB or regional bus companies, but it is not EU law, it has nothing to do with a modern transport policy and it is not in the climate interest at all. I would like to ask you to take on your climate policy responsibilities! We are currently experiencing a shift from the rail to the road rather than the other way round. If the funds are granted in such a way that the offer is not improved for the customers, it is no wonder either. I mean, Mr Josef Auer has previously said that there should also be a public offer in rural regions. – Yes, there should be a good quality offer, absolutely. But first of all, this offer must also be available so that customers and people in the regions can use it. I think there are many railways – this Oberwart-Friedberg railway is an example of this – that are important for the regions so that people in rural regions are also connected to public transport, have the opportunity to drive publicly, and not just depend on the car. A car is not only a burden on the climate, but also a very heavy burden on rural families, who often have to afford two cars. I expect more commitment from you if you want to make forward-looking transport policy more effective than in this comprehensive road programme, which is still completely insane. Let's do it again. You said before: “Are we proud of the ÖBB!” – I would be very, very happy to be proud of the Austrian climate balance. Unfortunately, this is not possible, the Austrian climate balance is more than embarrassing. In order to improve this climate balance, you also need to make a contribution. That's what I'm asking for! Nevertheless, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18973	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e18995	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am glad that it has actually succeeded in maintaining or reintroducing important traffic. The country of Tyrol and many other federal states are now taking a lot more money into their hands than they have in recent years. One would think that this increase in money also would have led the federal states, in conjunction with the public services provided by the federal government, to a similar extent, to a concentration of the train connections. Unfortunately, this is not the case, but I think it is crucial that we consider, as Mrs Moser has said today, whether we need federal powers at the ÖBB at all, if there is not even a single federal competence on the major transversals between the capitals of the state, and also because national subsidies, as if a railway were going into a remote valley, are necessary and necessary. I would not be upset yet, nor would I think it is absolutely wrong – I am with Mr Moser and Mr Bartenstein – if at the same time a new contract had not been concluded with the ÖBB, which we do not have, in fact, just about: What deficient route is being promoted to maintain rail transport with how much money? This cannot be because the quality criteria, which were at least the basis, were supposed to have been completely out of place. Mrs Bundesminister, correct me; we do not know the details of this contract. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: You don't listen! She already explained it!]] The west railway, where most passenger traffic is, most of the passenger kilometres are driven, has fallen out completely. This can no longer be correlated with just about the number of people, the number of kilometres driven, and the overall average is 7 to 8 percent more expensive every year, while in Denmark we have public service contracts that result in a 30 percent increase in efficiency over ten years. At least 10 per cent more efficient, I think you could ask the ÖBB in any case. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] For this reason, this public service contract seems to me to be very difficult for taxpayers in itself, and I cannot understand any permanent cost increases to this absolutely excessive extent. On the other hand – also to colleagues Auer; You know the discussions that are being held on noise protection walls in your municipality of Radfeld, where you are mayor; perhaps it would be in common interest –: I do not want to take away any of the public authorities now, my dear colleague, you, mayor, but it would be more sensible, I think, to make more of a noise protection wall for the people of your community, than to write ten-year contracts for the juxtaposition of the public funds for the public authorities. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Gahr]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19046	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19068	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! I may begin with a request. Mr President Neugebauer, as you are the newly elected Chairman of the GÖD, I would ask you to: Try – I am not going to succeed anymore – to explain to Mr Hagen what the fixing of additional fees for officials and former officials means, because he also consumes them, but he has not yet understood it. Please, finally explain it to him; I have resigned in the meantime. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] I can also do some things right. Mrs Moser, you say that the RCA is a monopolist, but there are eight freight transport companies in total on the Austrian network, and I think there is quite a fair competition here. In 2009, the Greens agreed to the 2025 target network. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Only the approaches, not all!]] You may not have read the process completely, but you have voted in the course of the change in the Federal Railway Act. There are some access to tenders, but even better are the experiences already available in Europe. Look Please look at Denmark, please, look at Sweden, look at Holland, here the tender fetishism – so you call it in the meantime – was pushed to the top. One of the most significant public transport companies was ARRIVA. There it made contracts with five years of contract with enormously high entry-level premiums under the title of investment premiums, and when the investment premiums were consumed, they all disappeared after five years. This is not the right access, and thank God the Federal Minister has not given this access to the liberalisation of transport, but, I think, with the recasting of the business services, for the public service contracts, there has been a good deal of order. And why the amounts have to rise, Mrs Colleague, I explain to you on the basis of the past. We did not have any increases between 2000 and 2007, and we did not even have an index of public services, i.e. we had a real loss of performance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Karin Hakl.]] Since 2007, there has been only one kilometer increase. If you believe in Parliament, do you think that we are only going to the workshop for three million miles? The 3 million kilometers, that's with the customers, but where they're needed. [[Abg. May. Karin Hakl: But they also had to get cheaper!]] This is in the sense that you always demand from the ÖBB, namely to use the funds where customers have something directly of it. And there they have it. I'm sorry, the hundreds of thousands of travelers between Graz and Salzburg simply don't exist. It is. But we have hundreds of thousands of travelers in the area of Wels, Linz, Vienna, Graz, Attnang-Puchheim, if you want to, Salzburg, Wörgl, Innsbruck, and there they are also served with reasonable schedules. The ÖBB fulfils only the task of acting in economic terms. I think you should recognize that too. Mrs. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to thank you for further developing the public service contract. It is really a real step in the right direction in the sense of customers and especially in the sense of the commuters.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19133	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19166	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Now I've got a precept. I'll stick to that. Good. I'm not saying which one. It was a fireworks already released by Mr Heinzl. Unimpressed of this, of course, €6.7 billion remains. Whether you're saying that's not right or it's right, they're standing down here at the federal grant to the ÖBB. So, and now we're going here and saying, Everything is great, it's all a success, as Mr Heinzl did. Of the 731 million for public service, 536 million are in passenger transport. That's plus 20 million. It's all great! Great increase. In the quality field we have increased, there is no need to hide the comparison with Switzerland at all. Whether we have 96.4 percent customer satisfaction now or 97 percent like in Switzerland, I think that's really a great performance that was done there. I like the approach in this report that, in future, €56 million will be made available for coming from the road to the rails in that freight traffic, which goes up to 25 tonnes, that is below 25 tonnes. This means tremendous progress for us in the rural regions. But – you have mentioned it, Mrs Moser – when I think about the Gutensteiner Bahn, it hurts me that it is now being stopped by Pernitz to Gutenstein. This, of course, means a huge transport for all the forest farmers there, but also for the paper factory, which needs to be carried out on the road in the future. If we manage to create incentives that we can bring this transport to the rails, then there is a lot already done. In conclusion, however, I would like to say to Mr Haberzettl, who, out of his position as representatives of the railways in the trade union union federation, is: You were one who always liked to speak against the Federal Railway Structure Reform here. I remember, in 2003, after the completion of this subcommittee, the Federal Chancellor said that this federal railway structural reform, which started Black-Blue, is the death penalty for the Bundesbahn. Today we hear a success report from the Federal Minister, a jubilant report by Mr Heinzl. And the then spokesperson, your predecessor, the national council member Eder, meant that 12,000 railers had to be released. In the €6.7 billion the pensions of the railways are also inside. 72,000 Bundesbahners are still busy. One now leaves the ship, the colleague Haberzettl. Finally, I would also like to say to Mr Brunner: I wish that this country did not have a Green Minister for Transport in the future. That would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19217	There are no further words available here. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall proceed to the vote. Opinion on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of this report III-276 of the supplements. I would ask those Members who are in favour of taking note of it to give an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues on the security of IC trains in Salzburg–Graz–Salzburg and binding rules on rail passenger transport for all railway operators in Austria. If we support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19269	Before calling up the next items on the agenda, I announce: Mr Strache, Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr Kunasek and other Members of Parliament on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport. In the course of the debate on the urgent question, two voting cards were issued with the term “Ursula Haubner”. The correct result is therefore: Issued: 168, ‘Yes’ votes: 65, an invalid ‘No’ vote: 102. The difference has no influence on the outcome of the vote. [[18:51:27]] 7. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1396, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement on the termination of the Agreement of 27 June 1989 between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the People's Republic of China on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Area on trade between the European Economic Area and the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on trade between the European Economic Area and the European Economic Community and the European Economic Area (EEA) June 1997 on the provision and operation of air navigation facilities and services by EUROCONTROL at the upper airspace district 8. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1394, e.g._Other Organiser Convention on the establishment of the functional airspace block ‘Central Europe’ (1490d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19337	We come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Mr Heinzl came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19361	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Cross-border cooperation in aviation and especially in air safety is becoming increasingly important. It should be noted that the capacity of each nation-state will reach its borders only in view of the ever-increasing air traffic. The merger of several Central European states into a single airspace block will counteract foreseeable bottlenecks in airspace capacity and will actively address rapidly rising traffic levels in aviation. High house! In Europe, various systems combine to form a highly fragmented flicker slug and thus make it difficult for modern and customer-oriented air traffic control. At present, there are 36 individual airspaces across Europe, all of which are managed separately. This means waiting times, delays, detours and also relatively high costs, which in turn are shifted to the passengers. As an example: Although twice as many flights are handled in the US as in Europe, there are 74 percent fewer delays and flight safety costs. In this example alone, I believe, it is clear why it is important to create a single European sky. Austria, together with Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and Slovenia, will form the airspace block “Central Europe”. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: With the work in the single European airspace and with the Road Map Aviation 2020 developed by BMVIT and the economy, Austria is really well equipped in the field of aviation. The I see this as the future of this important economic sector permanently secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19404	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19425	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heinzl has described very well what this is about. I would just like to say that, of course, we are in favour of this agreement, which is not a question, but there is also a EUROCONTROL report, and it contains a bit of criticism of what is actually not working in the ministry responsible for the aviation authority. We welcome the Single European Sky Agreement, we also know the objectives, the sadness is only that we have not achieved those objectives defined by the Eurocontrol. We are in this context, as the paper says, “Worst Performer”, to German: We are very bad, Mr Heinzl. It's bad! We are one of the five countries that have not achieved the objectives. That's embarrassing, I think. When we look at the objectives, we see that we have not achieved the goal of cost reduction. However, I am not surprised by the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, because she does not look anywhere at any cost if we only look at the ÖBBB. We will probably have another discussion when the credit rating agencies arrive at some point in time, as is actually the case with the ÖBB. The delay targets have also been exceeded three times, this report tells us. The only thing the Federal Minister has looked at is that the performance of the Austro Control can remain the way it has been. Don't attack, don't be cheaper and more efficient! I want everything to stay the way it is. That is why I believe – we will experience this – that you will need to review this performance plan. This will have to be re-examined, and this is, of course, now that we have to work in this alliance which Mr Heinzl has referred to. A word on the road map that the Federal Minister has put forward – perhaps you will also come to speak on it; quite interesting –: A non-binding paper, I would almost say, unloving, careless, just like aviation policy was sometimes so in that country. There is neither a reference to financing nor a budget, nor a project manager, nor a project organisation. But these are the points that we need if we are to have an efficient aviation policy. I hope that, in the near future, the Federal Ministers will perhaps also define the objectives in this area and decide on those measures I have specified in the Road Map aviation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19465	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Diemek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19487	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Single European Sky, as it is so beautiful to say, the common European sky, from the vision to reality, with us stage by stage, but sometimes also, as Mr Maier has said, take steps. It is clear that a common airspace throughout Europe has some advantages to avoid, for example, the so-called bottlenecks, i.e. bottlenecks, in order to meet increasing traffic levels. Disadvantages exist a little – I say, in a very remarkable area – namely the task of state influence. This is, however, the more pleasant part to be achieved in the course of this whole European unification. We are basically on the right track in Europe. All costs incurred by Austria have been eliminated in 2008, 2009 and 2010. That's the happy, good, positive message. However, we have already come back to an area that Mr Maier has also mentioned, because it is worth noting that in the empire – if you take the monarchistic terms from earlier on – in the Kingdom of the BMVIT of the Minister of the Interior a county has widened, which is a biterl after the kind of lord. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mr Maier, it was not the EU or anyone else, it was the AEA, the association of European air carriers, so something like Lufthansa, Air France, British Airways, AUA and so on, who have just said what you have quoted, namely we are one of ten countries that have enormous problems with punctuality, we are one of 20 countries that have problems with cost efficiency – and that is the comment from the economy, always for the state. I quote from the report: ‘This paint of ambition is totally unacceptable.’ That is, in Austro's control, the way it fits the rulers is performed in a kind of estate. There is no control, there is no overview and so on. But now that Mrs Bures is making a direct accusation here, she would be bleak and populist, because she has just inherited it. She inherited something that was already created, attached and maintained before, and under the rule of her predecessor Faymann it was much worse. [[Abg. Wenninger: Forstinger was... predecessor!]] It now has to reap the fruits of the abuses that have been left by its predecessor, and can recoup everything. But let us come to the European Commission. What did the Commission itself say? What will she do on the 24th. Saying in her final report on November? – Seven out of eight criteria were not met. And if one were to take into account the purchasing power priority, the cost factor, then we would not only be the latter, but then we would have disappeared somewhere in the groundless. What else does the Austro Control – it is a very interesting collectionsurium – do? - She's stunning the pilot licenses. It is at costs and fees beyond what the airline bears and much more. There's really going to be a good way of doing it. There's done what you want. Mrs Bundesminister, there is a lot in the Road Map, but take it to your hand and, above all, get through in this county Austro Control! Create You're transparent there! Reduce the costs! Come from the bureaucracy to service orientation, because the airlines and air traffic are very important sectors, and they have not deserved to be treated as badly as the Austro control does at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19526	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19548	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, of course, the Austro control is also critical. There is no question that the idea of efficiency needs to be established a little more. Mrs. Minister! But first and foremost, I am also concerned that we are at last working efficiently throughout the European sky. This agreement, which we are now signing, and so to speak, the retiring of the other agreement is a step in the right direction, and that is why we support both government proposals. We simply have a lot to do with the fact that Sprit is saved by precise flying, through time-efficient handling of air traffic, by overly well organized transfers in the air. We also have a lot to do with the fact that you simply save fuel by improving the handling of air traffic and that you offer passengers more punctuality on the one hand and on the other hand you relieve the environment. That's why you have our support. But there is now another problem in connection with aviation in Austria, especially in the area of Vienna. And I would not like to miss the opportunity to once again present our position on the third slopes in Schwechat: If we are already pursuing the efficiency of air traffic, this should also mean that we are working together not only on handover, on air control, but also on the ground handling. Why is there no closer cooperation with Bratislava? [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Why do we need to build a third runway in Schwechat? Why don't we use these cooperation options with the neighbouring country? Overall, this would have significant advantages for the population in Vienna, for example in Vienna-South, and would certainly be better for the environment. The transport links to Bratislava are certainly as good in the future, as at several major international airports the connection to the nearest metropolis is. Mrs. Minister! That is why our agreement here is combined with the criticism of the Austro Control and above all with the criticism of the continuation of the policy of a third slope. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19599	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19620	Mr President. Minister! High house! We too will agree because it is a reasonable arrangement to manage the bottlenecks in this area a little better or so that there are fewer bottlenecks and that aviation in Europe can work better. But something has already surprised me when my colleague Maier left here: I was actually thinking that such a single matter would actually have to have unanimity in the coalition. But even there, Mr Maier has confirmed that there is no unity in the coalition in this regard. [[Abg. Neugebauer: In the vote already! Don't worry!]] I'm just wondering when we'll have “It’s enough! ” But that's what we'll see. I can join in the criticism of Austro Control. It has already been said by some previous speakers that a lot of things are going wrong there. Maybe I can illustrate the whole thing by a single example: I am concerned when an ORF employee from Vienna today, Markus Pohanka, leaves the ORF for a well-dominated job and turns to Austro Control as a press speaker. We all know that Austro control pays very high salaries, overpaid salaries and that in the private sector, Austro Control is picked up in many areas hi-no. I would just like to address the rescue where there is much in the arrogance, where the Austro Control has certainly been very clearly influenced, and that in a not quite correct way. I want to say that here. We should therefore really miss this association. Mrs. Minister, this is your responsibility. Please do!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19657	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19678	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagen, one thing I can say to you: If Mr. Ferry Maier criticises the whole thing, then this is certainly a good thing, then this minister must have worked well, for otherwise he would not have done so. Within the meaning of the relevant EU regulations and in the light of the Single European Sky, an improvement in aviation safety standards will undoubtedly be achieved and an increase in the efficiency of air traffic management and air traffic control services. In addition, with the establishment of the cross-border functional air bridge, we will optimize air navigation services within the meaning of the cross-border organisation and cooperation with the relevant air safety organisations. However, the FABCE Convention is also open insofar as enlargement to non-EU countries is not only possible, but is even intended to be promoted. Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are also to be added. Nevertheless, this Convention does not affect the national sovereignty of the Contracting States. Thus, about every state retains its previous privileges, especially in the field of security and defence. It is also at the discretion of each Contracting State, the scope of the airspace and the air navigation services to be controlled. In addition, national supervisory authorities may enter into appropriate agreements on closer cooperation ensuring the supervision of all air navigation organisations certified and designated in the FABCE air space. It is also very positive that, in financial terms, people in Central Europe will not incur any additional costs arising from the termination of the CEATS agreement, since all the resulting costs have already been eliminated in the period 2008 to 2010 and there are no financial commitments to CEATS contracting parties. The FABCE Convention will not have any financial impact on the Republic because all the costs incurred under the Agreement will be borne by airspace users by means of air navigation charges. Due to the requirements of European law and also because this FABCE Convention certainly represents progress towards the previous CEATS agreements, we are of course pleased to agree to this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19719	Mrs Bures spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19740	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have the speaker. list that it is only Pro-Redner, one can sometimes not quite get this impression. This shows that we clearly agree that what is decided today is something very positive, namely that we will reduce 36 European airspace to nine in the future. This is not only a lower number of airspace blocks, which will be fitted with them, but also means that passengers will have shorter flight times in the future. Shorter flight times mean shorter routes and thus lower kerosene consumption and also an economic benefit for the airlines. However, less kerosene consumption also means less pollutant emissions and therefore again a significant contribution to CO2 reduction. That is the positive that we decide today, and I thank you for your clear support across all parties. I would just like to say one sentence on the strategy, namely the Road Map aviation. We have first developed a clear aviation strategy in Austria by 2020. What does that mean for the economic location? What does aviation mean for our country's tourism? We have developed a strategy for this. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly explain who has worked on this so important aviation strategy, on this road map: the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Life, the Austrian Chamber of Economics, the airlines, the airports, the Chamber of Labour and international experts. I assume and hope that this group of experts, stakeholders and economic representatives will only be unthinkable banauses for Mr Maier. I thank the experts for this excellent road map and believe that it will also bring us a good future with regard to Austrian aviation.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19791	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the proposal from the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement on the termination of the Agreement of 27 June 1989 between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the People's Republic of China on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Area on trade between the European Economic Area and the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on trade between the European Economic Area and the European Economic Community and the European Economic Area (EEA) In June 1997 on the provision and operation of air navigation facilities and services by EUROCONTROL at the upper airspace district control centre for central European air navigation services and the Special Agreement on the implementation of Article 6 of the CEATS Agreement, in 1396 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(l) of the CEATS Agreement. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the proposal of the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Convention on the establishment of the functional airspace block ‘Central Europe’, in 1394 of the Supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever wants to agree to this, I'm looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Call the SPÖ: That I could still experience this!]] [[Federal Minister Bures: I wonder too!]] [[19:13:48]] 9. Point report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the 2011 Green Report of the Federal Government (III-274/1419 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19845	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Doppler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19873	Mr President. High house! I would now like to say something about the Green Report 2011, the report on the situation of the Austrian agriculture and forestry. We are all aware and we must be aware that agriculture is and must remain a fixed and indispensable part of our domestic economy, ladies and gentlemen. The production value of agriculture and forestry rose by 9.1 percent in 2010 to € 8 billion, of which € 6.5 billion came from agriculture and 1.5 from forestry. The number of farms is falling sharply. Of the approximately 187 000 farms, about 30 000 have recently given up and are no longer managing their farms. Very worrying, ladies and gentlemen, is also the development of the miners who, under the most difficult conditions, do their hard work and do no more with their income at Weitem. In 2010, there were well 66 000 mining farms, which were managed, in 2009 it was still a thousand more. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, if the development continues so that every year thousands of farmers, especially miners, give up, the future for our landscape does not look good for our tourism. There is a need to do everything on the part of politics in order to face the death of farmers massively. We liberals call for a fairer distribution of compensation payments. It's not supposed to be like this anymore: The food industry is putting millions of euros in the throats, the farmers, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, one gives a hunger wage in comparison to that. If there is no fair division, ladies and gentlemen, many farmers will be forced to close the barn door forever, and the Green Report remains as a history book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19910	The next item is the speech by Mr Eßl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19931	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Report is an extensive reference work that makes comparisons possible over decades, and I should like to thank you very much for this work. I can thank the employees in the Federal Ministry, including the LBG, but, of course, mainly the farmers who do the work, and especially those who have the data and documents available. In this case, it If we make a comparison with the Green Report, we can, of course, make an assessment of the development, and it is also a basis for agricultural policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] If we compare ourselves with the other countries in Europe, we are actually in a better position in almost all the parameters. And when Mr Doppler talks about farmers dying and about structural change, I have to say: This is much lower in Austria than in all other European countries. A comparison with Bavaria, which is greater than Austria: There are 80 000, 90 000 farmers, in Austria there are twice as many. When you talk about agriculture and forestry, you actually talk about a lot. We are talking about jobs, which in agriculture amount to almost 200 000, in the downstream and downstream areas, it is at least as many, if not twice as many. We're talking about food. Farmers are able to provide food of high quality and sufficient quantity, and the sovereignty of supply and security of supply are certainly two important things for the future that we should take care of. We also talk about a habitat with quality of life, and again our farmers are responsible for having it. I am pleased that all political groups, such as their statements, are actually trying to reach out to the farmers. It is important to me, however, that all act accordingly, and there is not necessarily always a unity to achieve. The objective of the Austrian People's Party is a comprehensive management of rural family farms, and it is necessary for farmers to be able to generate income. It has already been mentioned by Mr Doppler that €8 billion is about value added. More than 50 percent of these go back to the economy, will again invest. I can also confirm that last year’s income development – the 2011 report deals with 2010 – was welcome. There was an increase of 20 percent. However, we also have to say half the objectivity that we have to make a longer-term comparison, because the year 2009 was a very, very bad year. You have to say that. At present, we are at a level that is still capable of improving, which does not come to any other occupations, but which, within agriculture in Europe, is quite in keeping with the comparison. Agricultural prices are important. We will also need direct payments and payments for the Austrian farmers in the future, because we do not have the good production conditions, as they have other European countries. Moreover, we should not give farmers too much bureaucracy, but simple rules should take place in the future more and more. I thank the farmers and farmers, and I believe that we can take note of this report in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e19989	The next item is the speech by Mr Linder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20010	Mr President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! The Green Report really represents an impressive numbering with a lot of information, with a lot of content. Of course, I cannot fully share Mr Eßl's exclusive positive view, and I am even a bit irritated that one of the highest chamber representatives sees this report as positive and only takes out the positive aspects. It's right, plus 20 percent of income sounds good. But let's look a little more at the depth: With this 20 percent increase, we are still below the 2007 income. At a time when everyone says that the inflation rate must be within each income, today we are talking about a result below that of 2007. [[Abg. Eßl: I mentioned that!]] – Yes, but just by the way and not really clearly addressed. You described it so beautifully. The fact is, however, that we are below it. What also irritates me very much is that the gap between the incomes of the traditional valley farmers and that of the miners is still further apart. We should consider whether we continue to have this small-structured agriculture with all its diversity, with land management, or whether we say that the miners and the mountain areas are uninteresting for us. Even if, as you say, we have a reduced number of jobs, it hurts me. If we compare the EU-27 only on 15. The place lies with the income per worker, it also irritates me that you don't keep your finger on it any more and says: It is important to us that we help even more in this area and better assist those affected! The right thing is: Structural change happens, it's going ahead, and yet we can't just go over it and say: Well, in Bavaria there are still fewer farmers, and we want to help them too! If we confess to this, we have to stand by the diversity of the agricultural economy as a whole. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, a bit of annoyance has bothered me with press releases on debt brakes, in which agricultural promotions are already being traded unbelievably as a pledge for exchange for savings at the ÖBB. And I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you really stand with the farmers, and not like you today, Mr Eßl, a report that shows very serious problems, speaks beautifully and tries to avoid the problems. Our farmers didn't deserve to be treated as an exchange object. It is very important that we restrict bureaucracy and that we distribute the existing money differently by setting upper limits. There will be no more money, but a transfer of public funds from the large farms to the small ones to give them more security so that they will remain in agriculture even beyond 2014, could result in us getting a Green Report that will draw a completely positive picture and no longer need to be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20053	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20074	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Report analyses, I think, the strengths and weaknesses of Austrian agriculture. It is particularly positive to note that, as noted in the last report, an income increase of plus 20 percent is given, and it is also positive that the number of organic holdings is increasing, precisely where we would not have expected it to be: [[Abg. Huber: Mr Colleague, that is the level of 2008!]] Up to 75 percent of the organic farms are mining plants. It is also quite clear from the Green Report that differences in income between enterprises of different sizes are still very important. The Green Report also shows negatively that income shears continue to differ between different types of farm. If you find plus 44 percent of your income in market fruit plants and you have minus 4 percent of your income on mining plants in extreme locations, I think that there is a need for action. It is not the type of SPÖ to criticise our colleagues from the ÖVP, agricultural officials, but rather I assume that we may now have the opportunity to take a new path. The SPÖ proposals, which are known to you all, are aimed at introducing new structures and new guidelines for support policy in agriculture. We are at least ready to do so, and I hope that the legislative forces of the two government parties, ÖVP and SPÖ, will be able to get together here and we will find new ways. In any case, I would like to invite you very cordially, and I would be pleased, with colleagues In this respect too, we must make progress. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20111	The next item is the speech by Mr Vock. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20132	My President! Minister! High house! The Green Report is, of course, a very good set of figures, a nice overview. I looked at some of the animal welfare figures that interest me as an animal protection speaker, and I immediately came up with them, Minister, that a few figures are completely wrong. I hope that this is just by chance the numbers I have been looking for, and that this does not go through the whole report like a red thread, that false numbers are always there. For example, I looked at the average number of cattle per holder. That is what the report says about 25.9 bovine animals. I have come to a number of 28.1 for 2 million cattle and 71,000 holders. Much more, however, I noticed that on average 71.1 pigs were spoken of per holder. In the case of 3.1 million pigs and 30,000 holders, it would have been easier to say immediately before PISA – I mean, with the results of the PISA studies, of course, this is more difficult – since a number must come out around 100; exactly it is 101,7 instead of 71. And I think it's a difference whether I have 71 pigs or 100 pigs per holder. This is a much larger operation. And that on average, please! That is why I do not know how far the annual consumption per capita is right. I did not take that into account in the absence of precise figures. It is interesting, however, that it has been almost unchanged for years. We have beef with 18.3 kilograms per head, pork with 56.8 kilograms per head, poultry 20.1 kilograms per head and milk 91.4 kilograms per head per year. Members of my group, Mr Doppler and Mr Linder, have already pointed out that the figures are terrifying as regards the reduction of the number of farmers. The number of cattle farmers declined from 80 161 to 71 563 from 2006 to 2010, so it locked up every tenth farm. The pig farmers were 45 036 in 2006, 30 805 in 2010 – each third farm has been locked. That is why the average number of pigs per holder has also increased significantly. If we say that here – it's about pigs per holder. [[Abg. Huber: What do you mean?]] It is about how many pigs every single farmer has on average, whether he has a small farm with five pigs or a farm with a hundred pigs, Mr Cot. It's easy to explain. If I hear in the discussion on the maintenance of the box, that the ban on the maintenance of the box endangers the pig farmers, I must say: Mr Mi-nister, you are already endangering our pig farmers! Already, each third court is blocked – and this is still before the discussion on the maintenance of the box. That's what I'm asking myself: What to do As a minister, you are actively opposed to this farmer's death? I only notice that, for example, you refuse any discussion with the Minister of Health in the discussion on the maintenance of the box. You do not work for your farmers, and I assume that this is also true in other areas. Minister! I therefore urge you to finally take measures to protect our peasantry. We cannot continue to keep up with EU mass animal farming, which proves the figures presented. Only high-quality production, taking into account animal welfare, warrants higher prices and helps our farmers achieve higher yields.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20178	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20199	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We will vote in favour of the 2011 Green Report. The report is very comprehensive as every year. We will also expressly agree with him because we can actually derive enough from the analyses contained therein, which would be necessary in order to advance Austrian agriculture. Some aspects have been raised by Mr Vock, some of which have already been mentioned by the other speakers. The major challenge is that among the sectors of the economy, agriculture is one of the extremely shrinking sectors. Extremely shrinking! Why? – Because policy is not prepared to put the advantages of a small-scale family farming seriously at the heart of the agricultural policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is, in principle, the analysis that needs to be carried out if we have been following this Green Report for years. Look You're looking at the situation at: 40 per cent of farmers are currently in the main acquisition, i.e. full-time farms and those with a certain degree of acquisition. At 60 percent of all businesses, the manager, the manager of the company, comes home, moves around, goes out into the stable, goes to the field, goes to work, Saturday, Sunday, in the evening. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] This is a reality in Austrian agriculture today! And that's 60 percent of the companies. Even in organic farming, although we have very professional farms, there is no question, and on average even a little larger farms, the situation is not much different. We are undoubtedly European champions, that is true, and the Federal Minister is not wrong. That has certain historical reasons, positive reasons. On the one hand, we have an alpine agriculture, which, of course, is adapted differently to the climate and otherwise adapted to the natural conditions. On the other hand, this is, of course, due to the agricultural policy which, in this case, was the result of the then Vice-Cancellor Riegler, who was the Minister of Agriculture, who at the time had done quite a lot of things about which today the entire Chambers of Agriculture were waving and yelling. At the time, for example, Minister Riegler introduced a fertiliser levy, introduced a maize seed tax and thought of a pesticides tax. All of these are things that are right and are ecological controls, but which are today of the Farmers' chambers do not even think of not even being pre-planned. No, they are currently storming against the so-called greening of the European agricultural policy. That's ridiculous! This is very ridiculous and sad that in agriculture with 20 per cent organic area, the agricultural, agricultural and agricultural representatives know nothing to do but reject the European Union's greening measures in terms of construction and arch. This is weak, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! That is even very weak! And I would really ask you to think about it. If you think through the analysis of the Green Report, then you will see that it is imperative and necessary to transfer our strategies to Europe and enforce them in Europe instead of saying that Europe must by no means make a more ecological agricultural policy, because we could no longer be pioneers. I don't know what fears the ÖVP are riding. The most dramatic thing, however, is the income situation. Of course, the annual results vary. The volatility in the markets must be recognized. This is an extremely complex process, and we need security in the agricultural policy. So we do not need deregulation of agricultural markets in Europe, but we need a sensible, thoughtful market policy that provides a framework for farmers, but also consumers of Food security not only hears in Sunday's speeches and at appropriate fairs and events, but so that this can also be experienced and the farmers also see that they are not the last ones in the chain at the price, not the last ones that bite the dogs. At present, farmers do not receive proper prices. Consumers also cannot understand where the money they spend on food actually goes. It ingests in all possible channels. Mr Auer, we too will and should discuss it in detail during the next discussions of the Committee on Agriculture. On this occasion I would like to tell you in advance that I assume that you will also inherit colleagues Grillitsch in the committee. I hope we will discuss this constructively. On this occasion, I would like to ask for Mr Grillitsch from this place from a very early point of view. Regardless of the political ostriches we have repeatedly fought out, I wish him a quick recovery. [[General condolences.]] Mr Federal Minister, if we take up the challenges for Austrian agriculture, which we are facing, and perhaps look at some point together, then I have to say, for example, with regard to cagery and the problems in the production of food containing eggs, and with regard to labelling issues, I am quite sure with you. It is positive if you take up the discussions we have held here for a long time, namely that eggs in processed products currently do not have to be marked that such products cause a massive dumping for production, namely for those farmers who produce organically, the eggs produced in outdoor farming in Austria, which are positive and acceptable to consumers in themselves. That is why I am submitting the motion for a resolution on labelling requirements for processed eggs. The National Council wants to decide: 'The Federal Government is asked to forward to the National Council a legislative proposal for a decision amending the legal provisions on food labelling in such a way as to provide information on the form of the legisla­tion. must be mandatory in all foods containing egg as an ingredient and in which gastronomy is offered. The Federal Government is also called upon to take all measures in order to take from 1. On 1 January 2012, a strict ban on the import of eggs from those EU Member States which have not yet implemented the prohibition on cages. The Federal Government is also invited to take initiatives at EU level to extend the EU-wide egg labelling obligation on egg-based products of any kind, as well as to promote and strengthen public relations on animal welfare and labelling.” At one of the last meetings of the Council of Ministers for Agriculture, Mr Berlakovich, because the Member States are succinct, has rightly stated that cage farming should actually end with 1. In January 2012, only more cages were allowed, but other Member States have not yet implemented them. Therefore: Give yourself a back! We could support the Minister of State and also the Minister responsible, Stöger, who, of course, needs to negotiate this in detail, because he is of course in charge of this field in Austria in a technical, factual manner. I hope for your support. In this sense, this would be a good opportunity to show that we can speak with a tongue when it comes to really taking the necessary steps with a very clear request so that Austrian agriculture also has a future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20329	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20400	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20421	Mr President. Federal Minister! We are discussing the Green Report 2010 today, and the ÖVP is celebrating itself as the great winner. And the Federal Minister himself celebrates on the grounds that income has risen. Rather, the reality is that: We have an income in 2010 which corresponds to the income of 2008. Let us imagine that some trade union president would announce that the wage increase reached the level of 2008. That's de facto a reduction. And then he goes here and celebrates himself as the great winner. I believe that this will not be the case for a long time, because, Mr Federal Minister, the ÖVP is really a leader in agricultural policy for decades and we already have to create the conditions. Mr President of the Salzburg Chamber of Agriculture has said that this is a reference work for decades. Let's take a look at that! In 1983 the farmer received 1 400 s for a solid meter of wood. Compared to this, a woodworking hour cost 42 s, and for a litre of milk he got 7.50 s. 1983! Today the farmer receives 100 €, i.e. approximately the same as in 1983. For a litre of milk, it is converted to Schilling 5,20, 37 cents. And then politics goes here and says that this is a great success! – This is the ÖVP policy! You can't learn from it either if every year thousands of farmers close the gates when existences are destroyed when the labour market is burdened by them. You don't learn anything from it at all! You are not ready at last to take steps which we have already had many requests that would lead in the right direction. No, you're against it everywhere! And there can only be a concrete demand: The farmer must finally become an entrepreneur, and the farmer must experience a change. It must no longer be an ÖVP or Raiffeisen bitter, but must be an independent entrepreneur who can live from his production. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Besides agricultural production, the guarantee that the population is supplied with fresh, healthy food, the farmer must also be able to produce energy. And the farmer is also responsible for landscape care and civil protection. But no, what's the ÖVP doing? – The ÖVP goes here and demands massive speculations! An example of this: The Österreichische Volksbanken-AG makes an OTS and guarantees every investor 160 percent return on agricultural raw material – it is literally here “guarantee”. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] By the way, Guarantee is a Raiffeisen company, a company of the Raiffeisen group, but it is marketed by Volksbank. That's what it says: Investors can get rich harvest with us! – This is the policy of the ÖVP: pure banking promotion, speculation and logging, and thus a threat to rural areas and farmers! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Only you are to blame for the threat of existence. If we do not finally succeed in increasing production, then agriculture really has a gloomy future ahead of itself. For what is clearly reflected in the Green Report: Today, thanks to the management of the EIA, we import two million live pigs each year and 100 000 bovine animals. We are no longer self-sufficient in the supply of food in Austria, we are no longer able to feed ourselves. That's a fact! But what does the ÖVP do? – The ÖVP promotes the import of genetically contaminated feed, extremely promotes speculation, represented by raiffeisen, replaces people who are familiar with the agricultural policy, so that Raiffeisen gets even more power. All these are steps that farmers will no longer tolerate. And what do you do in Tyrol? – In Tyrol, thousands of private property owners are expropriated – leading by the ÖVP! The ÖVP says there is evidence that the Constitutional Court has taken. Although it is also in the judgment that the ownership relations have never been clarified, the Tyrolean head of state Platter says that these expropriations are carried out on a spot and a dash. The whole thing was created only because of an error, because there was a name confusion. In the past – I don't want to go too far into history now – it has the agriculture- It's the one thing I'm talking about. It has existed long before the first political community. In 1847 it was the Tyrolean peasants who rebelled against the authority and thus acquired the property from the princes. In 1869, the first political community in Tyrol was mentioned by name. – We will also fight against this acidity! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, Finally, it calls for a fair framework so that we can produce in Austria under the same conditions as in the whole of the EU neighbouring country. In Italy, for example, the agricultural diesel is exempt from the mineral oil tax. Finally, take part in our requests, where we call for agriculture to be finally given fair conditions so that it can be mixed in the European market, and make sure that Austria finally becomes Europe's fine food shop! It only depends on whether you continue your blockade policy. Stop it at last! New Mr Farmerbund-Obmann, I hope that we will work together constructively so that agriculture is really brought forward!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20520	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20542	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Huber, Austria is a fine food store! We export more food to Switzerland than we import from Switzerland to Austria, and we export more food to Italy than we import from Italy – both countries known for their high quality and where the Austrian agricultural sector plus the food industry manages the markets successfully. [[Abg. Huber: Because we subsidize it!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today we are discussing 52. Green report, and I am grateful to the farmers who provide data for this, and also to the employees of my home for the careful preparation. It is gratifying that income – and farmers are entrepreneurs – has increased by 20 percent, which also shows the volatility of these incomes. In the previous year, however, there was a minus of 28 percent. Therefore, this plus of income was not compensated for by the years 2007 and 2008, where the income level was a slightly higher. There you can see how changing incomes are and how important it is that there are safety networks. By the way, the costs have increased. There is an increase in feed, seeds and plant protection products, so I do not think anything about what Mr Pirklhuber said, namely that farm resources are taxed, because this would make our farms more competitive, even worse. It is important for farms to be able to produce and therefore it is necessary that they are not burdened by taxes but relieved by them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Moreover, there has always been structural change in agriculture. Mr Vock, I would ask you to interpret the figures correctly. Some statistics speak of numbers, in some statistics of livestock units. I beg you not to confuse this. Livestock units are a standardized value where you can standardize a bovine, a pig, a chicken. I ask for the correct interpretation. The figures of the Green Report are not wrong, but it is also referred to livestock units, and there is another conversion factor. As has already been said: There has always been structural change in agriculture, which has never been disputed by anyone. Interestingly, structural change in the agricultural area is stronger than in the mountain area. But he has halved in comparison to the 1970s. That is to say, the agricultural policy has already had the effect that farms have an income and can continue to operate. But it will also happen in the future that companies conclude that some say they don't want anymore, and that necessarily some are getting bigger because the market conditions are that way. It is therefore important that, as a result of the agricultural reform of the common agricultural policy, it is looked forward to the appropriateness of the framework conditions as from 2014. We had a Council of Agriculture Ministers yesterday, where we discussed individual topics. Mr Pirklhuber, once again: Austria does not criticise the need for the common agricultural policy to become more ecological. On the contrary: We say yes, agricultural policy should become more ecological, just as Austria has been practicing since accession to the EU. We want to continue our path towards organic, sustainable agriculture, and Europe must also follow that path. What we criticize, however, is the design of greening, and there is not Austria alone. Yesterday, this was also an issue of the debate. The Western European countries, the Central and Eastern European countries as well, when greening comes as the Commission has said, will result in an incredible bureaucracy that nobody wants. The farmers reject this and say that there is already too much bureaucracy there. And when reality becomes, no one can control it. This is the main point of criticism, which runs across all political groups at the European level. There is no one against the ecologicalisation of agriculture, but the design is against which one turns. Austria has already made proposals, for example, instead of the individual components of greening, an ecologized basic premium and, and, and. Next important point: There are reports from Brussels that the agricultural policy is all right and that Austria is not losing much. Unfortunately, this is not the case, you have to say quite clearly! There is still a great deal of political struggle, because in the first pillar there is a slight minus of agricultural policy, which is also not acceptable, and in the second pillar it is not yet certain how much money Austria and the individual Member States get – that is, the second pillar with our environmental programme, mining programme, investment and LEADER programme. The rural development programme is at the heart of the Austrian agricultural policy, and the EU offers three variants of how to split the money, and with all these variants, Austria would lose. We don't want to let that happen. I do not want to allow this to happen and I do not want to allow parts of Austria, important parts of the agricultural policy, because we want to continue this path. It must be true that in a state like Austria, which has already been set on ecology since the beginning, it is also honoured and it is not punished. In this interplay we are now. This is an important point, and this must be clearly said to the farmers. We still have a great deal to do here to save the financing of agricultural policy, but also the political design. We need to see that there are no additional conditions here that hinder us in production. We want to continue this path. It is a fact that, despite all the claims that are constantly being made, we have a farming farm, unlike other countries in Europe that have mass animal husbandry in large farms that we do not want. Now to the budget. – Because it was said that there would be a budget exchange – there ÖBB, here agriculture – in the future when it comes to debt brakes, I can only say one thing: Agriculture has shown that it contributes to budget recovery in the last budgets. It was important to me that the programmes for farmers such as the environmental programme and the mining programme are financed, and yet we have made our savings. To the promotions. – In the support of around €15 billion, always quoted by WIFO, agriculture has a share of around 4.5 percent. I emphasize: 4.5 percent of the €15 billion! According to WIFO, the main beneficiaries are health care, transport and public transport. Read the WIFO! I'm concerned that you're talking about everything properly, not building up ideological enemy images where you think you can do something. Most of the money that farmers receive comes directly from the EU. And it was always Austrian policy that we also trigger money from the EU, which is an important point. Finally, because we discussed it yesterday and because it also fits into the current discussion: The EU has issued a ban on cagery for laying hens, now with 1. ==References====External links== Austria has said that we want to be a pioneer in animal welfare, and has with 1. In January 2009, this ban was implemented. Many funding projects – a total of €100 million – have also been invested by farmers to convert. See, only ten countries in the European Union have actually changed, and 17 countries, Central, Eastern and Western, have not. So, and now is the point of living in a free market and of course the eggs can be traded everywhere. There was yesterday an attempt by many European countries that did not change to get exceptions here. I have strictly opposed it, because EU law must apply, and with 1. That is why January 2012 is to be implemented. Why do I say that? – Because we are currently discussing the piglets' basket and a similar system is being discussed. If we abolish these systems in Austria, we not only have a disadvantage in production, but we also get pigmeat from parts of Europe that do not change. That is why I am fighting against it and expect us to agree on a solution where, over the years, we are developing a new set-up system. That is what agriculture has offered. But I am not in favour of prohibiting these systems, but the rest of the European Union does not do it and do the business because it exports pigmeat to us. I would also like to make it clear: I have never refused these negotiations, I have negotiated with Mr Stöger – and he knows that too, and he confirms it – several times, we have not yet met. The pig sector has also made offers to meet and take a common path. I hope that will come to a good end. The cage-keeping of the laying hens is a warning example: This is EU law in one month, and yet 17 states have not implemented it. We must not make the same mistake in the piglets' basket: that we make one-sided concessions, and the others do the business.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20606	Next, Mr Praßl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20628	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's agriculture improved in 2010 because it was better to thank God. We have had difficulties in the years before, but the essential thing is that agriculture depends on what improvements we should make, which improvements we should make. I can only say one thing if I look at the districts of Feldbach, Radkersburg and Fürstenfeld: There are 88 municipalities there, and there are almost 10,000 farms there. And when you hear that so many farms close, I can only say one thing: We had farms with 2 hectares, 3 hectares, and now these farms have been assembled. Not the boy took over because he had a different profession, but the reason has been leased, and this has made an improvement. Why do I highlight these three districts? – In these three districts around 60 different products are grown. Why do the farmers grow this? - Because consumers want it. Thank God there are so good consumers who say this and that is very important to us, that we want. And the farmers are building this, and they can also make it very well and develop it further. Now to what I have heard here, namely agriculture depends on the EIA and, and,. – Agriculture is not dependent on the EIA alone, but we are very glad that the EIA is there and that it is in favour of agriculture. Thank God! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] And to the training, I would like to say the following: In my districts we have very good products, and we also have very good training in the field of agriculture, for example in Hatzendorf. Students from all over Austria come to Hatzendorf and can be trained there. Thank God they are well trained and can continue training. The relationship with other compatriots is also important. It was once said that, after these are Hungary, there is no need to speak, the danger is there. – For God's sake, this is no danger! If I go to Szombathely or to Körmend or St. Gotthard, I experience that they want to discuss with us what we can improve what we can do differently. And that's very, very good. I have also taken along many students, and we have had good discussions there about the future of agriculture. This is a good thing for agriculture, and in the end it does well for consumers in Austria. In this sense I say: Good for agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20674	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20695	Mr President. Minister! We are also in favour of income security, which is no question at all. We also think it is good that the report shows that incomes have increased, knowing that they are still at a relatively low level. However, we are also in favour of the fact that incomes should rise quite the same way and that there are no differences in agricultural holdings, not to mention that 80 percent of agricultural incomes are based on subsidies. That's why you just have to see that the distribution is true that the distribution is getting fairer. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Huber.]] That does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we are against funding. We are not against compensatory payments, as ÖVP colleagues always say, we recognise the benefits of farmers, of course, because we also know about the importance of caring for our cultural landscape, which is a very important asset in Austria. We also know the importance of high-quality food, and that is why we also appreciate the valuable work of farmers. But what we want is, as already mentioned, a fairer distribution of resources, and in our view there is still much to be done, Mr Minister. And because you address policy areas: It is precisely the distribution justice that is a very, very important political field of action, where one simply has to act, namely, within Austrian, but also at European level. You all know the numbers: 35 percent of the companies receive around 6 percent of the funding, with only €2 083, and 3 percent of the companies at the top receive 17 percent of the funding, where the funding amount is €78 000. That's not fair! [[Abg. Eßl: What kind of promotion is this?]] A compensatory payment; I have already said it before, Mr Eßl. And you have to imagine: 25 percent of the largest farms in the EU receive around 74 percent of the funding! I mean, Minister, there's plenty of political action there. From our point of view, this is simply not fair. We are in favour of there being upper limits, we are in favour of modulation, and we are also in favour of including the working time model in direct payments. If the new common agricultural policy speaks of ceilings, I would like to remind you, Mr Minister, that despite everything, it is simply necessary to benefit from the national scope, because our agriculture is structured differently from the large industrial agriculture in many European countries. These upper limits, which are now envisaged, would affect only 17 farms in Austria, and therefore, I am convinced, one simply has to use the national scope a bit. This, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is really not a class struggle, but it is simply a question of distribution justice. Although the OECD recognises many progress in agricultural policy, the OECD has written that it is such that the rich farmers are still being supported most. That cannot be in your sense, Mr Minister, and that is certainly not in our sense either. I see the CAP discussion as a real great opportunity for us to bring about a change in support policy, in the agricultural policy. Finally, Mr Minister, I would also like to remind you of the global responsibility: There is a right to food for all people, and that should also be included in the CAP discussion!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20738	Next, Mr Grosz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20759	High house! When the Green Report is discussed, the annual Office of Fine Speech takes place especially at the Austrian People's Party, where it once again completely negates the reality in agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, not only when reading this Green Report, but also in discussions with many farmers in Austria, especially farmers in Styria, I am not going to get the impression – and it is also evident in the figures of the Green Report – that the death of farmers is unfortunately continuing. More and more farmers in Austria are blocking, because they no longer see a chance of living, no chance of survival in this essential factor of agriculture. More and more farmers complain about lower incomes, complain about the same incomes – by the way also documented in the Green Report now – as honourable Member Huber also predicted – Schilling/Euro conversions since 1983. Same income, less acquisition – also documented here. This is not an invention, but is black on white in this Green Report. And the farmers complain that they are increasingly being robbed of rural existence in this country. That is – once again – no invention of the Austrian... Excuse me, the BZÖ – I would have said now, the Austrian People's Party. They are at best the culprits, but not the inventors. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is not an invention of the BZÖ, but the sad facts of our Austrian agriculture are documented. And more and more people, including in agriculture, live on the substance to secure daily income. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we in the Austrian nutrition system are widely promoting and pardoning the use of artificial cheeses and in very many products on the domestic shelves and wholesale chains of artificial cheeses, and we are rightly also criticizing this in very many debates, but on the other hand, Austrian farmers are forced to pour away the valuable milk produced so that artificial cheese continues to take place, this is the perversion of your agricultural policy and is the betrayal of the farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schultes]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This will not change as long as you only see agriculture in Austria as an exercise field of your personal vanity by the ÖVP. Mr Auer, with all due respect, but if you are the hope of the future of the Austrian farmers, I do not want to know what the misery there is; in short. And as long as you are the hope of the future of the Austrian farmers and thus have collected the eleventh side job – I watch you all day long, you sit here like a well-washed Christian tree, pre-Christmas. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now you are pleased that the 15. Function ball on your fir branch hangs. But as long as Austria's agriculture is only an exercisive field of the intrigues of the Austrian People's Party, where a few days ago the president of the Federal Farmers' Party had been smuggled into a political guild murder to make Mr Auer the president, just so that he could not follow Mr. Konrad in the Raiffeisen Group – that is the real reason, ladies and gentlemen, have you still not heard that? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Auer is sitting here because Mr Konrad believes that he still wants to serve as Director-General of the Raiffeisenskasse for three years, and he knows exactly when his competitor from the Upper Austrian Raiffeisenbank Auer is your Klubobmann deputy, he cannot be Director-General of the Raiffeisenbank. For this purpose, the Federal President Grillitsch had to soften, he was sent to the hospital – or he was so added that he was left with nothing else, even in health, that he was sitting in the hospital now, only to ensure that the ÖVP's post and plan games were carried out again. [[Abg. Head: that's incredible! Shame! Shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you really believe that in Austria you should be given the fate of farmers?- Oh, my God! You who deal with your own party colleagues and take care of the political drug murder! Yes, you think there is a farmer, just one... – “Mies Creature” is, I think, relatively clear. [[Abg. Head: Always only personal interruptions! You're a weird creature!]] ‘Mies Creature’, this call by the honourable Member Kopf is relatively clear for a call for order. I think we agree. And you really believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the fate of farmers is being put in your hands? - No, I'm sure not! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The only thing you have to do with agriculture is that you seem to be a political mushroom breeder: First spread out your seed, then throw a little dung on it when a white mushroom stands out somewhere, then immediately the head is cut off, but only if a successor, who is at least over 100 years old, is ready to take the function of the other. This is not an agricultural policy! And this is once again a shame on today's report on the Green Report, namely the proceedings within the former peasant party and now purely functional party ÖVP. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a herb-and-rove speech that you keep there!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20860	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I can't call because now something is being claimed to give an order call if I haven't heard it. The only one I heard he used the word “creature” was Deputies Grosz. But I'm going to let the record come to me, and we're going to check it out and see how the – A confession? . Then this is not enough, and we are saving Parliament's management a lot of work, namely to update the protocol on this point. [[Abg. Head: Mr President, I confess!]] [[Abg. Grosz: “Mies Creature” it was!]] [[Abg. Head: I value “muss”, on “mice creature”!]] [[Further calls.]] For the name "mies Creature" in the direction of Mr Grosz, I would like to make a point of order to the honourable Member's head. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: 2 000 €!]] The next speaker was Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e20949	Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Grosz, after your speech, I have only one question left: For whom are you the hope of the future in this country? [[Ironic hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That was now a so-called Sickerwitz!]] But now to the Green Report: The society places a wide range of requirements on the farmers. It expects safe food production in sufficient quality and quantity, the maintenance of the cultural landscape and conservation of natural resources soil, water and air as well as the provision of renewable energies in a sustainable form. The challenges and tasks are increasing, of course. We have a loss of land in agriculture by cultivation, by the construction of infrastructure, which is, of course, necessary. We also have the requirement to fulfil a contract nature protection, Natura 2000, biodiversity measures, which, of course, is all necessary and has its rights, that is clear. However, we also have the highest standards in animal welfare and environmental protection. We in Austria have a pioneering role to play, as honourable Member Pirklhuber has already mentioned today, in the ban on cages, which we have already implemented since 2009. Some countries are there in implementation from 2012 onwards. We can support the request you have made there over long distances. There are already several requests from us that go in the direction to mark the processing industry in the gastronomy, namely where it comes from. We could also vote in favour of this request, but there is still a need to vote on the legal framework and legal possibilities in the area of the strict import ban. That is why we are not going to agree today, but we are, of course, open to further discussions for a joint request. In this context, we also need our Minister for Consumer Protection. Minister Stöger is very much required on the issue of labelling. There has already been enough talk about the loss of income, but one thing I must say: The rural development programme has always been a good instrument for paying and paying off services to our farmers who have not been paid off from the market. And this program has been very well accepted in the past. For example, at organic farmers in 2010, we had a 4 percent increase in the number of farms, and the environmental programme was still sufficiently accepted by conventional farms. We are going a clear way, there is a run towards greening agriculture in Austria, and of course we want to continue it in a common agricultural policy from 2013. It is therefore also a question of budget debates to discuss the co-financing of the measures that we need in the second pillar. Finally, I would just like to say one more thing: The last thing that our farmers need is the envy debates under the cover of a debate on justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: No one has created envy!]] When it comes to claims which go towards the taxation of substances, which clearly goes towards expropriation, it is necessary to prevent and deny their fulfilment. [[New call of the abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Finally, I would like to say: Our farmers need the support of all the political forces in order to be prepared again to meet consumers' requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21025	Mr Grosz, for the accusation made in the context of his speech on ÖVP, the ÖVP carries out “political drug murder” on the party colleague Grillitsch, I also call for an order. [[Abg. Grosz: But this is the truth!]] [[Abg. Head: It's mine too!]] The next speaker was Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21075	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Green Report makes it clear to the Expression that the funding is very uneven if the honourable Member does not want to hear it. Large farms with a lot of space receive a lot of money, but small businesses only have little. For example, almost half of the enterprises together account for only 10 per cent of the funds, while 35 per cent of the enterprises in the lower funding area receive only €2,083 per holding and only 6 per cent of the funding. 3 per cent of the companies at the top manage 17 per cent of all funding, an average of € 78 000 per operation. Ladies and gentlemen, in a study, 50 percent of the market organisation premiums in Austria were re-distributed to the farms according to the standard working time requirements. This redistribution would benefit 66 percent of the farms in Austria, in particular farms with a high labour force, i.e. dairy farms and/or mining farms. Small and medium-sized farms would, on average, lose direct payments and thus income, market-fruit farms and large farmers. By the way: A working time model is already being used in agricultural accident insurance in Germany. We don't want to promote millionaires. Only those farms are to receive premiums that actually and currently manage land. This would also allow the preservation of smaller and regional agricultural structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21117	Next speaker: Mr Auer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21138	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mr Grosz, for being so honoured with regard to the hope for the future. I remember the start of an election campaign and a promise made by Mr Grosz in Styria that he would relinquish his mandate if the land day remained unattainable for him. Obviously there were They're not the hope of the future for the Steermarker. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And not only did he break his promise to the future. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen! Besides, I can calm him down: Mr Konrad is not the Director-General of any Raiffeisenbank, but he is the Advocate-General – so that it is clarified. Perhaps we can keep the operational and the other areas apart. But wanting to understand that might be a bit difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, it is true to block a certain number of farms every day in Austria. That's right. But you should also say why. I'm just telling you one example from my district: This district has a population of about 12,000 in almost 20 years. How much space was used for residential construction, road construction, railway construction and so on, that should also be said. Every day, 24 hectares are demonstrated in Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's where you need the Soil Protection Act!]] And then you always pretend that this is the agricultural policy! – Let us be glad that many people are able to build their own homes because this also guarantees value added and security, ladies and gentlemen! It is also admitted that larger farms, Mrs Schönpass, receive much more money than small businesses or smaller farms. I could ask the opposite question, and I believe that the Voest or another large company in Austria is getting even more money – whether for development, research or other areas – than a small village forge. I know the numbers, Mr. Keck. Therefore, one should not pretend to be just in agriculture. In principle, this Green Report is very positive at first glance, at second glance it is confirmed that despite the increase in income, the losses of the two previous years could not be recovered, but – and that is clearly said – I congratulate Mr Berlakovich on his success, also in the European concert. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Huber]] They can be seen! Let us be proud of the achievements of the Austrian farmers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They've achieved a lot! Austria is a pioneer in many areas. One more word to you, Mr Vock, because You have also made your position so clear today as to the debate on the piglets' basket and so on. I would recommend the following: Last week, the home community of the very valued former colleague and today's council Haimbuchner of the Hausruckviertler peasant tribe took place. There was Mr Graf, Council of the Agricultural Chambers from Upper Austria – who will soon be here – and I am told – and he has strongly criticized the discussion about the piglets' basket. I would ask you to agree with your party colleague. This will read to you the Levites because from practice is something different than you present here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Agriculture is a country economy, and we have to face the international market conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vock]] No one takes it into account. Compare market reports from Germany, from other European countries! When market prices are reduced, we have the same effects to bear. It is not true that farmers do not want to or do not understand animal welfare. I'll invite you, my Ladies and gentlemen: On the 22nd of this month, next week, we visit some Upper Austrian farms – I thank those who have already reported – in order not to experience the practice with the “evil” politicians, but with the farmers on the ground and see the conditions under which they have to operate. All in all, since I may have to bear a little more responsibility for agriculture in the future, I invite the agricultural speakers of all political groups to a constructive discussion. I would like to change some things, including a little more time in the Committee on Agriculture. Finally, no one will be interested in who has done something, but whether we can do something for the farmers as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21206	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21227	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Dear new agricultural speaker of the ÖVP, thank you very much for the invitation! As an agricultural spokesman for the FPÖ, I would just like to say one thing: I am somewhat disappointed that neither the Minister nor you as a new agricultural speaker here on the Green Report express a word of thanks to Mr Grillitsch, who has been sitting here for ten years. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Also from our side – you hear, he is in the hospital – from this place good improvement! If I have this experience here – no one member of the ÖVP has thanked him here at the speaker's desk for his services; we too and Mr Grillitsch have had different views, but we have the proponent and we thank ourselves for the good cooperation – then I also understand why he has now easily and perhaps also gladly resigned, because if you look at what you have done with him in the last 14 days, you simply have to call it contemptful. At the top, the Member of Parliament sits jewelry beater, who, under the protection of the Lower Austrian ÖVP under her cover, targeted in a Low Austrian daily newspaper, in the “Nelderreichische Nachrichten” and in the “Tyrol daily” articles against Fritz Grillitsch. And now I particularly condemn him not having the courage to assume responsibility, but sending you, Mr Auer, as new agricultural spokesperson. This is not a reputation for the Member of Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: What are you worried about?]] - Just wait, you can get out! [[Abg. Grosz: I'd rather be a Hooligan before I'm human!]] Another word about Thilo Sarrazin: To take Thilo Sarrazin as a pretext to shoot Fritz Grillitsch intern, that is especially self-willing. Thilo Sarrazin is a well-known social democrat, and Fritz Grillitsch has not even taken over the positions of Thilo Sarrazin, he has just invited him to the Farmers' Federation – and I think that at hardly any Farmers' Federation event there were as many people as he invited the Thilo Sarrazin! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You should have congratulated Grillitsch for opening up something to the Farmers' Federation and inviting someone who is extremely popular in Germany and who brings things to the point, even if you can't share all the positions. But he has also made the peasantry interesting – and for that he is shot down by you. This is anything but understandable and anything but correct, as has been done. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] But now, in principle, the Green Report we are discussing today. We will not vote for the Green Report because it does not give any prospects or recommendations or advice. And those recommendations – I am correcting myself – which he gives have been dealt with in the §-7 Commission and are listed in the Green Report. I am now reading what the § 7 Commission makes of recommendations, which are all very, very valuable, but which do not concern the biggest problems of agriculture. First recommendation: Increased access of farmers to women-specific education programmes. – We can absolutely sign this recommendation. Secondly, Promote equality between men and women in rural areas. – to support absolutely. Thirdly, Recommendation on equal opportunities in rural areas. These are the three recommendations in the Green Report. That can be, please, not the work of the §-7 Commission! – No word about the progressive structural change in agriculture! Since 1999, there have been 30,000 holdings that have locked up! And, Mr Auer, that is not just to be justified by the sale of land alone, that is an economic problem in agriculture. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Also!]] - Yes, too. There is no recommendation in the Green Report that we should focus on the price of agricultural products. That would be the most important thing to finally get farmers out of this support system and to give them freedom again, because they are currently dependent on the will of agricultural policy, agricultural policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is also no mention in the Green Report of the debate on food labelling which has become intolerable. Here again I ask the Minister for Agriculture to agree with the Minister for Health in the interests of farmers. No word can be found in the green Report also on the expiry of milk quotas and the consequences for farmers. We demand compensation for those farmers who have invested in the milk quota, because what is happening now – that many farmers who have invested in the milk quota now receive nothing for it – that is simply theft on farm property! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: So it is!]] No word on the absolutely necessary ceilings of support, on a distribution right in the agricultural policy. We know that the majority of the funding still goes to the administration, public bodies, commercial and industrial enterprises and not to the active farmer. We demand that the agricultural money comes to the farmers and does not flow into Mateschitz-Sponsoring, not into the Pago fruit juice, not what do I know where. Here much too much money is given in far too few farms, and the small farms actually get far too little. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A word about bureaucracy: It would be interesting once if the Green Report were to draw up how much has changed over the last ten years the number of hours spent by the farmers on the computer, on the telephone with the AMA, at meetings at the Chamber of Agriculture or at national governments to deal with their requests for funding. There are no statistics on this. Such statistics should be disillusioning because everyone who is active in agriculture knows how much time he spends on this whole set of agricultural policies that are currently producing. In the end, the Green Report does not contain any recommendation on how farmers' social security is to continue. Here we have a payer on more than 1.2 pensioners. No one knows how the financing in accident insurance will continue after 2013. For all these reasons – and this list could still be continued – we will not give the Green Report the consent. One thing I would like to address today. It has already been discussed in your club, and here you can prove, especially the federal farmers among you, that you are working in the interests of agriculture, because: ==References====External links== You can change that with your consent. For those who are not so familiar with the matter: ==References====External links== July amended, and we want a return of this driving licence law to its original state. In this regard, we have prepared the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I expect at least the EIAs to consider and at least to act in the interests of farmers in this natural vote that we are calling for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21396	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21453	I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a request from 20 Members for a roll-call vote. We shall therefore proceed in this way. As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Gäßner to speak. 4 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21477	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The crocodile tears that follow BZÖ and FPÖ today Mr Grillitsch are really more than strange. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why? Why do you mean that?]] As far as I am aware, Mr Grillitsch is still a member of the House, will be present at our meetings both here and in the Committee on Agriculture, and then you will be able to tell him personally how much he is missing from you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I wish him from this point of view, if he has been attacked by health, soon and good recovery. [[It was in favour of SPÖ as well as of representatives of ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It is a pity that such a valuable set of figures as this Green Report is only for a relatively short period of time and always at a later stage of the day. It would be here, and this has already been seen in the discussion, to discuss very, very many points. Perhaps we are able to deal with the Green Report a little longer and more in-depth. I thank all those who have worked on it. It is a good and essential basis for employment with agriculture, which is known to concern everyone – and not so, as Mr Praßl said, only the EIA. Agriculture is all our concern, I would say. Mr Pirklhuber, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). It would be good if we could discuss these applications in advance and perhaps come to a joint conclusion. So bring him in, and now he will certainly be rejected again. The same applies to Mr Jannach's request for a driving licence law. This is a very complicated matter. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] We will certainly not decide with you today. But to remember, Mr Jannach: A construction worker who also has to change his vehicle three times a day is obliged to insert the driver's license. - Well, it's not that simple. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would be, as has been said, to say so many things about it. Mr Auer, I look forward to working together in the future. Only: You have already said for the second time as an example for the reasons of the farmer's death, so that so many are less: because so much is being installed. . I hear from farmers who stop their farm that it is difficult for them to be able to lease the agricultural land at all. So it's not on the surfaces primarily. But, well, we'll be able to talk about it in detail. Mr Jannach also mentioned that the §-7 Commission had only three recommendations. - That's not true. The §-7 Commission is doing excellent work, and there were 16 applications. Mr Minister, I would suggest that in the future the rejected requests are also contained in the Green Report so that we can discuss them here in the House too. That would be important, I think. Whatever I would suggest, Mr Minister, and perhaps this can be set up, that is to say, in the next Green Report, what actually happened to the recommendations of the § 7 Commission. Working there, I don't know now how many people, there are good recommendations, but we don't know if they're being implemented or not. This should also be mentioned in the Green Report. Federal Minister! In the context of the common agricultural policy and the negotiations on this matter, you said that this would be a political struggle. We would like to fight with you if you informed us a little more, and that's exactly why I ask you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21539	Mr Pirklhuber has spoken a second time. If you wish, 2 minutes of speaking time will be set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21560	Mr President. Mr Gaßner, who said that the request for the labelling requirement for processed eggs had been submitted in the short term. Mr Gaßner! An almost verbatim request has already been filed in 2009. It was discussed here in this House, and at that time there was only a voluntary label. At European level, the Minister has now strongly criticised the soundness of the other Member States. I find that correct and correct. It would only be logical for us to give the appropriate back cover and take measures to ensure that eggs that do not comply with our standards are no longer processed in Austria and a labelling requirement is introduced. This is in line with the motion for a resolution that we have tabled. You don't have to think about it for two years now, you can vote on it today. On the subject of driving licences, tabled by Mr Jannach, I say clearly: It's really a comedy playing there, but unfortunately a bad comedy. Farmers have to change their daily work around their farm from the car to the tractor, and they have to take the driver's license every time, perhaps in work gloves and so on, but you know the reality in agriculture. - That's ridiculous! If a farmer is stopped in the vicinity of his farm, it is reasonable that the authorities go with him to the next vehicle and then check if the driver's licence and the corresponding approval are available. Ladies and gentlemen! This too is a request on which we can vote immediately today. We will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21594	No one has been reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-274 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, on labelling requirements for processed eggs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues, on the non-commissioning obligation of the driver's licence for tractors of tractors, motor vehicles and self-driving working machines on journeys not exceeding 10 kilometres from the permanent location of the vehicle. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name 'Yes', which are the grey ballots, or 'No', which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of Mr Jannach's request to vote in favour of the 'Yes' vote, those who vote against to cast 'No' vote. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the author, Mrs Lohfeyer, to begin with the name call. Mr Jakob Auer will replace them later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21698	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21729	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: Members cast: 158, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 58, No votes: 100. The application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brunner Christiane; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kunasek; noise, lights, linden, list; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Inland waterways; Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Invertebrates; Fazekas, Franz, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser; Haberzettl, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Peter, Muchitsch, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pendl, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Worm. [[20:43:51]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 46, 75, 77 to 97, 99 to 103, 105 to 111, 114 to 116, 118 to 120, 122 and 123 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 26, 27, 30 and 31 (1420 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21927	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Winter has spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21954	Mr President. High house! To be allowed to join the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives in this pult is really always a great pleasure, because the members of this Committee are aware that they are a democratically important committee and that citizens can approach it directly with their demands, requests, wishes and complaints. This is also an attempt in this Committee to expand the opportunities for citizens' participation and, as far as possible, to make changes in the context and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. One of these innovations, which entered into force only before the last Committee meeting, is the possibility of electronic consent to petitions and citizens' initiatives. This is – and this has been done to date – very well accepted by the people, and this is also a measure of approval that the work of this committee is being done very well. A second issue, a second one, was that we held a hearing at the last Committee meeting, which, as you have seen, included many items on the agenda, namely 60. These 60 agenda items have largely been derived from the topic of nuclear or nuclear energy, and there has also been mentioned hearing on this subject. Ten of these agenda items have only been taken note of this time – I must say – and seven have been allocated to various committees and the rest will be provided with opinions from the respective ministries. On the one hand, this hearing was about the global nuclear exodus, initiated by the Anti-Atom Initiative of the Global Environment Organisation 2000. They have collected 700 000 signatures, of course also the signatures from the communities from all over Austria, which have joined this nuclear desire. It was interesting that all the members of this committee could do so. It was possible that nuclear power could not be controlled and therefore everything must be done to prevent this risk from becoming too big or to limit it as much as possible and to get out of nuclear energy. Greenpeace was also convinced that the ban on nuclear power significantly increases the risk to investors for new nuclear reactors and would be a feasible instrument of the Federal Government. The Austrian municipal government took the view that its energy-saving measures also contributed significantly to energy efficiency, thus making it a good advice on the exit of nuclear energy. In principle, I would like to say that there has been a petition to which I would like to address briefly, namely the petition of our colleague Norbert Hofer, which concerns the provision of new jobs for disabled people. Unfortunately, this petition was brought to the attention – and for me this is a funeral of the first class.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e21999	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22021	Mr President. High house! This report on petitions and citizens' initiatives again contains a variety of topics in the fields of environment, transport, health and education. Many petitions and citizens' initiatives have been forwarded to the relevant specialist committees for content processing. 28 petitions on the issue of global nuclear decommissioning alone have been allocated to the Environment Committee for intensive employment. As mentioned earlier, there was a hearing at the last committee meeting with representatives of environmental organisations such as Global 2000, Greenpeace and the Atomstop initiative as well as representatives of the Austrian Municipal Federation, from various ministries or the BKA. There was just a broad front against the use of nuclear power, because it can run out of the row at any time. Already before the summer, numerous municipalities from different federal states had brought their petitions for global and Europe-wide nuclear exodus to the Global 2000 petition. Above all, the great dangers posed by the power plants were once again made clear in the hearing. Disasters are unforeseen in connection with nuclear power plants and the dangers are as over-dimensional as we were again faced with the disaster in Fukushima. All the more it is necessary to place emphasis on renewable energy sources and to work against the fact that, for example, new nuclear waste storage sites are also being built near the Austrian border. Since October, all petitions and citizens' initiatives have been supported online via the Parliament's side, and I would like to point out this folder and ask all colleagues in the House to draw sufficient attention to it. [[The speaker gave a paper entitled "Electronic consent to petitions and citizens' initiatives. New opportunities for citizens’ participation]] On the home page of the Parliament's homepage, a mouse-click on the thumb-high button will make it easy to see the list of all petitions and citizens' initiatives under negotiation and to give them an agreement. For young people in particular, I find this online possibility very important as part of our parliamentary system. They exchange over social networks and use the computer as a everyday medium, and through this form of online consent, think I, can succeed that the discussion with politics can gain interest. Engaged people are thus offered important and good opportunities to participate in political processes of direct democracy. It is a common interest in the Committee on Petitions to deal with these initiatives in an appreciative way and to involve them effectively in the political process. At this point, I would like to express my warm thanks to the Parliament's Directorate for Good Cooperation on this electronic agreement and also to President Prammer for her commitment to publish strongly supported citizens at regular intervals, similar to the Annual Report of the German Bundestag.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22075	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22102	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lohmeyer already has this very nice and – apologise, of course, Lohfeyer! [[Call the SPÖ:Lohfeyer!]] That's how you're doing: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have now come into my mind. The colleague Lohfeyer has already presented this very, very precise and clear: It is a common success for greater civil participation in Parliament. Many colleagues have probably not yet noticed this. I would also like to confirm this and to support it once again: Look at this! This online support, without advertising about it, has soon led some 3,000 citizens to support an introduced petition in the context of this procedure in addition to electronic support. This is an excellent opportunity for us Members to see whether these concerns are very sectoral or isolated, or whether there is really a regional claim or, so to speak, a local impetus, which, of course, as Members of this House, we can see quite differently or more strongly, and which we can also pay more attention to in the further proceedings of the resolution. A few more on the thematic fields. – Atom exit: This is certainly the nail sample after Fukushima, the nail sample for the Federal Government, the nail sample finally also for us here in Parliament, which measures, what decisions there are, so to speak, to give nuclear current imports to Austria, become completely free of nuclear current. This is the question of the feasibility, the possibilities of implementation. We need to see one thing: If communities have so far introduced such resolutions, they have mostly been seen in the clubs, but have not been dealt with in the process in Parliament. Next: It is good and right that when parishioners, when regional councils meet together on such petitions and so to speak, try to deal with them to Parliament, we try to treat them in the Committee on Petitions, and, as we have already done, in several hearings on various topics – the last of which is now on the nuclear exodus – the interested public, in particular those people and ourselves in the process with the opinions of the Ministries themselves, give us an opportunity to take a deeper look at them and seriously try to make more out of these initiatives than just the usual swinging and through in the house. A thank you to the President of the National Council: She always supported us. I also remember our trip: For more than a year and a half it has been that we have been in the German Bundestag from the Committee on Petitions and have seen how well this takes place. So my request to It is as follows: We should continue, including in the Rules of Procedure debate, and try to further develop this instrument of online support into a public petition. You'll see one thing: Now we have a short time in which the citizens can support it, that is, until it has been dealt with in the committee. This is very different, so to speak, depending on the number of committees per year, and it will depend on whether we can optimize here. You will see that after half a year, and you will have to see what we can do to make this instrument even better and more transparent for citizens. And we will certainly have to evaluate this, as far as the results are concerned. In particular: But why can we still not give our approval to the collection report? – Because some allocations have not happened from our point of view. In fact, it makes sense to refer petitions, which clearly belong to a committee in substance and content, to them. For example, there is the freedom of genetic engineering: We have put in a petition for non-genotechnic feeding. There is a regulation at European level that can be changed, there are discussions which are held anyway, also in the Committee on Agriculture. They could therefore be assigned to the Committee on Agriculture. Or the petition “Road away with the hospital fee for children” by my colleagues Ollinger and Treasure – they supported more than 800 people. We would have wished that it would have been allocated to the Health Committee for further treatment, because there would have been a further discussion in the context of a broader discussion. So these are things we, I think, can still improve, because if a petition is really done, we can also take note of them, but if points are still open, then we should assign them to the committee. That's our view. I would therefore ask that we continue and jointly consider this constructive work, also in the context of the debate on the Rules of Procedure, which changes are possible in the near future. And I am convinced that we should also agree in the political groups and carry these concerns from the Committee on Petitions to the political groups and then to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22136	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22157	Mr President. The very demanding and also very interesting hearing on nuclear exodus has already been addressed by my previous speakers. They were the invited experts, also The officials of the Ministries have not only informed us very well, but they have also informed us about nuclear technology and the dangers associated with it very objectively – always seen against the background of Fukushima. Of course, we are also convinced that this issue will be dealt with very prominently in the Committee on the Environment. As a special success, this has already been stressed, of course, the work of the Committee is also to be described, and I also thank the President for his support, especially in the implementation of online support, which was very well accepted. I have, of course, taken the opportunity and have already looked into what petitions were particularly supported. The petition on “The prohibition of boxing stalls in pig farming” has experienced many support. I also noticed that many supporters are Viennans, who certainly only have very theoretical access to pig farming. Let me therefore address an e-mail that has recently reached me, namely a farmer, that is, a woman who speaks out of practice – today the Green Report has already mentioned the small-farm family farming. That's what the women are working with, and they know exactly what it's all about. The farmer writes in this e-mail that she already had piglets in groups in her farm, but that a village helper, who was supposed to relieve her during pregnancy in the farm, was bitten by a mother's sow and so badly injured that she had to go into sick condition, that then the farmer herself as a high-pregnant had to do the barn work again and that she was badly attacked by a breeding sow while missing the piglets, i.e. by a mother's sow. Just because a little piggy screamed, it went very aggressive on her and threw her to the ground. She could not defend herself by herself to this mother's sow, but her husband heard her cry and could come to her help. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Of course she asks: Where does this discussion of human rights remain? Should we not also consider the safety and consider this side of the medal in the course of the negotiations for the box stands or, in other words, the piglets protection baskets? I would also like to thank Fritz Grillitsch, who has always supported the interests of the farmers, and of course also wish him that he can be back in our middle soon and also best health! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as by Mr Schenk and Mr Weninger.]] I would like to point out once again that we of course have to deal with a very comprehensive collection report today. It has also been mentioned by my previous speakers here that many issues in all their diversity come to the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, so that it is the concerns of the citizens who are working on us in this committee and who, of course, deserve to continue to be cared for by us as much as possible. This is what we are doing in this committee. I also think that further development is necessary and possible, and I am looking forward to good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22225	Mrs Mühlberghuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22248	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague Susanne Winter has already reported in detail on the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives and also on the hearing on nuclear exodus. I would like to address a citizens' initiative and a petition. The Citizens' Initiative 27 is an extra-party citizens' initiative to complement the § 46 School Organisation Act and has been supported by more than 7,100 signatures. The Signatories of this Citizens' Initiative believe that the possibility of resuming a vocational school degree significantly increases the opportunity of trainees for a positive completion of the course examination and thus leads not only to the personal improvement of the individual's economic and social situation, but also to an important contribution to the improvement of quality throughout the Austrian economy. . This Citizens' Initiative was unanimously allocated to the Education Committee in the Committee. Now to the petition 96, whose title is “Weg with the hospital fee for children”. – This petition was supported by 848 people, and it is about hospital retention for co-insured children under 18 years of age. These are different from federal to federal and cost parents between 15 and 17,30 € per day. And if a parent accompanies his child while staying in the hospital, there are additional costs. In Lower Austria, an accompanying person costs a child from the first year of life to the complete 14th. ==References====External links== Age 65 € per day. In a statement from the Federal Minister for Health, we were informed that, in the matter of this legitimate concern, he had already approached the country's health politicians in December 2010 on the question of whether a removal of the cost contribution for children would be possible. And the opinion goes on to say that this can only be done in the course of the next financial compensatory negotiations. – This important topic of hospital costs has also been discussed and discussed several times in the Health Committee and discussed here in May 2010. Ladies and gentlemen! For young families a hospital stay of a child is a great mental burden and the self - preservation of which many families often know nothing, in addition a great shock. This petition has been taken note of in the Committee. The topic of hospital expenses is also made very often and time and again on the subject in the country days. We hope that there will be a positive outcome for our families and their children during the financial compensatory negotiations, namely that it will be negotiated well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22288	Mrs Haubner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22310	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! There is always new and interesting news to be reported from the Committee on Petitions. For example, we are getting more and more petitions and citizens' initiatives through democratic channels, and many people, many citizens of this country, are more likely to vote for direct democracy than ever before, especially when it comes to important concerns, such as in the case of two citizens' initiatives, which are unfortunately being dealt with: “SOS – Family!” have protested and protested against the savings package of this government in the family sector, or regarding the “Free choice of school without school money – now!” in the sense of the freedom of choice for parents that private schools are as supported as public schools. We have discussed well here, including in committee, but unfortunately there have been no changes so far. Last time, as my previous speakers have said, we had very, very many requests from the communities regarding nuclear disposal, but also with regard to nuclear waste disposal camps, which are now also allocated accordingly to the committee responsible. This is always a very important step if the Committee's consultations on petitions are continued here. An important common success – this has already been addressed today – and a first step has also been the possibility of electronic consent and support of petitions and citizens' initiatives. My previous speakers have already said it: There has already been a lot of use of it, and you all will probably have looked into it before. There are some top riders, such as the ‘110-kV ade!’ initiative. I myself have spoken with this citizens' initiative there and have also learned the reasons why they not only support this initiative so strongly, but have created it. For example, there have already been well over 500 signatures. You have to bring this together once without great advertising! Or, for example, the petition concerning the Salzburg–Graz train connections that there are better train connections – this has already been discussed in the context of the transport debate –: There are also over 200 supporters. This conscious perception by the population thus shows that this modernisation shift, if I may call it so, has been correct and necessary. I would like to thank not only my fellow Members of the individual political groups, but also you, Madam President, for the discussions on the further procedure, and especially for the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, who have really supported us very flexible, very openly in the technical process. But I also think that a next step or step must necessarily follow. We cannot rest here and we must see how we can further facilitate this access. I believe that a necessary step would also be to ensure that petitions are not at last bound to national councillors and that they are passed on to them, but that petitions can also be submitted directly as citizens. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] This is really something – and, I believe, we are all in agreement – from the times of the monarchy when the citizen was not allowed to face the emperor directly from face to face. I think these times are really over. However, I would like to continue to think of an idea which we have already tabled on the part of the BZÖ as a request in another committee, namely that people's desire on the Internet can be initiated and that people's desires are as possible, for I think this is very, very important, particularly now in connection with the discussion of the educational people's desire, where it has also been discussed that the interest for people's desires is falling among the people: That doesn't interest anyone anymore and so on. I think it is no longer contemporary today that one can only speak at certain times in the town hall, in the congregation, there with ID card his signature silently. It is important, perhaps, to take a break so that you can go there. So this is associated with a lot of trouble, and people don't want it today. You want to choose a simple, direct path. That is why we really need to remember whether this initiative would not be possible by electronic means. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We would not be the pioneers because there are similar models in England. If you remember, ladies and gentlemen, we were in Germany, there is already a model like that. Of course, there must be clear criteria against abuse, and so on. The expert opinions in Austria, which I at least heard, are also very, very positive. I think that if this access is simple, fast and unbureaucratic, it would also be much more supported by popular desires such as education. We should always have that in mind! Ladies and gentlemen, modern democracy needs modern citizens' participation. I will continue to work for this committee, and I very much hope that the other groups will support me not only but also go along with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22391	Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a short stop. I really want to pass on the thanks that many have now addressed to me to Parliament's management, which was very unbureaucratic and supportive of the Committee. Madam President, you have been with me in the postmortem, and we have already agreed: I also plan to make a regular distinction between petitions and citizens' initiatives in consultation with the entire Committee on Publications on individual citizens' initiatives. It is about seeing what has come in and how it has been treated. This means that the initiatives can also be put in control, including as a result of work, for better transparency and comprehensibleness. We'll have that until mid-next year. This serves, I think, your support and your work. – This is so far only an information transfer, not a word message. Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22425	Thank you, Werner! Madam President, I can actually seamlessly relate to what you have just said, and can also assure Mr Haubner: Whenever it comes to more democracy, we are Greens at your side. I have spoken because in the last few days I have received several emails from a special initiative/petition. This is about the school, the free choice of schools. And, Madam President, I am not going to presume to correct you, but perhaps I would like to give you the thought that these petitions of citizens who are engaged in an initiative and who, I believe, already have the right to take seriously and discuss what they tell us. For example, this petition is not the case now. There has been relatively great frustration among parents who feel they have been involved, they have These arguments have been put forward to us, the National Council, and the outcome from the point of view of these parents is against zero tending. Thank you very much, Madam President, for having been addressed to you today, I should also like to make a request to you, which is that you are also more committed to this matter. In principle, these schools are free of charge because they are equated with conventional schools. We have already discussed this intensively in the Committee on Education. We Greens have made several requests for this. All these applications have now been pushed to the long-term stage. There is a special procedure in the Teaching Committee to bury such applications. This has also happened to our requests. In this context, I do not want this initiative to happen. But that at least this is assigned to the teaching committee, I think, should be a matter of course. I would just like to read a short article from a father's e-mail from Graz, who ends his e-mail with the finding: So the Free School Election initiative could have saved its work now. And that's frustration. That is what we cannot need in Austria just in times like this. We need dedicated citizens. We must be happy when citizens are involved. And that's why this should be a warning. Disinterest and frustration among citizens are exactly what we should avoid. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22467	Mr Wenninger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22488	Madam President. High house! On the progress of the reform and on the way in which the Committee works, I believe that the President, Mrs Haubner, is also in favour of completion. In connection with the overall work, the renewals of the last months and years, the discussion here in plenary on the work of the Committee on Petitions has also improved considerably. In fact, I see all these developments as a sign of a strong democratic concept. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hornek.]] However, what we should consider in a separate round – that is, what Mr Walser and Mr Pirklhuber said before – is the question of the self-interpretation of our work, which is to be assigned and whether the way in which they are being dealt with is really one that is not as satisfactory as the colleagues of the Greens, but also Mrs Winter, are articulated here. I am concerned about the quality of the Committee on Petitions's opinion that finalisations must also be possible. I do not want a committee, which de facto only takes over a post-box function by forwarding advocating citizens' initiatives and petitions according to their content to the relevant specialist committee. This would cause the Committee on Petitions to lose its political impact. I believe that there is a debate on this, including what Mr Walser has now mentioned, to encourage the Austrians to introduce citizens' initiatives and to adopt the online petition in order to participate in the democratic process even more so than in the past. I originally wanted to say a few words about the anti-AKW initiative. We have discussed the numerous petitions for nuclear exodus very thoroughly with the experts. and allocated to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. There has been great agreement on this in the Committee on Petitions. I also see these petitions as a signal of positive support for the initiatives of the Federal Government – with the declaration, with the first anti-CFC summit, with the resolution of the National Council. This combination of parliamentary activity, the work of the Federal Government and the commitment of the citizens' initiatives and environmental organisations will provide us with content in our common anti-AKW consensus. I hope that we as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection can also report a good report to the Committee on Petitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22534	Mr Jury is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22555	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only vote in this previous lobby of certain Red and Black Members on a conditional basis or not, because I have always felt that the citizens' initiatives, which are really a lot of heart's blood, commitment and initiative in their work and concern for politics, do not increase the appreciation, as Mrs Lohfeyer has said, and simply end this commitment. [[Call the SPÖ: Either – or!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the last committee, to the nuclear hearing a few comments: It is really a great acidity, I say now – Madam President, forgive me – that we as the Austrian Federal Government are still a member of the Euratom Treaty. This is contradictory and a great acidity, as you say. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Exit!]] We put €22 million annually in the Euratom conference to strengthen the atomic lobby. The profits of these nuclear lobbys, the corporations, and the losses that will eventually come should be socialized, i.e. they should be borne by the general public. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As we discussed agriculture on the previous point, I would like to address the following: There are always good petitions and citizens' initiatives for healthy farming. The test of the Stiftung Warentest, the consumer protectionist, of olive oil has shown that devils are being armored out of there and that consumers are lying. [[The speaker keeps the current issue of the magazine “Consument” up to date.]] However, the EU is creating with 1. On April 1, 2011, the proportion of alkylester – these are lipids – can still be increased in olive oil, which are fatty acids of depleted fruit. This is not the policy that we expect from the European Union, which is not the way forward for a free Austrian and free citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This policy must be pursued so that this idea of the free citizens of Europe really takes place again.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22636	Mr Jury, I am still giving you the opportunity to take back the expression “sausage”. [[Abg. Jury: No!]] - Then I'll give you a call for order. The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22674	Madam President. High house! Mr Jury, I believe that there is one important point in the nuclear question, namely that we are closed here in this House, and that we are here in this House setting out the way in which Austria is bringing itself into the nuclear question as a whole. It is about how we can meet this question through the closeness of the matter. From my point of view, this hearing has also contributed significantly to continuing to raise awareness and raise awareness. This anti-atom petition is an important support for the work of the Federal Government, and I believe it is important that we reject nuclear energy across party borders, as it is not a controllable energy and not an option for the future. So out of atom, into renewable energies! Austria still has exchange currents, and I think it is important and must be our top goal that we withdraw completely from nuclear energy. These petitions show that it is possible in Austria to transport directly concerns and problems of citizens. If you look at the 47 petitions from this collection report, you can see that there are different concerns here. I think it is a great way to promote and optimise democratic understanding, and it is the opportunity and the opportunity to also discuss publicly. As a Member of Parliament, so is my feeling, and I have brought in some petitions, it is also very helpful and gives you a good feeling when you work with and discuss with the people and can bring this right here. It is in this committee that we will be involving even more people in the political process in the future. Especially this online platform, I have to say, is really a great thing and important for the future so that especially young people can get involved in the process of petitioning or citizen initiative. Finally, I made a petition myself: Immediate construction stop at the Brenner Base Tunnel. It affected 30,000 people in the Tyrolean Wipptal, eleven mayors approached me, and we brought in this petition. The opinions have been received, and from these opinions it can be concluded that there is now a clear roadmap. – If there are some who do not want to be true, but there are decisions and there is a clear roadmap. Therefore: Petitions and citizens' initiatives bring more democracy, more participation and more opportunities, and we must work together to benefit from these opportunities for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22714	Mr Lausch is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22735	Madam President. High house! I come to the petition 81, to a petition that is very interesting. This was introduced by Mr Ewald Sacher of the SPÖ. It is always such a thing in the petitions and citizens' initiatives, because they unfortunately have more and more become a PR-gag of God lately. That's the same thing. Although there was a nice photo shoot with all the parties in the column hall, the colleague Sacher was of course also full and live, but if you look at the further course of this petition – I come back to the colleague Winter – you find that in principle there is a funeral of the first class. This was dealt with in the Committee, and on 5 May. In October 2011, the Committee decided by a majority to take note of this – nothing else. One has shubbled this petition, one has naturally made the association Neue Thayatal-Bahn hope that you will reactivate this track, although you know very well that parts of this railway have been shut down for years. This double-bedded game continues, even on the part of the coalition partner, because of course it does not make any different and is not much more honest. This is where Landeshaufmann Pröll 2008 takes over 28 secondary trains in Lower Austria, one of them this Thayatal railway, where you also know quite well that you can't operate it, that you've already stopped track parts. The whole “Quargel” is of course that one does not intend to operate these tracks at all. [[Abg. Hellererer: You don't even know yourself!]] You just want to make a vote, you can yell down like that now. You're running pure constituency, not an honest game! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You are already one with the coalition partner when it comes to taking PR-gags, taking photos in the column hall to use this in election times. Then you record it, then it is taken note of, rubbed, and then – I am already at the colleague Winter – there is a funeral of the first class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22781	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22802	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Member of the European Parliament. I also speak on the petition 81. I too know the background to this petition, I know the initiators of this petition, and I have had a conversation with one of these initiators this morning. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The background of this petition is known. The Thayatal Railway is part of an overall concept, a principle agreement between the Federal Government, the Lower Austria and the ÖBB, which in 2010 – thus has nothing to do with the country elections – has been concluded. This is about the acquisition of 28 regional railways, which were then taken over by the state of Lower Austria. The Committee has received two opinions on these petitions, one from BMVIT and one from the Federal Ministry of Finance. Both opinions include negative statements on federal competence. The BMF’s opinion points out that a genuine public railway line was transferred to the State of Lower Austria by January 2011 and that all decisions on the future of this railway line, including the former line network, fall within the competence of the State of Lower Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many ways of considering regional transport policy, and each concern is not of equal importance to all people. Nevertheless, I believe that it is also necessary to have discussions on the part of the country with the proponents of this petition and these initiatives – for further development in the region and for further development in terms of neighbourhood relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22845	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22866	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to speak about the petition I have made concerning the construction of truck parking spaces in Angath by ASFINAG. To your information and to inform the certainly still numerous viewers via ORF 3 some data on this: Angath currently has 43 pitches, and this number is expected to be increased to 210 according to ASFINAG. I'm allowed to presend that I'm not deficient the transit, the truck traffic per se, on the contrary, I'm calling myself for it. It is important that we have a modern and efficient transport infrastructure so that trucks can roll that bring the goods of daily needs. They also supply our companies – I speak here for Tyrol – they supply them with raw materials, with goods that can be processed further and then delivered. It is also important that truck drivers, in order to be able to comply with their driving and rest times, find decent opportunities to shower, to use sanitary facilities, or to sleep in safety. That's important, too. I therefore find it incomprehensible that ASFINAG is acting contrary to its previous position. It has very good and beautiful facilities – parking spaces, truck parking spaces – located along the Inntal motorway, in the area of Zirl/Inzing, in Vomp, in Weather and in Münster. Now it actually violates the principle of making such pitches far away from the settlement area, because the truck pitches in Angat are located directly at the settlement area, not even 100 meters away from the first houses of the settlement Fürth. This situation leads to uncertainty and was also the reason for hundreds of Anathers at a civil assembly in September, supported by the community leadership, in a hot discussion with the ASFINAG, with the responsible, expressing their displeasure. A first stage success has been achieved. There has now been a study creation, today the study should actually be completed. The need is raised in principle, not only in Tyrol, but throughout the corridor area from Rosenheim to Brixen. We are looking forward to this study because it is a signal of transparency. One has a basis for discussing this issue also on the basis of figures. But I miss the support of the coalition partner at the country level, I expect more courage, more commitment in Innsbruck. It was only a few weeks ago that we missed this commitment when the Minister of Transport no longer wanted to be removed from a toll supplement in the Unterinntal. 25 percent is expected to make up this toll. Of course, only the domestic economy comes to the handcushion, domestic businesses have to live with this location disadvantage. We are now calling for this support and a stronger response to the party colleague at the federal level from the coalition partner. How to do it, the country day has shown. There's an all-party request, and for the support we've learned there, I'm also looking for you here in the House. Let's see together that this large number – with 210 pitches that would be the largest number of truck pitches in total tyrol – will not be realized! I invite you for support and thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22906	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22955	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! The report on petitions and the four citizens' initiatives has already been written in detail by the previous speakers. I would just like to refer to the Citizens' Initiative number 27, which deals with the exceptional admission to the national vocational school of young people and persons in an initiative of the labour market service. As mentioned above, this citizens' initiative was supported by more than 7,100 people. In the vocational training law, more precisely in § 23 para. 5 is already regulated, with the exception of admission to the course examination, but it is only possible for these persons to attend the vocational school on a conditional basis. With the amendment of the section 46 of the School Organisation Act, it will now also be possible for young people who are willing to qualify and learn, and for those who are in training measures of the AMS, to be able to claim to attend the national vocational school in order to facilitate the degree of education and thus vocational qualification. This, of course, also entails a major relief to claim on the labour market. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The opening of this door, enabling these people and young people to attend the vocational school in order to come to a degree, is an important concern for us. This has already been discussed sufficiently in the Committee, and I am pleased that unanimity has been recorded. I believe that we are well advised, not only from the point of view of educational justice, but also from a national economic point of view, to deal with this citizens' initiative in the teaching committee. This country needs skilled workers, and I am convinced that we will treat this citizens' initiative positively – in the sense of our youth and in the sense of qualifications, which constitute an important foundation for people in society.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e22989	Next, Mr Keck. I'll set the clock to 2 minutes. I would draw the SPÖ club's attention to the fact that there is a total residence time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23010	Madam President. I'm not going to take advantage of this rest of the speaking time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's report from the Committee on Petitions includes 43 petitions and four citizens' initiatives. 30 petitions alone deal with the global nuclear exodus. This also makes very clear in the Committee on Petitions that the topic of nuclear power and nuclear power plants is moving people. They were petitions decided by the cities and municipalities in the municipal council meetings. It is good and important that these petitions were decided at the municipal council meetings. However, in the sense of enhanced democracy, it would also be right not to set the item on the agenda for petitions and citizens' initiatives as one of the last items of the agenda here in this House, but to try to define it as one of the items in the agenda. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Petzner.]] Considering how many people are behind these petitions and citizens' initiatives, it is necessary that this item on the agenda be set as one point. I call on the clubmen, Mr Cap, as well as Mr Tschop, the head – all the others are missing in this House – to work on their club directors at the next presidential meeting and to look for the agenda item on petitions and citizens' initiatives to be set as agenda item 1 and there is also more time for this item on the agenda. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] Mr Lausch, one thing you also have to say: The Committee on Petitions does not attempt to make it a first-class funeral. This Committee on Petitions not only treats petitions as a show, but tries to give people the opportunity to represent their concerns here in this House. It is also tried to show these people that we are taking their concerns seriously. If we find out by means of opinions received, that a petition or a citizens' initiative can be negotiated, we will do so with this statement here in this House. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we had more time here, we could also deal with every single petition and citizens' initiative in detail and explain why this end has come to an end.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23074	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, its report 1420 of the Supplements on petitions No. 46, 75, 77 to 97, 99 to 103, 105 to 111, 114 to 116, 118 to 120, 122 and 123 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. to note 26, 27, 30 and 31. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their agreement to do so with a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[21:42:13]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1624/A by Mr Mag. Christine Muttonen, Fritz Neugebauer, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues concerning a federal law establishing a Federal Law on Information in EU Matters (‘EU Information Law’, ‘EU InfoG’) (1444 d.b.) (Third reading)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23126	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. As this draft law has already been adopted at second reading, we shall come to the third reading. I shall now vote in third reading on the draft law, title and receipt in 1444 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who, at third reading, give their approval to this draft law in order to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:43:01]] 12. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1657/A by Mr Mag. Christine Muttonen, Fritz Neugebauer, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, Kolle- were and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975) (1445, e.g.) (Third reading)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23189	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. As this draft law has already been adopted at second reading, we shall now come to the third reading. In accordance with § 108 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading shall take place at the earliest 24 hours after the conclusion of the second reading. ==References====External links== ==References== Thus, the 24-hour deadline is fulfilled. The present draft law may be amended in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be decided only on the presence of at least half of the Members and by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. First of all, I note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1445 of the supplements as amended by the third reading of the decision. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. This draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority of the third reading. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. [[21:44:43]] 13. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Ewald Stadler, colleagues in a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 (1623/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23251	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first is the applicant, Mr Mag. Stadler, to speak. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. I would draw attention to the fact that a total period of 12 minutes exists. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23278	Madam President. High house! The request has been explained quickly. Paragraph 91 of our Rules of Procedure provides for the following: “Requirements to be sent by a Member of Parliament to the Federal Government or to one of its members shall be submitted in writing to the President with at least four copies.” That is to say, on the one hand, writtenness is provided, and on the other hand, the whole is limited to a period of time, namely within the session. It's no longer contemporary. The role of Members in controlling executive power has now become an increasingly important parliamentary task. It is not to be seen why during the part-session-free period, during the summer break, no parliamentary requests should be possible, especially since the whole is done in writing and therefore technically possible. In addition, I would like to point out that in several days of the country, even during the summer season, even during the part-session-free period, parliamentary requests at the country level are possible. If this is possible at the country level, then I believe that it is also manageable at the federal level without further delay. There is no reasonable reason why we cannot make a parliamentary request to the government during the summer break, especially since a parliamentary request made at the beginning of the autumn session will not be answered until the beginning of the autumn session due to the relatively long time of reply. I therefore believe that this regulation is antiquated. By removing the words “within a session” – which is a relatively simple measure – this could be taken into account, and it could also be made by Members during the part-session-free period, i.e. during the summer break, parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23317	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. There are 2 minutes of total residence time. 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23339	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have had numerous discussions on the Rules of Procedure in this GP, and I would say that we have had marathon discussions. Some important decisions on the Rules of Procedure have also been implemented. I can imagine – I invite all the political groups – that we take up this issue on the next occasion. You'll see what the discussions are like. We have a lot in the river at the time of the Rules of Procedure. This would further enrich the discussion. In principle, I believe that we could bring something together. I invite everyone, as I have said, to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23369	Mr Brosz is now speaking. 3 minutes speaking time; Total residence time for your group: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23390	Madam President. I almost feared that we would all be invited again. The problem with the Rules of Procedure is that we usually invite, but nothing happens. Especially in this case, of course, the application is highly justified. By the way, Mr Pendl, it was also true that at least the Greens, I do not know whether the other political groups did so, repeatedly submitted this request to the comments of the Rules of Procedure in the last round of the negotiations. It's been a long time, as it were. In view of the debate over recent months on corruption, it is entirely antique that questions cannot be raised de facto over two months, and that Mr Stadler is absolutely right. If you take it exactly, it's not true at all, because the Federal Council is doing it. There comes the funny game that you have to play the same questions about the Federal Council. It just doesn't make any sense to stick to it at all. I would really like us to be able to implement this point at least once unbureaucratically, without a great deal of other reform. We don't need to invite long. This can be done relatively quickly, that should be done within the shortest time. It would be time, in the sense of parliamentary control, to abolish this antique regime.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23423	No one is reporting on this. I accept Amendment No 1623/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[21:49:39]] 14. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Johannes Hübner, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law with which the German Federal Law of 23 December 1989 was applied. January 1974 on actions threatened with judicial punishment (Strafgesetzbuch – StGB), BGBl. I No. 111/2010, amended (1652/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23462	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant Dr. Hübner will first receive the floor. 4 minutes speaking time; Total period of residence 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23489	Ladies and gentlemen! It is about the following: It is actually a matter of course that those who misuse the right of guest in Austria, who are thus settled here and become criminal, must leave the country. This is also provided for in our legal order, but in a non-effective and, as we think, not sensible and far too expensive way. It is true that the judicial conviction in criminal proceedings must only follow an administrative procedure under the Foreign Police Act, and in this administrative procedure, which can be carried out until the Administrative or Constitutional Court, it is then to be decided whether the conditions for a residence ban are present. This is very ineffective and expensive, and this is also reflected in statistics: In 2010, we had about 12,400 convictions of foreigners for crimes, and in just 2,400 cases, in about 20 percent, a residence ban was imposed. That is, in 80 percent of cases of criminal conviction, no residence ban was imposed. And in the 20 percent of the cases in which it was imposed, it was only – in many cases, not always, but in many cases – that it was imposed after many years of procedures that went partly up to the highest courts. At that time, some of the people were inconceivable, dived down, and so on, so that 20 percent of those who actually had to leave the country after the crime were not close. This figure is much lower and is expected to be 12.13 percent. Unfortunately! In view of the debate on administrative simplification, on sparing pressure and the general need to enforce laws, we have therefore seen across the borders and have seen how the Danes have regulated this summer. They have made this very easy, they have introduced the loss of the right of residence, i.e. the prohibition of residence as a follow-up to the criminal proceedings. There is therefore no further procedure, but – as with us for example, the loss of office – in the event of condemnation to a prison sentence of more than one year, the residence ban shall be automatically imposed there, provided that international contracts do not necessarily oppose it. This is the case, for example, if in the other country the death penalty threatens for another offence or because the person concerned has fled because of death threat or similar. We have proposed – and this is formulated in the application – that the § 27 – that is the section of the Criminal Code, which provides for the follow-up of the loss of office – another paragraph, a third paragraph, in which a further consequence is added to foreign offenders, i.e. to criminals with non-Austrian citizenship, when they are sentenced for a intentional offence or a grossly negligent offence, the national reference to the ban on residence is automatically pronounced. Therefore, the foreign police procedure has been completed with the criminal proceedings. Any appeal against this incident must be brought against the main conviction by means of an allegory appeal. This would be effective, cost-effective and enforceable. In our view, however, there should be no objections. We can discuss everything in the course of the procedure. One can talk about whether the twenty-year duration proposed by us is too long, whether one comes out at the age of ten or at the age of 15 years. It is also possible to discuss whether certain bagatella offences are excluded from this automatic episode, but in the core, I believe that this should be an effective, favourable, rapid and simplified system which improves our criminal order and its enforceability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23548	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. 1 minute total residence time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23569	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this proposal is first of all legislatively wrong, second entirely overlaid, and thirdly not in line with the Danish model. First: He is wrong because there is no gross negligence in criminal proceedings. That's why you can't assume it. Secondly, Imagine you condemn a respected businessman who lives here, has his business here, because of a car accident for negligent body injury! Then he'd have to be listed for 20 years. It's impossible to deduce this episode! And the Danes themselves bound this to a one-year prison sentence. You'd tie this up to negligence. I think that this is a far-reaching, impenetrable and a very bad legitimate request.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23605	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23627	Mr Wittmann, I must congratulate you: They have managed to say everything essential about this request in one minute, but that is, of course, the request; therefore, it has not been so difficult. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] But still my compliment. Supplementary: How this application is manipulated by figures: There's talk about suspects of crime, then you come to the big sum of 69,188. Of course, that doesn't matter at all. Let me give you an example: Her Styrian partyobmann Kurzmann was a suspect of crime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] He was acquitted. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] In your statistics, you would lead him as a suspect of crime. Then you say these numbers would speak for themselves, and then say that only 2,421 have received a residence ban. First you artificially create a large number, and then you face this small number and give the impression that the suspects would be convicted. Of course, that's nonsense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Secondly, The request – and I have already said that the colleague Wittmann has said everything anyway – is a nonsense. He's overwhelming. They are not concerned about what offence it is about, which criminal frameworks, which height of punishment – all these distinctions are not interested in you. The application is disproportionate because you are not concerned about the attachment of the person concerned to that country. He's system-absorbed: Now that is regulated in the Foreign Police Act, you split the legal basis. But it is probably also EMRK-unfavourable, because you, colleagues from the FPÖ, provide for an automaticism, target a relatively long period of 20 years and thus result in a ban on residence for the entire EU area. And this will usually not be compatible with the right to family life under the ECHR. This request will be discussed in the Committee, which cannot be avoided. Otherwise, everything's said. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23699	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23720	Mr Steinhauser, on the legal quality of the application, one can actually argue, but he is not an ECHR-illogical. Of course, if a court ruling is in the interests of the Republic, that is to say, public order, it is permissible to issue a residence ban against a person in question who poses a threat to public order and security. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: 20 years?]] – The EMRK also does not provide for an annual period, but it is about whether it is permitted or not from the principle – and it is permitted! - That's the first one. The second is that, with regard to the severity of a crime, one can also believe that 20 years are justified. What cannot be justified is in the event of negligence. In the event of negligence, I think this is the first thing I think is wrong, because: There is no more gross negligence in our StGB. And second, I really don't think that this is a negligence crime. It is simply not right for anyone to assume that he is specifically in breach of the law of the host country. One can quite rightly discuss the question of the request, but this approach is wrong. It is true that one can discuss whether a residence ban is to be carried out at the same time as the next legal ruling of the Court of First Instance in order to shorten the proceedings – that is also procedural economics. That makes sense. This is also the case with politicians; if, for example, they are sentenced to more than 12 months of imprisonment, then the loss of office is imperative. I have two views on this. First of all, I believe that there should be a permanent – I believe the loss of office is also regulated in § 27 – and also the legal status of a multi-year – and now one can step it down – residence ban, which is declared a follow-up to a condemnation of twelve months of imprisonment. That actually makes it relatively clear which offences these are. This is no longer abysmal if a twelve-month compulsory detention is associated with it. And the second is that one can then also say that a multi-year ban and also a long-term ban on staying is associated with it. That is to say, in a modified form, we can discuss this, and then, I believe, we can impose a ban on residence, with a restriction on intentional offences connected with more than twelve months of imprisonment. I think that is a point of order and a procedural economy, because in the administrative procedure it is. It's like that now. That is the legal situation in force. If the application was properly restricted, it would mean that everything that is later to be pronounced by the Foreign Authority would be done at the same time as the judgment of the Court of First Instance. Ladies and gentlemen, what I would like to know at the end of the day is why the EIA has never actually participated in the debates on first readings of applications. Are you not interested or is the coalition partner already speaking for you? – I don’t know, I would have liked to know. It would simply interest me as a Member, as a parliamentarian, Mr Neugebauer, why I do not participate in any debate anymore. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Too lazy to work!]] Or do you want to abolish the first reading? . The ÖVP has no opinion as to whether at least one parliamentary question may be put during the summer break. [[Abg. Neugebauer: That's sunny!]] – “This is sunny”; then we would have liked to hear it. May I support the Stenographical Protocol: President Neugebauer said to the ÖVP: “That’s sunny,” that is? Consent or rejection? – Consent. Of course, consent. Bravo! [[Congratulations to the speaker as well as to BZÖ and Greens.]] I believe that we should give the President of the European Parliament a welcome, because by means of my contribution to the debate, we have also explained what the ÖVP wants. That's also a possibility. You can do this about me, just not for long. Unfortunately! Not for long. So you will have to discuss whether you are still taking part in the first reading debates. Mr President. Is there any further opinion on this proposal that is now under debate? Mr. Justice Officer? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, can we also take the view of the EIA for the Stenographical Protocol? [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: After the meeting!]] – ‘After the meeting’. So well, the ÖVP is discussing such a thing only after the meeting. Okay, that's also an access to parliamentarism. It corresponds to the quality of the mouse, which is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. But let us assume that after the meeting we have to continue talking a little bit with the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23817	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I grant the request 1652/A to the Committee on Justice. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:02:15]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00130_d7e23853	I am still announcing that in today's session, self-employed applications were submitted by 1720/A(E) to 1726/A. Questions 9769/J to 9802/J were also raised. Finally, Questions 68/JPR and 69/JPR by Mr Grosz, colleagues and colleagues have been brought to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.03 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
