ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00115_d7e604	I'll open the meeting. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Johann Maier, Gessl-Ranftl, Großruck, Tamandel, Dr. Königshofer, Themessl, Mag. Jarmer, Mag. Honey and Ing. Lugar. [[20:47:58]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00115_d7e638	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[20:48:11]] Decision to terminate the ordinary meeting 2010/2011
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00115_d7e934	The following is my request from Dr. Cap, Head, Ing. Hofer, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues with the text before: “The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is invited to attend the ordinary meeting of XXIV 2010/2011. National Council legislative period at the end of the 11th century. to be declared terminated on July 15, 2011.’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[20:48:47]] Request for permanent declaration of committees
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00115_d7e964	I also have the request of Mr Magn. Stadler according to § 46 para. 4 GoG to instruct the following committees to continue their work during the meeting-free period: Committee for Work and Social Affairs, External Policy Committee, Building Committee, Family Committee, Financial Committee, Committee for Research, Innovation and Technology, Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Health Committee, Equal Treatment Committee, Internal Affairs Committee, Justice Committee, Consumer Protection Committee, Cultural Committee, National Defence Committee, Agriculture and Forestry Committee, Human Rights Committee, Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, Court of Auditors, Committee on Sports, Tourism Committee, Environment Committee, Education Committee, Constitutional Committee, Transport Committee, People's Procurement Committee, Economic and Industrial Affairs and Science Committee. In addition, Mr Magistrate has power. Stadler according to § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure requested that a debate be held on the request for a permanent declaration of the said committees. I would therefore like to begin by voting on whether a debate is to be held on the current request for a permanent declaration of these committees. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is the minority. The request has not been accepted. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Magn. Stadler according to § 46 para. 4 to instruct the said committees to continue their work during the meeting-free period. I shall vote on it if there is no objection to it. If I agree to this request for a permanent declaration of the said committees, I would like to ask for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[20:50:10]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00115_d7e1025	I have the written request of 20 Members, the Official Protocol concerning the decision to terminate the ordinary meeting 2010/2011 of XXIV. To read the legislative period so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I read: “Deputies Dr. Cap, Kopf, Ing. Mr Hofer, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, tabled the following request (Annex C): "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the ordinary meeting of XXIV in 2010/2011. National Council legislative period at the end of the 11th century. To be declared terminated on July 15, 2011.’ This amendment is accepted by a majority vote. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG on reading the part of the Official Protocol concerning the decision to terminate the ordinary measure 2010/2011 of XXIV. legislative period before (Annex E).’ Are there any objections to the version or contents of this section of the Official Protocol? – That's not the case. This part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, with the end of the sitting, as approved. [[20:52:10]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00115_d7e1077	Mein Ladies and gentlemen, as every year – including summertime, not only at wintertime – I can now take the opportunity to thank you very much for the good cooperation. It is not always stress-free and non-fractional, but I think we can be happy and proud of our work in the service of the Republic of Austria. I expressly thank the members of the Presidential Conference, the five club members and the Second and Third Presidents. We meet often and sit long and have good conversations and always come to constructive results. I would also like to thank you very much for this. [[General condolences.]] I would like to draw my conclusion for the other words of thanks to Mr Pendl. [[General cheerfulness and condolences with representatives of the BZÖ.]] I am very grateful and expressly grateful to Parliament's Directorate, which began with Mr. Parliament's Director, Mrs. Vice-Director, Mr. Vice-Director, the Head of Service, the Head of Division, and the House workers. The cleaning forces, to all who are available to us, and this around the year. [[General condolences.]] I thank you, even in your name I have to do this now, with the staff of the clubs, the club secretariats very, very cordial! [[General condolences.]] Then there is another group to which we must not forget, which we have today also devoted our own agenda item, namely our parliamentary staff. Thank you, too, and good! [[General condolences.]] In the last few days, it has again been very often mentioned whether, at the end of the summer, the so-called session marathon breaks out again. I have also been asked very often in the media – I have been demented. We had good negotiations and good debates, especially in advance. Just the last three days have proved how parliamentaryism can look and should, I may say at this point too, with constructive committee negotiations, good results on important, essential issues. I think that should also be carried outside to the population. Although we had less time to attend a meeting than at the last session, which was 39 meetings – last time it was 40 – we had at 25 hours more time to stay here together. But that also means good, that is to say intensive consultation, sufficient time to deal with legal matters. We should not allow the impression in the public that we would not take our work seriously – the opposite is the case! [[General condolences.]] I do, and I am not allowed to wish you any holiday every ten weeks. We know we don't go on vacation, we do our work in the service of the public. It is also allowed to go on holiday for 14 days or three weeks, as every Austrian and every Austrian does. I hope you'll all be healthy and good back from this time. We will see you again in autumn, in September at the beginning of the next meeting. Good luck! [[20:56]] This meeting is closed.
