ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e2677	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. As prevented, MEPs are reported Riepl, Mag. Cortolezis-Schlager, Mag. Fuhrmann, Großruck, Ing. Hofer and Dr. Grünewald. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e2705	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Doris Bures is represented by the Federal Minister for Women and Public Service Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is represented by the Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Karlheinz Dägenle. I announce that the meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from TW 1 to 8.12 p.m. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e2756	Mr Bucher, fellow Members, asked for the written question to be put to the Federal Chancellor before entering the agenda 9526/J by Mrs Bucher, colleagues, concerning: Veto now, Federal Chancellor, to treat urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e2777	In order to be able to negotiate items 2 and 3 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 2 and 3 are the reports of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Salzburg for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler(1496 of the Supplements) and the request of the Landesgericht für Präsidentsanfahren Graz for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Wolfgang Zanger (1497 of the Supplements). I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e2817	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 112, FPÖ 100, Green 88 and BZÖ 84 minutes. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of each Member without club membership to 10 minutes per debate. For the time from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m., the following statement was agreed: one speech per group with 12 minutes each, German Chancellor 8 minutes, Vice Chancellor 8 minutes, one speech per group with 7 minutes, another round each with 5 minutes, then one member of government ÖVP 5 minutes and one member of government SPÖ 5 minutes. This is followed by 2 speeches with speech messages per group of 5 minutes, then a member of the government SPÖ 4 minutes, a member of the government ÖVP 4 minutes and a further round with 4 minutes per group. The President-in-Office of the Council will take care of strict compliance with the speaking time of each Member. Should it appear after the fifth round of Members that the remaining speaking time is not sufficient, the President-in-Office will shorten the speaking time of the remaining seven speakers – government members and Members – aliquot. Any actual corrections will only be made after the end of the television transmission to ORF 2. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. Whoever gives this consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:09:57]] 1. Point First reading: Federal Finance Act 2012 – BFG 2012 and investments (1405 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e2872	This leads us to the 1st place. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, speaking at a speaking time of 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e2899	Madam President. High house! It is an old tradition that, the day after the budget speech, we have the opportunity to address the budget in detail, but also the budget. It is indeed true that the political priorities, the political orientations can be found in the budget and can be read from it. I think it can be said with a certain pride that after the crises in connection with Lehman Brothers and the subsequent turbulence on the financial markets and in the real economy – or the impact of these turbulences on the financial markets on the real economy – where there was, of course, a need for action for the various governments, the Austrian government has really responded in a way that can be called responsible and correct if one considers the comparison and the result. The result is that we have one of the lowest unemployment rates that we have one of the highest employment rates that we have been able to guarantee economic growth with our concepts of short work, labour market service instruments, employment programmes. And if you want to guarantee this priority, namely a developed social, health, pension system, but also a functioning economy, it is important that there are also anti-cyclical areas of action of the state and the public budget. This has also been used, and this has also led to the use of – rightly – tax money to boost the economy, to address the impact of the financial and economic crisis. We have also decided together, too fifth, here a bank package, because, of course, the banks play a very important role in these economic cycles. So here, I think, we can really point out that Austria is very positive in the international comparison, in the European comparison. Well, what I am for is that one does not overload an economic policy with ideological elements. Some government in Europe, some experts are still trying to bring neoliberal basic ideas into their economic understanding and also into their practical policies. [[Abg. Strache: Is this the first self-criticism after you serve the bank speculators, the millionaires? The section Neoliberalism in SPÖ!]] However, with regard to the development of the budget, what Mrs Finanzminister said on page 10 of yesterday's printed text: “This expenditure discipline on the federal financial framework is the first step towards reducing our deficits and acts as a debt brake.” It is undisputed that both the Maastricht rule – which the major countries in the European Union, however, have not complied with – and these budgetary changes have led to the guarantee of a budget capable of action in the future. I tell you, of course, it is of interest that the share of interest payments is as small as possible – that is, of course – and, of course, there is an interest in the fact that, in times when money is needed and money has to be received abroad, the dependence on foreign countries is as low as possible. And the third is that, of course, debt and interest payments have a negative redistribution effect, as I am a Social Democratic, because those who borrow the money and have to be paid for it, and that is the interest payments. It is therefore important to continue this course to ensure that the budgets are operational in times like these. However, the ability of households to act will, please, also be determined differently, and the neoliberal discourse is the one that says: Well, there's too much social system and too much pension and too much health system and so on! – And this goes in the direction of a reduction, a withdrawal of state benefits, but also a withdrawal from a social-state model, as it is a great European tradition, although in different countries of different quality. So we're already trying to cook an ideological soup here. To this end, I must say that the question of ability to act is also related to questions such as: How do the banks organize? What is the development of debt at national and local level? How does the question of liability look? – For example, if the Carinthians with the Lander-Hypo had “highly worked” on a liability framework of up to €22 billion, then it would have been good if there had been the possibility somewhere that the federal government could influence the fact that the federal government could say: [[Abg. Bucher: With the voices of the SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Street: Thanks to the SPÖ decisions!]] I want to have a liability limit here, or that there are possibilities here at all, because in the end it is the Federation that has to adopt this liability framework. That, I think, is very important: that you take steps here, and I assume – and I have read it from this text – that this is planned so that you can get hold of such a thing. It is also right to call for transparency of the various funding systems – not to torment someone, but to find out where there are double tracks. If we have a model with one of the highest economic promotions – and I recognise economic promotion – this is a very important element of economic and employment policy – then it is important to demand transparency in order to know where there may be double and triple funding. This is something that, I think, is very, very important and what it is worth for you to take up and fight for it. As far as the banks are concerned, I must say that I have read these two pages in the last “profile” with great interest, where it is stated that there are different accounting systems for the banks. We all wondered in the “ZIB2”, as a bank director, who said eight days earlier that everything would end with profit, eight days later he said: No, I don't think it's a profit, it's a huge loss. – These are all things that are of course already motivating that there is a lot to ask for in relation to the rules – be it insolvency law, whether it be the capital base or above all the question of how the accounting systems are. They are also elements that influence the scope for action of public households, such as what has happened, for example, at the country's hypo, and thus at country level. Similarly, the question of tax evasion, the tax evasion, is an essential element, where it is disgracefully necessary to read in the “image” newspaper that the Greek supermillionaires are cut off with the money into Switzerland. Of course, Switzerland is now in demand, as Greece is in demand anyway, but the European level is also in demand, because it cannot be our own interest to ensure that the euro zone continues to exist, that the euro continues to exist, that it is an essential basis of economic development, our prosperity, export, and that then a top class of millionaires believes that it can take responsibility and abject – like all other tax evasions and tax refugees who go into this so-called tax paradise. – Among other things, the main defender of the financial markets, namely Great Britain, has tax havens, and wants to do so, but he talks with us in the EU and makes rules and tells us how to do it properly, and by the way, it is glad that they still have the pound there. This is a European attitude that is really indispensable. But in this context, this has also been noted as an essential element. Similarly, in real stress tests, it is not only about the issue of balance sheet rules, but also about the scope for discretion in risk and assets – louder things that have been made publicly available to the public, and where the definition of the scope for action of public households – and we acknowledge that this is important – gets a completely different, broader basis and that a wider discussion is taking place about it, because the services of the state go far beyond the services of the social, health and pension system, the education system and so on. These are necessary measures! And always keep the discussion in such a way that it is said that one draws a lid, a brake, and in reality one takes back social benefits and does not discuss other elements that are important, that is unsocial and certainly does not find the support of the Social Democrats when it goes in this direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was also important that a financial transaction tax should in particular include transparency. It is also one of the elements of a financial transaction tax that undermines these computer share purchases and sales, all of which are automatic. So this is not just about the revenue side – and it is very important for the EU not to succeed, but that we have something that we can use. This is a very crucial point, because we also help to ensure that the euro and the euro zone continue to exist and continue to play an important role in this context. Keeping the Triple A is perfectly correct, because if we question Triple A and if there are problems there, just cost more interest, more money needs to be transferred. Therefore, the fight to maintain Triple A is perfectly correct and should continue to have an important priority in the future. There are also a number of points on which I do not entirely agree with you – but that is why you also wrote them in or mentioned yesterday, Mrs Finanzminister! Of course, I appreciate the work of the Social Democratic Ministries far more positively. Of course, I cannot identify with the introduction of the tuition fees. But above all, I cannot identify with one point, namely if you say that taxation in Austria is carried out efficiently, fairly and fairly. – I am not of this opinion! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That she should be so!]] - I can only quote what's in there. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Toll!]] I tell you, one of the next tax reform steps should ensure that we come to fair taxes, including the millionaire tax. If we have 80 000 millionaires in Austria, they should and must make their contribution. This is very crucial, and this is also a central point of our policy understanding. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is important that we also express this solidarity in a society in tax policy. Social justice is one of the key and essential principles in considering when the issue of dealing with crises will be at the heart of all these considerations. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Are you in opposition now?]] I therefore hope that it will succeed. The opposition is also invited to participate. [[Abg. Bucher shakes his head out of a lack of understanding.]] – If you are apocalyptic with your head now, you can speak apocalypticly, Mr Bucher! We will listen with interest to your remarks and will be able to discuss them again here in plenary, but also in the committees. I'd just encourage you to carry this. Above all, aware that, as a country with 8 million inhabitants in the European Union, we want to be a global player together with the European Union in competition with China, the United States, Japan and other countries, we should put such a thing as a basic consensus, cohesion, a common appearance, a joint work in the interests of Austrians to the centre of our parliamentary policy – with the basic principle: It must be socially just!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e3046	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the table. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e3067	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government, especially Mrs Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) After one – you can almost say – nocturnal session excessive with the end of the meeting 3 o'clock in the morning: a nice good morning! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I believe that this issue – Mr Van der Bellen was perfectly right yesterday – will be serious in the next few days and weeks, because with all the love for parliamentarianism – and I love parliamentarianism – will be serious: It can't be either! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] [[Calls at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Federal Minister Fekter presented yesterday in her budget speech a convincing concept for stable finances, in turn for a secure future. She also had a good news for us, ladies and gentlemen: We are absolutely on the right track with this budget! The consolidation course that we had to take is taking place. Many experts – there are a few outsiders – confirm us, always taking into account the very difficult starting point after a budget renewal, after a reorganisation of a financial crisis, that we are on the right path with this budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The experts also define the causes of this: a committed, ambitious approach to the challenges and also the use of smart, effective instruments such as the Federal Financial Framework or the Federal Financial Framework Act, i.e. the instrument of the new budgetary right. This clearly acts as an expenditure brake, and we will only deal with our budgetary problems through a reduction in expenditure development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In figures, this means that the deficit is falling, although the economic forecasts are not satisfactory. [[Abg. Booker: We'll see that first!]] The WIFO has recently reduced the forecast for the next year from 1.8 to 0.8 percent. The forecasts of the deficit are absolutely satisfactory. We had a deficit of 4.6 percent last year, and we will have reached a deficit of 2% in 2015. This is clearly under the Maastricht conditions. This is a result of the budgetary efforts of the Federal Government and, of course, of our Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying that, with all the need to save, to consolidate, to moderate expenditure development, with this budget, it is possible to continue those offensive measures that have been taken to further develop our economic location, to maintain employment. I only remember the total budget for education and education of just under €8 billion, with additional measures for the expansion of the New Secondary School, with an additional 80 million additional for universities and colleges, for example. In the field of research, for example, it has succeeded in providing a further 100 million, because research, development, education are, of course, the basics that make it possible to generate economic development, growth and thus, finally, to secure employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But there are also other very important areas, which are of course very important for the development of our society, for the functioning of our society. Childcare, full day care – additional 80 million. Care funds – the challenge of the next few years and decades. How does an ageing society deal with its older fellow citizens? What is she willing to use for it? One thing is clear, apart from the original task, namely personal commitment in this area, which needs to come naturally, before any state commitment: We must be prepared to spend money in this area. The care fund, which will be paid by the federal government by the year 2014 with an additional 680 million, is a signal for humanity in this country, a signal of the cohesion of young and old in that country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: What are we doing from 2015 onwards?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have successfully mastered the financial crisis and the resulting economic crisis. This is the result of ambitious savings on the one hand and targeted investment on the other. Today, we can see that with 3.7 percent, we have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. The cut is at least 9.5%, that is, our rate is just one third of it. This is a great achievement for all entrepreneurs, all employees in our businesses, of course also in public administration, in agriculture, in the economy. This is an achievement of all of us in this country, and it cannot be honoured often enough, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, this is also a policy achievement in that we will at least provide €5.5 billion for labour market policy, not only for passive ones. It is thanks to the low rate of unemployment that God understands; although it will rise very easily, it is unfortunately necessary to admit that. This is, of course, also a merit of active policy, which we are carrying out in this area, namely to quickly integrate those people into the work process, which, for whatever reason, always lose their job. That is, I believe, a command of the hour, and therefore it is also justified to use such amounts for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, there is also a less encouraging message, ladies and gentlemen! Public debt is rising. The 71.8 percent increase in 2010 to 75.5% of the gross domestic product by 2013. They will not fall again until 2014. This results in interest payments of €8 billion. This is about the same amount that we can spend on education, on teaching, just to see the sizes in comparison. It can't stay like that! It's a damn dangerous value that goes to 80 percent debt. We all know that the 80 percent brand is a brand in which financial markets not only become nervous, but in the debtors – including in our country; others already have to experience it painfully – are at risk of being classified as bad or at least as endangered debtors. What that means is that other countries are currently experiencing. If we lose our best credit quality, which we enjoy as debtors, we pay at a rate of €2 billion more interest. It is therefore important to make every effort to use all power to prevent such developments. That means the debt has to go down! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's exactly what those who pushed them up!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These debts are not all due to the fact that we had to deal with a crisis, but imagine that the government under Wolfgang Schüssel would not have managed to reduce the debt ratio from 66 percent to 60 percent! Where would we stand today if we had had to double our recovery efforts to these 66 percent at the time? Then we would be exactly over that critical 80 percent I mentioned earlier. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. We're already here!]] [[Abg. Bucher: In truth, we are there anyway!]] One thing is said by those who constantly want to criticize Wolfgang Schüssel's Chancellorship and make it bad: At this time, during these seven years, it was possible, with the exception of a single year, to achieve primary surpluses in the budget. It's supposed to be someone else before and after him, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Having budget discipline is, of course, not only a question of justice, but also a question of reason; I have already mentioned the Triple A. Austria, ladies and gentlemen – that is to say all those who believe that it is possible to clean up budgets via further tax revenue – has a tax and tax rate of almost 44 percent. There's no room left! High taxes are death for performance, death for growth, and thus ultimately also a threat to our prosperity. [[Abg. Strache: Then finally lower the taxes!]] In other words, budget adjustment can only work through a reduction in expenditure and not through further taxes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You're pretending to be in opposition! There's no such thing as that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a budget that is convincing in the direction of stable finances and secure future. However, we will also have to make the greatest effort in the large cost blocks of pensions, the social sector – the largest budget area at all – in the coming years, federal railways, health, hospitals, not only in order to achieve small savings with the so-called lawn mower, but in order to ensure through structural measures, through ambitious structural measures, that our children, that our grandchildren can lead a life as beautiful as we do today. This is our task in this generation, because one cannot exist: to consume today and to have the next generations pay!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e3276	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e3298	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's the same lyre every year – including you, Mr. Klubobmann's head: [[Abg. Head: From you!]] Those who have responsibility for government, who have been responsible for this dramatic and irresponsible debt development for years, come here every year like you, Mr. Klubobmann, and talk about saving ourselves that we have to reduce debt, but your finance ministers are doing just the opposite. [[Abg. Head: That's not true!]] That's an increase of the Austrians what you're doing! No one takes it seriously anymore. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Of course, Mrs Fekter must also be admitted that yesterday, in her budget speech, she was not disappointed insofar as there were no expectations regarding her budget speech. The previous performance of the Minister of Finance has shown and proved: That's the credo of the squirrel. We have already experienced this when she was still working in the Ministry of the Interior, where she has finally managed where she has extended suffering in some areas without taking action to improve it. Similar things we experience now: We do not find real proposals to deal with the present crisis, there is no. One is looking for forgiveness, and one has not heard anything like it yesterday. This draft budget actually reflects exactly the lethargy and paralysis we are experiencing in this red and black federal government, in all areas. On the subject of the European Union, the Minister for Finance has just come back to what we know yesterday, namely a praise of the Euro-debt and gag, how great it is to bring all that, of what importance it is, instead of telling the truth, showing the true development of debt in Austria and also counting the outsourced areas into the budget, in order to put the actual figures on the table and not to hide them again. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] The situation, Mr Klubobmann Kopf, Mr Klubobmann Cap, is in reality much more dramatic than Mrs Fekter did yesterday. Austria's triple A rating is at risk, seriously endangered. You read for yourself yesterday during your speech that we have not yet got rid of the crisis, Mrs Finanzminister! – As if this were a great new development. Yeah, we haven't gotten out of the crisis yet. With this government and in view of this budget, we will, unfortunately, need to be seen by God, not escape the crisis either. On the contrary! We are only going to go into the crisis so properly in the face of all the misdevelopments you are continuing to make because you are unable to learn. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the basic problem. We have to find out and say salopp, you're going to go the cart further in the dirt. In the end, you will then explain to us why you could not prevent the triple-A rating from maybe having gone missing. – That’s what I’m hearing. This will probably be heard sometime from your side. They all refuse to learn from your mistakes. You continue to make debt, Mr. Head! – They continue to make debt! [[Abg. Head: We don't put on it!]] [[Abg. Head: We don't put on it! There are our goals!]] That's what the real numbers say. € 268 billion is our public debt, including the outsourced areas. 268 billion if you add the municipalities and federal states, the ÖBB and the ASFINAG, for which we don't pay 8 billion per year, but already 10 billion € interest! This is a debt ratio of 89.3 percent of the gross domestic product. Of the 10 billion interest payments, 80 percent, i.e. 8 billion euros, go abroad, and this is of course a redistribution from top to bottom, from inside to outside. That's exactly this redistribution you're living too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By 2015 additional €43 billion will be added. In addition, there are 130 billion € of the liability you have to answer, which can also be beaten. I didn't hear you showed at least a worst case scenario. What if these liabilities become striking? How do we deal with this? [[Abg. Grosz: Then we're pleading!]] Yeah, then we're pleading. Then we'll be right in the swamp you brought us into. You have to light that up seriously. What will fall on our mind in addition and with full force is the Euro-debt and bottleneck packages, which the Minister of Finance has celebrated in her budget speech. – We need our money in our own country! That's the consequence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's where it takes a rethink. But the Federal Government does not have a genius to send the tax money to Brussels, in future even to transfer annual contributions from Austria to the amount of €2.5 billion, i.e. once again in the form of a higher performance. And there are many other developments more to serve the banks and speculators. Then Klubobmann Cap turns out and says: We need justice. – He, with his SPÖ, who ultimately reduced the Austrian tax money back to the bank speculators, the perpetrators and guilders of this crisis, the millionaires who were saved in the final effect! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is an increase of the Austrians! No one takes it seriously anymore! Let us also look at the example of the euro bonds: The Eurobonds create a community of debt liability, in which the taxpayers of the individual countries have to pay for the debts of others. The consequence of this is, of course, what was the clear political objective of some EU centralists from the beginning, namely the creation of a centralist economic government of the countries of the European Union. – This is a development that we have always warned about and that we reject vehemently! This is, of course, the political objective of some who want to push this centralism forward from the crisis. In Austria and Germany, which so far have above-average credit quality, Eurobonds will lead to a significant deterioration in the conditions, which will naturally be reflected in an increase in the bond interest rate and an increase in the price of money. There are calculations that the additional costs will only be € 30 billion per year for the Federal Republic of Germany. If you convert this to Austria, this means that we also have to expect at least €3 billion of additional costs per year if you go this way. Just considering that is incredible and irresponsible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A larger part of the budget than before would then have to be spent on interest services and repayments, and this would only help to help weak Member States, corrupt governments and pleite states that have lied to us to avoid market-compliant, cheaper refinancing opportunities which the stable countries will ultimately have to pay themselves over more expensive conditions, which will, of course, increase the overall burden on us again, but will also reduce the assessment and, of course, triple A will be further at risk. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Let's say it clearly and openly: You are ruining Austria with this path! I'm saying that, because otherwise you can't describe it. Not only as regards the flow of money to the European Union, to the Member States and to the speculators banks, but also to tax and transfer policy. They continue to make necessary structural changes. There you cannot point to Brussels and say: They're to blame! That's real. Your sole responsibility, and you are not ready to make any necessary structural changes here at last. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The tax system continues to be highly taxed entirely against the labour factor. Mr. Klubobmann Cap! Why is the labour factor still so highly taxed? – Simple: Because SPÖ does not live social responsibility in this Federal Government, for example, while banks and their managers are favoured or even liberated or liberated. The billions of expensive and totally impenetrable funding jungles in Austria are also well-known, and I wonder: Why not make a real, sustainable structural change, for example in the area of family policy, where it would be necessary to introduce a family tax division, while I look again at the ÖVP, which is in fact inactive and has not made any such progress. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The demographic-related expenditure dynamics will still potentiate the budgetary constraints in the near future, Mr. Klubobmann Head! Thus, by 2030 alone, the expected demographic development of Austria and the Austrian population – i.e. through the ageing of our society – is expected to result in additional expenditure of € 110 billion. That means €110 billion in costs that come to us. – Experts expect an additional burden of €12 billion in care, €33 billion in the area of pensions and €65 billion in health care. The only remedy is a structural reform in this area, but also finally a sustainable family promotion policy and a reasonable family and population policy, so that we can think again in decades and try to get the problems at least half-way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what are you doing? – They increasingly rely on the migration of unqualified social assistance recipients from outside Europe and ultimately do not say goodbye to your social-Romantic hallucinations in this area. Indistinct mass immigration costs money, as Mr Thilo Sarrazin says, with which we can discuss and fight effectively. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] He proved this because he had access to the figures as a Social Democratic in Berlin and was able to prove it on the basis of the facts. On the other hand, they still refuse to present the figures to us, despite all the questions we ask. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But whoever says the truth – we know this not only here in Austria, but also elsewhere in Europe – will be defamed, defamed and also fought. But people and citizens have long seen how this also works here in Austria. They continue to lay their hands in all areas. Proposals by the Court of Auditors for restrictive measures – including those made yesterday by the President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser – will not be implemented by you, and therefore, as has been said, the triple A rating of the Republic will soon be aroused. This is a scandal, considering that an additional percentage point of interest will cost around €2 billion per year! Then Mr. Kopf turns out and tells us the same thing every year: Debt reduction, debt reduction, debt reduction! He says it like the ÖVP is in the opposition. For decades, however, you have been in the government and have the highest public debt of the Second Republic to answer! This is a joke, which you give the best in terms of content! You can only be more surprised and ashamed of your word! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Mrs Finanzminister, you also said yesterday that the small and medium-sized enterprises have to be relieved. – Why do Don't you? Who is at the top of the federal responsibility and would have the opportunity to do so? Finally, relieve the middle class! Apart from the fact that there is a government promise to relieve the middle class in the course of the tax reform, of course, such measures are necessary for the economic upturn. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Let's relieve the families, let's relieve the middle class! Let us lower the burden on the labour factor and make sure that the tax money is finally used by the Austrians, for example for people in need of care, but not for any bank speculators, as you do!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e3485	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e3507	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would now like to return to the heart of the debate, namely the budget and the budget speech yesterday. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would like to forward something positive: It is not a matter of course that a Minister of Finance should submit a budget in accordance with the Constitution in time. We didn't have that last year. There was no budget due to the uncertain economic situation until the Vienna election day. [[Abg. Grosz: Steiermark election!]] Yes, exactly, also with regard to the Steiermark election! Then, unconstitutionally, a late budget template was made. You have made a timely presentation this year, Mrs Finanzminister! [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] The second point to be noted is: In any case, they are moving towards the objective to which Austria has committed itself to the Council and the Commission. And you have come closer to this objective of reducing the deficit with this budget. Mr. Strache! If you demand tax reductions and demand that no more debts be made, then you also have to say sometime how you really want to reduce these deficits, which are enormous! – It’s not very easy! We will have to bear the costs of this one year of crisis in the next ten budgets, and that means a very great effort! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If you only ask for tax reductions and somehow want to secure money for your own people, then this is certainly not a substantial contribution to stopping this big hole! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Austria has committed itself to reaching less than 3 percent deficit by 2013 and below 2 percent by 2014 and 2015. Approach this goal with this budget. However, what you need to discuss: Which way did you choose? – You have proudly shown that despite the strained financial situation, this budget is not a savings budget. That's a nonsense, of course! I mean, you have to be so serious: Of course, this is a savings budget, and this savings budget is based above all on the decisions of last year. Let us remember: Her predecessor Josef Pröll has decided to apply the lawn mower method in every area and simply set savings targets across all areas, not to take structural reforms seriously and not to set priorities. Then came the Loipersdorf Saving Package, with which all these proposals were put into concrete action, and in view of that, there was a lot of resistance and protest throughout Austria, as you will remember. The savings among the families were drastic, and up to the Catholic Church there were protests against the savings in the family sector. There has been a great burden on young people, especially on civil servants and elderly people. The country of Vorarlberg has tried to reverse and complain. – So there were very brutal, drastic cuts here, and these are now being carried on with this budget one too one. Development cooperation: Let's remember! There have also been large cuts in this area, and these are now even stronger. So, of course, it is not to be maintained that it is said that there is no savings package. We also know that the revenue-based measures of this time have significantly more significantly burdened low incomes than the higher ones. You can't deny that either. In addition, no investment has been made in the central future areas. Despite all the instigation formulas, no investment is made in the central areas of the future, such as education, science and research. Now I am on a point that is very annoying, namely that you have presented us with wrong figures in your budget speech. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Yes! This is really annoyed, and I'm going to do it again. The figures of your budget speech do not agree with the figures in the budget report. - Now I have to take a drink. [[Abg. Wheeler: Prost!]] [[Abg. Good morning! Well slept out?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Thank you. That would be nice. They say in your budget speech – and have literally said so: “For the Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture, expenditures of around 8 billion are estimated in the 2012 budget, which is around 313 million more than this year.” In science, you also mention a number, namely, that around 66 million people are estimated to be above the value of the previous year. Why do these figures come about? – The budget report clearly states that there is a change in budgetary law. Due to this change in budgetary law – I declare it quite simply now – salaries, especially for teachers, but also for officials paid in January, are no longer booked as before in December, but are booked in January, i.e. the year in which they are also paid. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Wrong, Mrs. Colleague! It's the other way around!]] – We can still argue about that! Administrative and Maastricht budget... [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: It's the other way round!]] This results in a one-time high-level assessment of €1.3 billion in this budget, only because you have a change in budgetary law. However, they represent this in your budget as if it were additional expenditure on quality education. [[Abg. That's a total nonsense!]] You can now once again explain why your budget speech does not agree with the budget report. But these are grass methods, these are real grass methods! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Even the German chancellor has been caught up in this mistake yesterday and has also claimed that we are investing more in this area. – I mean, this is exactly what you have to do and represent very precise. This is really a problem: No investment will be made in future areas. According to the Federal Government, investment in the future is limited to road construction and payments to the ÖBB, which are no longer capable of paying their own infrastructure investments. That's your idea of future investment, and that's the hardest failure in this budget. We all in this House must therefore work very hard to ensure that this fundamental cardinal mistake of this budget is re-opened. We do not want to have decided on this budget in this form. We need future investment in education. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We discussed this yesterday, too. Especially when it comes to language promotion and child care, everything is in a very marginal area. If you really want to move forward with 10 or 15 million €, then you can't seriously believe your statements! Especially in the area of childcare, there has been a disturbance for over eight months as to whether 10 or 15 million are to be added. The countries and communities were insecure, and now it is €15 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] That really is not a state to do! We need – I say that again – € 200 to 300 million in this area. That would be a real investment in the future, but not 15 million! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would have expected that the first Minister of Finance in this Republic would also give a little more attention to women's policy. This budget, however, reduces the budget for women. It's already very small, but it's still being shortened. [[Abg. Strache: The ÖVP however places importance on the change of the German anthem!]] I also consider your foreign exchange to be a burden on the middle class yesterday and to strengthen the service providers, especially the thousands or millions of women who work part-time and do not earn €1 300 but less. They have a double burden to deal with, still do most of the unpaid work and are real performance providers in Austria. If you say that performance providers are only those who pay wage and income tax, then this is an underestimation of the work of women in Austria! I would like to make a point of order in this regard. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way: Social security contributions charge low income as well, and if you do not have taxes on VAT and other excise duties, you hide all of this and refer exclusively to this one-sided concept of performance, then you are fundamentally wrong! Everyone and everyone pays VAT, almost all social security contributions, and other excise duties all pay. If you say that the tax burden would be very unilaterally distributed, then that is very short! Now to the most important and actually dramatic point: Even the crisis situation and the strained financial situation have not contributed to the fact that structural reforms or federalism reforms have become possible in Austria. – I don’t know what still has to happen, that we are serious about structural reforms! Now we have the sharpest crisis since 1945, and there is still no single step forward in the field of federalism and administrative reform! You said yesterday, we're going the path of small steps and don't make Big Bang. What are you waiting for? This is actually the most important step to be taken two years ago, because, of course, the effects of such a reform do not sink money into the cash register from today to tomorrow. On the contrary! This may even become more expensive at the beginning. In any case, however, it was your hardest failure not to tackle these structural reforms. Shortening everywhere was Pröll's cardinal mistake. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The same applies to the whole area of taxation: Here, there is no need to discuss the fight for positioning between ÖVP and SPÖ. Instead, you may finally set up a tax reform commission and work on improving the tax structure in Austria! I do not know what you think an economic research institute is for if you constantly ignore and ignore the proposals in these areas! There you have been preaching this for almost ten years: Get down with the taxes on work, up with taxes on assets and wealth increases, also up with eco-social taxes and eco-taxes! Yes, thank you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] You've already learned that! To do that would not be bad either! It's a little bit too little to talk about. We really need this structural reform! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: It is nice that you take over our concept of eco-social tax!]] It's nice that we take over the ÖVP's tax concept? I'm curious! I thought your credo were the only three words: No new taxes! – If this is your tax system: Thank you! Mrs. Minister! By the way: I don't know who's writing your speeches! Here's what it says: “We need a tax system so that everyone can direct his own life.” – What does that mean? We have a tax system! – It was obvious that: We need a tax system that ensures or better ensures that every human being can lead direction in his or her life. – A little precision in these speeches, not only in the numbers, but perhaps also in the German language, would not harm either! I would like to sum up our proposals once again: Key areas such as science, education, research and childcare deserve priority. That means: In this area, we want a billion. This could be financed if you had already started structural reforms, but also through the additional economic income. As a Minister for Finance and Economic Affairs, you are very lucky this year. We believe, however, that we also need a tax reform and structural reform, which is more likely to require more money from those who actually make this contribution to the education state and to the social state. And taxes are to be reduced at work. – From my point of view, and from our point of view, these are the most important points that we want to share with you. However, we will fight until the end for investment in the future. We won't let it go. That is why I cordially invite all of you not to let this budget go through in this form!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e3741	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e3762	Madam President. High house! That was a really amusing fairy tale hour yesterday, in which you, Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, presented us with your glass ball budget! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I therefore say “Glasskugel budget” because you know very well, Mrs Bundesminister, that these figures will hardly be kept, especially when we look at the current analyses of the economic research institutes, which assume that economic growth is slowing down or moving towards zero and that we will have a very serious economic crisis in the coming years. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this budget will not be kept in this form, and that is why it is a glass ball budget which you have presented to us. If it were not so sad for the people, it would not be so sad for the children and grandchildren, for the next generations, then it would have been really amusing to listen to you yesterday, Mrs Federal Minister, because you have hardly missed an opportunity to put something ridiculous into this tragic speech you gave yesterday. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You spoke of a stable budget. The only stable I can see in this budget is that you continue to ensure that new debts are stable. That's the stability you're talking about: new debt, additional debt. The debt levels are going up and also the deficit: €9 billion, ladies and gentlemen, again! We have called you several times: Finally, end this tragic hiding-up of debt that is being operated here in Austria! It is not true that these 230 billion euros are the debt that this federal government has. That's not right! If you owe the ASFINAG debt, if you owe the ÖBB debt, if you add the debt of the countries, the communities, the distributed companies, my dear ladies and gentlemen, then you have reached a debt of € 270 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] This is the real debt of this Republic. They're hiding the truth. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, Mrs Federal Minister, hide the debt from people because you do not have the courage to tell the truth and to say how big and dramatic the debt development is in our country. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hörl]] And then the Lord turns his head out and laments the development of debt. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you of the ÖVP would have the power to stop this debt development. [[Abg. Head: That's what we do!]] You would have the chance to finally take up reforms. They've been sitting in the back of this government bank for 25 years. Please stop with this sad spectacle, get out of here and then regret your own policy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At last change something and change this dramatic debt development! They're always talking about 75 percent debt ratio. If you count all of these debts I've just mentioned, then you'll get to a debt ratio of 86 percent, where all credit rating agencies are talking about 80 percent debt ratio going down credit rating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] That is, we have to prepare for the development of Austria's credit quality down in the next few months and years and it will be downgraded. In other words, interest rates are going up and the interest rate is going to increase dramatically. [[Abg. Wheeler: Alternatives?]] That is this fatal view that represents this federal government. [[Abg. Wheelers: proposals?]] According to the motto “Behind us the Flood!” politics is being conducted, ladies and gentlemen of this federal government behind us! Behind us the flood! – This is the credo, which is the motto you make politics according to – at the expense of the next generations, to our children and grandchildren. They move all decisions into the future, do not boldly pick up the reforms that would be necessary to save the next generations of this mess, this drama. Let us accuse you of this, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Wheelers: proposals?]] You said yesterday that we did not get rid of the crisis. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are the crisis!]] Yes, of course, we haven't gotten out of the crisis, at least you've really recognized that, but now I'm asking you the following: If you come to this finding when you come to the analysis that we already have a high level of debt, in the case of a tax revenue that is no longer excitable – we are a “national park high taxes” – how will you solve the future tasks? I would also like to ask the Members of the SPÖ and the ÖVP. How are you going to deal with the challenges of the next few years when it comes to halting the next economic crisis? Unemployment goes up, cost development goes up. How, then, do you want to save the banks that are now gradually presenting their balance sheets, where under the rule a mis-nut comes out? [[Abg. May. Kogler: What do you even want?]] How would you like to finance the net contributions to the European Union, which will increase by 400 million per year? [[Call to the ÖVP:Proposals?]] How do you want to finance the rescue shields that you decide to do so gradually? – Now on the weekend: a new increase to 2 trillion €. But these are some of the views you have! This is a policy that is simply and simply no longer acceptable and no longer responsible to the people of our country, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And then, in the light of this development, we hear from the Federal Minister, the budget is the policy cast in numbers, or similar. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: proposals?]] – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is not politics that you put into figures here, but alarm bells that you cast into numbers, because these alarm bells are ringing now, and they are ringing the end of our welfare state. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: proposals?]] This is the reality we stand before! You can't hide that we're missing the money – even today the money is missing! – to deal with the most elementary tasks in the field of education policy in our country. From kindergarten funding to universities, we already lack the money. How do you want to save half the world in the future if the money is already scarce for the most important tasks and governance instruments that the state has to perform, such as in the field of administration, health care, in the field of care, in the field of pensions? You have not solved the problem in the care problem, you have only realized that there is a problem, and it is now only solved for two years. [[Call the ÖVP: Go!]] In addition, there are no concepts, there are no solutions. The problems you've recognized, you've only moved into the future, or you haven't done anything. The pensions are far from safe, you know. The problem comes back to us in the next two or three years. No one wants to sit on the government bench anymore. There will only be more horrors to decide because you are moving all these important future decisions into the coming years, because you do not have the courage to recognize that the decisions are now to be made, because the longer you expect, the more expensive it will be for taxpayers. That is why we say: Enoughly paid!, and that is why we point to this circumstance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The President of the Court of Auditors once again stressed yesterday that 40 percent of the total budget only covers interest and pensions, i.e. that the scope for action is getting smaller and smaller. You are getting smaller and smaller from year to year, and by doing so you can already calculate what this means in five, which will mean in ten years, Mrs Federal Minister. [[Abg. May. Kogler: make a suggestion!]] There will be much smaller room for play because you are pledged to the future because you are no longer eligible to finance the future with debt and interest and the most elementary tasks to maintain the state function. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] This is the reality before which we stand: 10 billion € go up for interest service alone – 10 billion €, you have to imagine that! All these are money that flows mostly abroad. That's drain abroad! 8 billion of them go abroad, ladies and gentlemen! And here, Mrs Federal Minister, are you talking about an example function in Austria within the European Union? You should choose models that are real models. If we look at Switzerland, we can also focus on Sweden! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Sweden makes a surplus of €10 billion and you make a loss in Austria at almost the same height. The further they are away from the euro zone, the better the countries are balancing, that is the reality. Don't shut your eyes to reality, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And then you say that you want to continue the consolidation path and the path of the balanced budget. You don't do that! You don't do that: You make new debts, you increase interest rate service. They are far away, yes, light years away from complying with the 60 percent limit. So I would recommend you get off the road once. Maybe it will be possible to clean up the budget. That is why it is so crucial, ladies and gentlemen, that we finally tackle the reforms in Austria, including in tax policy. It is a nonsense, Mr Cap, to dream of a rich tax, to scrape these 80 000 millionaires, a complete nonsense, I say to you. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Why?]] And if you catch them with what I know, 80 000 opinions, then 300 million of taxes come out. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Bad?]] You will not be able to stop with €300 million the deficit hole, which now accounts for €8 billion, you know. This costs only in the administration, in the tax administration a lot of money – you finance a lot of experts with it – but under the rule the problem is not solved. That is why we will not give you the pleasure of giving a rich tax our consent, because it is not possible to solve the problems that this Republic faces. That's reality. You should also take note of this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I have read special treats concerning the rehabilitation of health insurance companies: You managed to clean up the health insurance funds because you took 150 million € out of the control pot and put it into the health insurances. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Kickl]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Planlos, completely planless!]] That's what you're talking about. Rehabilitation. – Yes, we need to be afraid and afraid when a Finance Minister speaks of the fact that the health insurance companies are now being rehabilitated because the taxpayer has taken over this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Tell me, Mrs Finanzminister, what do you understand? You under renovation? – You know, a rehabilitation would have been if you had put these 22 social security institutions together in a social insurance institution for all, whether they are officials, self-employed, farmers or whatever. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] That would have been a sensible reform. They are operating the construction of the future, and we will certainly not take part in this robbery.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e4081	Mr Faymann is now speaking. As agreed, I set the clock to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e4102	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! There are a number of recurring common places in my previous speakers, to which it is relatively difficult to take a specific position. [[Call:In the budget speech, too]] I therefore try to comment on the points that have been formulated more specifically. On those points which have been formulated more specifically, about the last of the health insurance companies, one has to say: Yes, it is true that we have needed additional resources from the budget – for tasks that we have repeatedly assigned to the health insurance companies in recent years and decades, that is, benefits we have required of them – in order to initiate the recovery of the health insurance companies significantly, but at the same time they have... – Yes, but the question of how many of them do is the one, but the question of how they do it and what they have done together is the more realistic. [[Abg. Grosz: And why didn't you put them together?]] [[Abg. Grosz: 22?! 22?- Oh, my God!]] And you have to admit that today, €600 million of debt is less present, and that in the cost reduction alone, the cash registers have carried out their tasks, which we have agreed with them in the order of €500 million. So this is a good example of a structurally correct procedure that we must continue. [[Abg. Bookbook: The taxpayer has it...!]] I remember that in the election campaign very often the health insurance companies played a big role because someone went from the opposition to the speaker's desk and said: We will no longer be able to afford all of this! People will look if they don't get any benefits. They will reduce the benefits in the health system. – What have we really done? We are one of the few countries in Europe where the Minister of Health can stand and say that he does not operate any reductions in benefits and that the health insurance schemes have been safeguarded a little more by these measures in the past. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Capital taxes, proposals made by the Greens in the speech: I can only remind you of that – and this also applies to the 2012 budget, but of course it is already starting in the 2011 budget – which capital-related taxes there are not even available in the years 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, which were thus added and re-established under this government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I tell you: the bank levy € 520 million; Measures in the field of corporate tax, interest deductions on acquisition of equity in corporations, Stiftungsbe tax et cetera €300 million; capital growth tax, securities, KESt €30 to €50 million; and concrete additional revenue in the fight against tax evasion €200 million. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not executableable! The banks can't even do that...!]] This is therefore a total amount of about one billion in this area of better fighting against tax sinners, bank charges, so that we also demand a levy to the financial sector for reasons of fairness, and the compensation in the area such as the interest deduction that I mentioned when acquiring shares in corporations, foundations or other areas, increase in securities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] – 1 billion €! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker:... Bank customers!]] Now, of course, someone can say, there's more: The OECD and others repeatedly point out that we have too high taxes in the field of work and that, for example, in the field of land – and I am talking about amounts of over € 1 million, I do not mean the house builder and the tenant – have too little in European comparison. [[Abg. Kickl: Who's the interest-rate house then?]] There are different models. There are models like in many countries that you tax the increase in value that has arisen when someone sells a property. There are other models over € 1 million, which are in the area of wealth. Yes, these are the tasks we have to do. But what you unfortunately do not recognize us, therefore we say so clearly, is the following: 1 billion € additional taxes in this area is not some unfulfilled promise, but a measure that can also be read in the 2012 budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that saving in the sense of short-term savings must also be taken to the fore at the same time, whether it is a reduction in performance or red tape, i.e. whether it is efficiency improvement or short-term benefits. [[Abg. Hagen: Or in the case of expenditure!]] – But the question of expenditure is: Is it an issue for bureaucracy and settlement? Can you make it more efficient? For example, we have four concrete proposals to improve efficiency in the proceedings we are discussing with the federal states this Friday in order to make additional savings. This includes the transparency database. [[Abg. Kickl: Great! Great! That you even trust to mention them!]] There are a number of correct measures to show whether, if someone from different sides receives a promotion, community, country, federal government which could perform one better than three, whether there are overlaps that are not justified, issues of administrative jurisdiction and many more points. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the Agg. Hörl.]] So there are a number of expenditures that are cut short in order to improve efficiency. And here the Court of Auditors has certainly made very valuable proposals, of which we have also taken up a very concrete part, otherwise you would prove to us that we have reduced massively in the short time of the budgets over the last two years. However, you have very few examples where you suspect a reduction in benefits – in the care sector, for example, which you repeatedly mention, or in the single-earner discount rate, in the family area, which you repeatedly mention with the family allowance – but we can always prove that it is in the respective sector – especially in care! – a total of more expenditure. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Families!]] [[Abg. Kickl: It's all insignificant!]] In other words, we have put in place measures in individual areas that have either improved efficiency or individual reductions in performance that you charge us, but can prove that, in total, in our social and health system, we are actually at the forefront of extra expenditure in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Wonderful Increase of Money!]] There are some in Europe. Compare no country that spends more on care and provides more health care than we do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] So it's right: This time again, we have presented a budget which takes great account of savings and investment, consolidation and social balance. It is right for someone to say that everything needs to be increased, because economic growth for the next year is less forecast than for today's, so there must be an increase in efforts. This is a call that I believe is in principle correct, because no one has the right to rest on any previous achievements. No, no, no, There are great tasks ahead, but if they are addressed with social balance when dealing with fairness and justice when they are approached with sparingness and investment, I know that Austria will continue to fulfil this role model in Austria. [[Call:Austria?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e4369	Mr Vice-Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger has now spoken. I'll set the clock back to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e4390	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We had a situation in 2011, where at the beginning of the year we looked very forward to economic development; the first half of the year was also a very good economic year. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then came Loipersdorf!]] In the second half of the year, we have seen that the economic downturn for the next year is announcing and that we are constantly confronted with new news, especially in the European Union, which goes in the following direction: Nervousness in the capital market, we do not know how it continues in Greece. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't know how it goes! That's the problem!]] It is a totally uncertain future that we are forecast to be. I believe that in this situation, it is therefore perfectly right to set up a budget which sets out safe and stable finances for the future; and I thank Maria Fekter for ensuring that this budget has also been implemented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we look at the budget for next year, then the principles become quite clear. On the one hand, this is a consolidation course, which partially restores state finances. The fact that we are forecast to be 3.2 percent deficit next year shows that we are coming back to the Maastricht criteria of 3%, which are also defined by international experts as the level to which a deficit can be accounted for. It is therefore perfectly right to push this back step by step towards the Maastricht criteria. That's why I thank you again. This is good work that the Minister of Finance has done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We see that the budget ensures that we are moving forward the savings course in the ministries. That's painful, yes, and every place has to do the best out of this distress, out of this dictatorship of empty cash. This is difficult, but it is also known to make it inventive, and we will consistently advance this course towards budgetary consolidation on the expenditure side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It is also a good signal that in the future we are also trying very efficiently to do our state tasks. Thirdly, however, we also see that we need to invest properly. What becomes visible in the budget is that we are moving towards environmental protection in the area of thermal renovation. These €100 million towards promotions also show that they trigger investment, that many are also privately willing to take part in the bag so that they will contribute to a better environmental situation in the future. We invest in education. We recently organised an Economic Council, where Austria's entrepreneurs were gathered around a table and told us: For the Austrian site, it is crucial that we invest in education in the future and that we remain low on taxes. Both are the right recipe that we guarantee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] We also invest where it is important for many Austrians: Afternoon care at schools. This means that compatibility between family and profession will be better possible in the future, and everyone knows that the children are also well removed and are cared for in the afternoon. It is also right to get into the bag, even in difficult situations, and to invest there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the medium and long-term goals! Of course, we must move forward in the direction of saving expenditure on the one hand, raising the potential for efficiency and reducing budget costs on the other. This is a direction that will start with the 2012 budget and will continue until 2015, when we look at our financial framework. I'll bet you: We also need to make cuts with the big cost drivers. Early pensions, as we see them today, are not the standard for tomorrow. We must therefore move in this direction, and there must be more action than we currently have on the table! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Why don't you do it?]] I am also very much in favour of setting a long-term goal in debt, that we say: Deblamation of Austria! This is a long-term goal, but you know as well as we do that this is not feasible from today to tomorrow. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Start with this!]] [[Abg. Strache: Have you had 30 years!]] And if I hear your speech, Mr Klubobmann Strache, that you say that we want to make tough cuts in debt while at the same time making proposals on how we are responsible for extra expenditure in this country, then this is not true, and this may also be said as a criticism of you. [[Abg. Strache: For 30 years you have had time in the government!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, If you tell us to do everything just for your own country, it sounds wonderful. But, ladies and gentlemen, what is reality? - We're an export nation. Every second job in this country is export-related. I do not want us to put these jobs at risk. On the contrary! We must ensure that exports in this country remain a driving force for economic recovery. We want to ensure that in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Allow me also to criticise Mr Klubobmann Bucher, who explains here: debt, debt, debt. - Yes, we know this problem. But I'm asking you: Where was your group when we decided so many measures in this House in September 2008? – You were there: to reduce the sales tax on medicines, to abolish the tuition fees, you were in this house everywhere, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the BZÖ:Well! Come on! Come on!]] That must also be said. You're not the one who's serious about what you're gonna do to us here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's what we were! You've got to be just!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Let me also say something about structural reforms! Mrs Glavischnig has told us today that we are not doing anything for structural reforms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] We are already doing something for structural reforms on Friday! If we go in the direction of reorganising the judicial organisation in Austria, which has been negotiating in this country for 30 years, and there we reach a conclusion and say that we will re-establish this if we decide to deregulation measures with the countries when we go towards a reorganisation of the Federal Office for Asylum and Migration, then these are huge steps into the future. And I'll bet you: Yes, we have more to do! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes! Much more!]] But let's start with it. [[Call the BZÖ:Yes, start it!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kickl and Mr Mag. Kogler.]] I am eager to see if you agree to these laws in the House. This needs a two-thirds majority, and I expect you not only to be critical, but also to agree! Then we are on a good path in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e4627	The speakers of the next round have a speaking time of 7 minutes each. The first is Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e4648	Madam President. Praise of the economic researchers, praise of the experts, criticism of the opposition. In this way, it is essentially possible to sum up the reactions to the budget presented yesterday. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have also criticized!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, read the paper, Mr. Colleague!]] I believe that at least we have received the praise from the right side, namely the economic researchers and the experts. We did not count on the praise of the opposition. But if we look at the way Austria stands and look at the most important key figures – whether this is the new debt, the debt rate, the labour market data – we are at the front of Europe with almost all the key figures. In the case of unemployment, we have even the lowest level in the European Union and are envied by most of the countries of this continent. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: 50,000 more than before the crisis!]] If you are in contact with other European politicians – perhaps not the FPÖ because they do not want to contact European politicians, but if you are in contact – then you will also hear how envied we are about our figures and how cautiously politics has actually acted in Austria, so that we have come out of the crisis much better than almost all other European states. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not an expert!]] This right policy is now continuing. We have not made the mistake that some countries have made, namely to save themselves even deeper into the crisis, but we have also made sure, for example, that we create fair revenue, that those who were also guilty of the crisis also make a fair contribution to the financing of the costs of this crisis. [[Abg. Kickl: Please?! That's a fair contribution?! This is a new definition of justice!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] This is done, for example, by the bank levying, each year, by requiring and receiving a contribution from the banks for the restoration, for the payment of the costs of the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, together in this Federal Government, we have also made sure that those who have so far made no or little contribution also make a proper contribution, such as, for example, by jointly introducing the tax on speculation profits by increasing the tax on foundation taxes, and so on. These were also very, very important revenue-based steps to ensure fair and fair compensation for the costs of the crisis. However, we also take offensive measures. For example, this year we are investing 100 million € in the thermal renovation process again and are launching a lot of orders for our local businesses, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. We're creating jobs with that. We ensure that we make a better contribution to the Kyoto objective by preserving the environment. We also protect the exchanges of Austrians, as they have lower heating costs. A true example of sustainable policy, which we continue and support with this budget. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: “Low heating costs” you have to explain again!]] We also invest in the development of all day schools and thus create the freedom of choice for parents, whether they want to bring their children to a half day school or a full day school. We also create more opportunities for children, because we know that all day schools of course offer better opportunities, especially for children from disadvantaged families, where parents cannot be so supportive in the education of their children. We are investing additional funds in research and development in order to continue to have top-trained workers in the future to keep the country's know-how and also to have competitive businesses, thus creating and securing jobs for tomorrow. In this respect, it is absolutely necessary to support this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But we also know that an essential reason why we are so good is our labour market and our low unemployment. We know that unemployment is extremely expensive, because you do not only have fewer tax revenues, but also need to finance more people in unemployment. Although we have these low figures, but above all perhaps because we have them and want to have them in the future, we will invest more than €1 billion in active labour market policies next year, precisely because we want to ensure that those affected by unemployment are qualified or requalified and we want to support them in finding a new job and not just in unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But of course there are also measures that I could imagine which are not yet included in the budget. If we look at the field of education – because it was addressed – then it is so, and it is internationally undisputed that those countries that have a common school of the 6- to 14-year-olds, of course, have much better results with PISA, but also with many other performance tests. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, of course!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Have you read this seriously?]] We in Austria have an overall school, a common school, which goes only up to 10 and not until 14. Of course, it would be much more efficient and just to introduce the common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds in Austria, and in the long term there will be no way forward. In fact, only two things need to be done, namely courage and thoughtful concepts. Both are available, it is only up to implementation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, we are rightly criticised by IMF, OECD and others that we still have far too much tax on labour and labour income, but wealth, income and capital income are far too low. If in Austria 100 € are earned by performance, by work, then this is taxed with more than 40 €. If you earn 100 € by a capital income, this is taxed at less than 25 €. This alone shows that we are very unfairly taxing incomes in relation to non-profit incomes, capital and wealth incomes. Of course, the millionaire tax is an answer, and it would be very efficient and fair to introduce the millionaire tax. I also believe that in the long term no way will pass through it. Hiezu, of course, needs courage and a thoughtful concept. But it's not a problem, because it's both present. The last question I wanted to answer is the numbers that Clubobmann has mentioned here. He meant that the tax and tax rate was 44 percent. So you're making us worse than we are. It is 42 percent and is falling for the third year in a row. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Why is this bad for a social democrat? Are you neoliberal?]] We have a falling tax and tax rate and no rising. If you say that the debt has been reduced by black and blue, that's half right. In the mid-1990s, we had over 68 percent of the government debt – you can see the figures of the minister – and then under red and black, under 60 percent, and the revised figures are just about that. Circa half, a little less, has been saved by blue-black and a little more than half by red-black. So we can share the success. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e4850	The next item is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e4872	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The 2012 budget, which we are discussing today, falls into an economic and political environment that can hardly be more turbulent than it is. Europe is heading towards a dramatic height of the sovereign debt crisis. The EU itself faces the biggest challenge it has ever faced. The Monetary Fund says that the whole world economy is entering a dangerous phase. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no wonder that the people who live in our country are worried and anxious about jobs, about savings, about the future. That is why it is easy to know that we have a budget to discuss here, for which the motto “stable finances for a secure future” applies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just happening at a time when so many turbulences are emerging around us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Mr Mag. Kogler, we have, of course – and there you were also involved, I mention this quite positively – made certain adjustments by adopting the Federal Financial Framework Act, with expenditure cover for the next four years. This was done from the following experience: If you have the spending under control, you also have a budget under control. Nevertheless, today we say: That's too little. We are in favour of a constitutional debt brake, for a simple reason: As much as the Federal Financial Framework Act is a best-practice model in the EU and has very, very many advantages, one must honestly say one thing: [[Abg. May. Stefan: Outside!]] You can lift the lid by a simple majority each year, this happened in the previous year. In the previous year, the cover for social security, social security and pensions for 2014 was increased by €2.8 billion, by a simple majority. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] That is why we say that this cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom. We want a constitutional provision, the Constitution is a brake. One can also change a constitutional provision, but that is much, much more difficult than increasing borders with simple legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore understand – and I am speaking to my colleagues from the Socialist Group – that your opposition to this constitutional debt brake is not yours. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you, who are constantly talking about social justice, I ask: Please, what is more socially unfair than that the little man with his tax must finance what cash those who otherwise are your enemy images – the banks, the foundations, the financial markets, the so-called empires. This is a classic redistribution from bottom to top, and yet you are against a constitutional debt brake. I don't understand that honestly. This is similar to the study contributions. The small worker must also co-finance that the son of the Director-General can study for free. But again: In social justice, you're on one eye, I think, a little bit, I wouldn't say blind, but you'll see a little bad on one eye when you're talking about social justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the proposals made here by both the Federal Chancellor and my previous speaker, and there was a constant discussion of new taxes. I also defend myself against language manipulation. Here the language is manipulated in an incredible way. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Fair, social, just!]] Mr Krainer, you spoke again about the millionaire tax. If you look at the proposals, which are all very little concrete, you can see: The peak tax rate is to be increased, but today it is starting at €60 000 a year. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Krainer and Dr. Matznetter.]] If you look at other proposals, this is €200 000. I admit, 200 000 € is very, very much money. [[Abg. Krainer: This is what you need to regulate in-party!]] But a millionaire is for me a millionaire who gets at least one million or more. So there is an incredibly populist way of manipulating the language, and you have to defend yourself against it. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Education tax!]] Apart from this, we do not have tax increases for us, regardless of whether property taxes or so-called wealth taxes, as long as we have savings potential. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need, of course, a strategic triangle – and the Minister of Finance indicated this yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] We need a dampening of expenditure. We need structural reforms, and we need impetus for growth and employment. Now, of course, all the better knowers say, and that's all the opposition, that's all too little. The expenditure limits are too limited. The structural reforms are too few. The impetus for growth and employment, Mrs Glavischnig, is too little. Everything's too little. Now I'm asking You really are: Why are these structural measures, where the facts and data are on the table, not implemented? – The data and facts are on the table, we know that pensions cost 1 billion a year earlier in pension. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The Germans go to pension three years later, so in comparison to Germany we spend 3 billions each year not on research or development, but on pensions. In health, we know exactly that the OECD averages 1 000 people, 3.9 hospital beds, in Austria 6.1. We know that in the EU average, the rate of support is 2.7 percent of GDP, and in us it is twice as high, i.e. 5.5 percent. Now I'm asking You really are: Why are these measures not put in place? Yesterday, in an interview with the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” of the Dean of the Faculty of Social and Economic Sciences of the University of Linz, University Professor Cocca, said something very nice – and that is the truth – he said: because these structural measures do not find democratic majority. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] This is the point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's not true! In Parliament, you have a constitutional majority immediately!]] Mrs Glavischnig, if I add which proposals you put in committees, these proposals cost two-digit billions. Here you step out and criticize the government. In reality, you operate pure populism. The truth is, you are constantly demanding more. If we realized your claims, we would have a debt explosion. You must be as honest as you are, Mrs. Colleague. Look at your own applications! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: Five parties are in the house for this! Say something to the school administration!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in today's dramatic period, a close-up of all political parties and the social partners would be necessary. What you're doing is: They are constantly trying to change only political change. That cannot be the solution, Mrs Colleague. Take a little responsibility! It is clear to me that opposition is much more pleasant, because you can criticize everything, know everything better, no question at all, but in today's time it would be necessary for you to take on political responsibility and not to act populistly here and at the same time place demands in the committees that mean double-digit billions. They say debt reduction – I am speaking to Mr Bucher: We have an administrative deficit of €9 billion in the 2012 budget. Debt reduction can only be if I have a surplus rather than a deficit. Come on. You out and tell me – Mr Strache is also invited –: How can we achieve 9 billion in the next year through expenditure savings? [[Abg. Bucher: I have already given you fifty examples!]] Come out and tell us that, but don't give populist speeches! [[Abg. That's what the Court of Auditors has already told you! 5 billion savings!]] Come on. You're out and you're saying, How can we reduce debt by saving 9 billion next year? Come out!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5087	Next, Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5108	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I am glad that I have had Mr Colleagues as a previous speaker, because he is a great example of the credibility of the ÖVP in terms of debt reduction and debt reduction. I looked at this again: I think you came to the Ministry of Finance at the beginning of the 1990s, Mr President. At that time, the debt mountain was €76.5 billion. Since 2000, you have been chairman of the Financial Committee in this House. In 2000, the debt was €140 billion. In the meantime we write the year 2011, you are still chairman of the Financial Committee, and we have 280 billion euros of government debt. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stache: Mr. Stumbling, congratulations! Really great!]] So this is your record of success, and that shows how credible it is when you make yourself here. They are just as unbelievable as Mr Krainer, who has previously presented the new justice strategy of social democracy as an example of the bank levy. She looks like this: As a bank, you do a 100 percent damage, of this 100 percent damage you do well again 10 percent. – The comrades then understand this as a contribution to justice, even if they have to pay bank customers and final consumers. Good night, Social Democracy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All I have heard yesterday and today from the representatives of the Federal Government and from the speakers of the two government groups in the course of this – and there you have to choose the euphemistic variant, if you call it a budget debate – debate, that confirms me in an adoption – and this is unfortunately not a good result for Austria, ladies and gentlemen: This assumption is that until today, SPÖ and ÖVP, that is, the red emergency and the black misery, which have become a pro-pore system and a permanent coalition, have not even come to understand and understand that things and measures which are of economic disadvantage to the Austrian population and constitute a damage, can not be politically and state-politically responsible and intelligent for this alone. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You have not understood this to this day, but it would be so easy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister for Finance did not understand it, Mr Vice-Chancellor did not understand it, and I am not talking about the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany; it would have been a miracle if he had understood it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Such an Oberg’scheiter!]] [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Stummvoll) You could have proved it in the last 20 years!]] That is why this budget is saddened by the state of this federal government. This budget and the debate as you conduct it show once again how far you are away from the population, because the Austrian population knows very well that your course – and now the real three pillars of this budget – is the pure opposite of what we need in this admittedly tense situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] These are the three pillars of your budget: Taxation, refusal of reform and debt making. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what you're presenting to us. You are still on the road as a ghost driver against the interests of your own population by simply continuing the burden budget of Josef Pröll's unscrupulous political remembrance. That's the whole performance you've celebrated in the last few days here. Ladies and gentlemen, you from red and black and you here on the government bank have to imagine the world like this: So please, the fear that people might not be sure about their money, they're all just brain-spinned, there's no real substrate behind it, all just imagination, and guilt isn't the speculators, guilt isn't the banks, guilt are the evil populists. - We've known that since yesterday. [[Abg. Wheeler: The rights!]] Because of the fear of the population, not the Gauners in Greece are guilty, are not those who have done any immoral business, one after another, who are not guilty, but the evil populists. [[Abg. That's what you are!]] That's your view of things! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They will probably also believe that the experiences, ladies and gentlemen, who make the population when they go shopping, realize that they get less and less for the same 10 € – the thing is inflation – to be banished into the realm of science fiction. All of this isn't real, it probably doesn't exist. And if people imagine that, then they have indeed become the victims of the evil populists who claim it. – That’s how it sounded yesterday from Mrs Finanzminister’s mouth! If people worry about bank operations, where on Monday the week one speaks of making billions of profits, and three days later it turns out that one has actually put billions in the sand, and if the people are scared then this is all without any influence on the situation of the population. This has nothing to do with people, no problem at all. And if people worry, it's the evil populists, but not the banks, not the speculators, not the Greeks, not the EU. – Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer possible at all at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now one might want to think, if you already have no money and only debt from the SPÖ and ÖVP, then you might at least have an idea. An idea would then be appropriate, namely an idea which is not to cut and tax further, but to finally save meaningfully. And if you don't have the idea yourself, you could take on the idea of people who already broke their heads over it. I do not want to force you to access the FPÖ proposals. [[Abg. Wöger: 10 billion!]] [[Abg. Street: (in the direction of ÖVP) The Court of Auditors speaks from 11 to 12 billion! Read!]] Take the Austrian Convention! Take this round of very intelligent heads that have broken their heads for months on how to change something in the structure! Is it now also evil populists, because they have shown you where you can raise billions of potentials that you prefer to leave to continue making debts and so that you can put on the red pen in one area, especially in the social field, in the families and the caregivers, which would not be necessary at all if you had only one second the mumm, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with your own country leaders for a single time?- Oh, my God! That would be the way to success! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only tell you that this budget inwards, into the administration, into the bureaucracy, into the structure, into the area where there is discharge potential, is nothing but a single proclamation of the standstill and the refusal of reform. That's this budget inside, ladies and gentlemen. And if you look at this budget externally, that is still the European Union for me; I know that many of you have seen it quite differently in the meantime, but for me it is still an external relationship – if you look at the budget from this point of view, then, ladies and gentlemen, then it is a fixed record of the ever-lasting hearing of this European Union and nothing else at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: An Eternal Bullyer!]] If you are talking about stability in this context, it can only mean that the European Union can firmly rely on you to continue your contribution in the future to bring up millions of unapproachable countries and to use our tax money for dubious shields.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5334	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5385	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In this hysterical mess, it may be helpful to note once that certain problems can only be solved at an international level. It doesn't help, ladies and gentlemen of BZÖ and FPÖ: What you are criticizing here may even be true here or there, but the solution is certainly not in Carinthia; it is not even in Austria alone. We will only get under control at European level, and some things will only be more global. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hoefinger.]] That is why we should put this whole loot on the side and deal with the Austrian budget. Look, Mrs. Federal Minister, it's true: It's not all bad in this country. On the contrary: Austria is relatively good at that! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Höfinger and Mr Rädler on his excellent work.]] That is why I say this in the first place so that we can bring back a system of coordination. It's not all bad. On the contrary! However, by the way, we already live very much from the bacon in the pantry, from where we are getting more and more out, but the pantry is no longer sufficiently filled. It must also be clear to us as a whole that – and here you are completely blind, not just on one eye, but on both, you of the ÖVP – there have been quite clear developments over the last ten, fifteen years that have heightened the social discrepancy in this country. And that would not be necessary because Austria as a whole is not that bad; we just said it. So it would have to be possible, even in the background of the 2008/09 economic crisis and in front of the threatening – we do not need to close ourselves now, so open our eyes again! – that, with the basis that exists in this country, we still have something hopeful to do in economic and financial policy, and this is primarily budgetary policy. And you have to do this more innovatively and justly. It would be a lot possible. Mr. Dr. Stummvoll has requested proposals from the opposition. We shall tell you what is going on in seven minutes or now five minutes' speaking time. But the disappointment now begins with your budget speech or what was written to you yesterday, Mrs Fekter. That was already an event – once again; better than with Grasser, but still – the intransparency. It was relatively uninspired, measured by what might be possible. It was also not innovative, but still-managing, and this makes you look deeply when you look at the revenue side of the budget, because you – which is not typical of budget debates – are always talking about the ÖVP, and when I look at the other side, you are talking about the millionaire taxes and the alleged justice concepts in this regard. That is why this should also play a role in this budget debate. So intrusive, uninspired, little innovative, because you just continue writing, and especially unfair. But let's keep the transparency going. I must take it with me again, because the principle of budgetary truth simply needs to be respected or the principle of half honest budget speeches. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That's exactly what we did!]] Look, Mrs. Federal Minister: In your writing of yesterday you used 42 pages. A quarter of this is dedicated to the chapter “Environment and Climate Change”. That alone is worth a comment – at least from the point of view of our group. Six lines! - Yeah, yeah, the 100 million you apostrophic in there, right there we're coming. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: But 100 million!]] Maybe you haven't checked what's going on yet, and only your writer went on the glue. I'm telling you what's the matter now. They claim or have 100 million more – or 140 million – written there for environmental protection and climate protection. The fact is that 94 million of these are payments – I have to simplify them now – that have to do with our failure, that of the Republic of Austria, in terms of climate protection. It is de facto – I am going to cut off once again – that it is about fines or pre-emptive purchases in Kyoto. That means 94 million more than in the previous year; it was enough, we have already criticized it. This is a de facto damage caused by the inaction of the Minister for the Environment, who is always inserting and not ruling. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And this damage is a benefit to you in your budget, and do you still link this nonsense with reading it? – That’s what we mean by intruding speech or writing. That's quite by the way! Just as you always say the colleges have more money. - You have less money. If you correct everything, then you'll find that a plus of 0.7 percent remains. It's really a loss, that's quite clear. And that's exactly what they feel out there at the universities – and you're giving big speeches at the government table here! [[Abg. Hörl: make suggestions!]] That's not how it is! So clean up dirt and dizziness once on the side! It's a bad tradition. Now on the issues of expenditure, revenue and then perhaps on income structure and fiscal justice. – Of course you can, you have to do something about expenditure. It is not right, Dr. stupidly, what you are saying is that we Greens are always making proposals for savings and proposals for funding. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: For example?]] We would be much faster to implement this so-called administrative reform in the field of school administration. The army hospitals are still unproductive in the area. We have a hospital which is cost-provoking. It's not about having to offer less service, you could do much more. But we know who is regularly opposed to all these proposals. I can't hear you meet with the heads of state again on Friday. This is a guarantee that nothing happens! So either You're now convincing your black country leaders, or something else has to go on. But here it is about twenty million, and of course you could need it in colleges, in schools or in kindergartens. Of course! [[Abg. Hörl: proposals!]] You have the problem in your own parties on a regular basis, so do not lighten Parliament with it, nor do the opposition party, the Greens, who are always making counter-proposals here. One last thing about justice. It is a question of the tax structure. Of course! We would go on to do something about capital taxes. A little bit has happened – the chancellor has mentioned it – but these taxes would essentially be employment-neutral, because they do no harm on the labour market if they are finally taxed by millions. It is unique in the world, in the OECD world, that this kind of tax no longer exists. We are a tax paradise for millions of heirs, for Foundation artists and for super-rich people; I have to use this term, I have no genius at all. It is! If we did more there and reached the OECD section – the OECD cut or the OECD won't be so strange to you – then that would be €4 billion. If we only hit half, it would be €2 billion. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I propose to you: to develop in this direction for the next few years, to use the revenue for deficit reduction and hence for debt reduction, and to reduce labour-related taxes. Then we would soon have fewer deficits and later, in a few years, more tax justice. This also gave rise to something for employment and the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5513	Next, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5534	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's already strange: I just imagine some people sitting in front of the TV and looking at this debate actually agreeing on what's going on. You have to imagine this: The clubman comes out of his head, makes himself and says: I am against new debts! and at the same time he decides with a budget where new debts are made again; and then Mr Krainer comes out of the SPÖ and praises the budget over the green clover, how great it is, and at the same time he is quoted today with the statement that the budget speech of the Minister for Finance was not worthy of the House! – Maybe there are two cranes, I don't know, maybe that was another one. [[Abg. Bookbooker: cheese taps!]] But the crane in the paper has nothing to do with the one who spoke today. Actually, I wanted to give him the right thing: Her speech was not worthy, Mrs Finanzminister – not only for this House, but even for the finances of this Republic! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have forgotten Mr. Stumbling, who always comes here with the same leader, saying: You don't have any suggestions! Mr President, I would like to present to you here – so beautifully – an Austrian spa book of the BZÖ, prepared by Klubobmann Bucher. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That's what the bar said!]] [[The speaker keeps an orange savings book up to date.]] There are all our measures inside: Savings of € 7.2 billion. You can then pick it up and read it. These are real measures that bring forward the state and the people in that country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, one could really make it easy today as an opposition politician, because, contrary to Mr Krainer's claim, all the experts would be so great, would talk about the budget, is it not so, and you could go here today and quote only, you could produce and quote only, for, Mrs Minister, it is devastating what is today in the newspapers, in the comments and in the expert opinions about you – this is not there, even interesting! – to read about your budget and your budget speech, it is devastating what you have presented here, not only from the content you have failed in, but also from the lecture. [[Abg. Grosz: The minister is not here!]] [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to quote something from the “Kurier” for example. I quote: “Woman Fekter has read a text that was not intended for speaking, but at best for reading. In addition, there is a problem: She's a bad reader". - Not bad! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Bitch.]] It also says here: “... their intonation is unnatural and gets the character of an unscrupulously presented school essay.” – These are expert opinions from today’s “Kurier”. And then it goes on to say that everything is “a single language sausage ” and“ the lecture of the head of the department is not close to the people. ” That's exactly the point: You've lost any ground liability! You have no idea where people are actually pushing the shoe. Its only concern is the European Union, are the Greeks you are wearing after the billions, while the Greek billionaires have already brought their money outside Switzerland. – That’s actually the mistake you’re making here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or another quote, from an editorial from the “Economic Sheet”: “Every Austrian citizen, who also has only one spark of political commitment and economic understanding, leaves behind the statements of the Minister of Finance with an unbeliever headshake.” And in an editorial from the “Small Newspaper” it says – I quote –: “The 2012 budget is inconceivable...” And then we're going to go on: “With the 2012 budget, the government has missed its last chance to create financial scope. In the face of various crises and major dangers, this is grossly negligent.” And it goes on this way, side by side: The “Salzburger Nachrichten” (“Salzburg News”. And the “Economic Sheet” writes: ‘not to keep the medium-term budget’. You can choose it: These are the experts who shoot you with your budget in truth through the sun and the moon, and that's right because it's visionless and inconceivable and because your policy really doesn't understand the people in this country anymore. – That’s what we blame you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now to your day before. On page 9 – look at this!; you can read that thank God all this is available in writing – the woman minister proclaimed her four pillars, and at the end of page 41 only three columns were made out of these four columns. I claim: If you had read 10 more pages, the whole work would have collapsed because there are no columns left. This is absurd, which has actually been commanded – a speech that contradicts itself from the front to the back, and from the content here is in truth a madness, where the word “loipersdorf” occurs twice as often as the words “reforms” and “ideas”! It's also interesting how stupid that's all: Yes, beautiful Loipersdorf, they can't do anything for the government to hide its name here and prove it with this budget! They should actually defend themselves. Maybe there's a theme in Loipersdorf, we'll see, it would be interesting. In reality, however, what was left of this budget speech and of the budget as a whole was nothing but a good self-esteem. That was remarkable, it was interesting, that almost imponed me! A self-reliance, because the Minister of Finance has told us: Austria is a high tax country, Austria is a university country, and Austria has to do with a bureaucracy that is actually looking for the same! – This is actually a capitulation that has been announced there. And this Minister of Finance is just coming from that party that is debt-kaisers in this country – from the ÖVP. You have the responsibility for this debt mountain that will be imposed on the next generation! It will also have to live with it. [[We welcome Mr Strache and Mr Mag. Stefan.]] The budget path, the high-priced budget path – that's what the squats of the roof and all the experts say – can't keep at all. This cannot be held because it is based on completely false economic forecasts, all of which are no longer applicable, and therefore this budget – and everyone will say it already – will not keep either, but you will experience your blue wonder here. But you're going to cut again: The family benefits – and I say it again – have been shortened. Mineral oil tax has been increased. We have the highest tax on work. And now you're cutting the care allowance again. With the poorest of the poor you cut off. And this is actually a shame in a state that calls itself welfare state: that he abandons the people who need to be cared for and does it in these cuts! This is the social sin of the SPÖ! [[BZÖ and members of the FPÖ were in favour of it.]] You will have to answer to your voters. But you really don't care. Then: Tax reform – misachievement! They talk about getting an interview with a flat tax from time to time – it won't be done! Or: Fees stop – misachievement! We have the highest increases in fees in the history of the Republic at all in these times. We looked at this once: In the last seven years alone, the energy costs of an average household – heating, electricity, petrol for the car – have increased net over the last five years. At €5,000! And I'm not talking about the garbage, wastewater and sewerage charges in the municipalities, especially in Vienna, or about the municipal building rents that are being cut down, or the public transport, where you proclaim, you lower the tariffs there, but in truth they are increased. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You just don't keep your promises. This burden addicts roll over people, and at the same time they are directed: [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] We're sending the billions to Greece! Mrs Minister, this is a wrong policy! People don't understand this: you explain to them today a new deficit, new debts, and at the same time you're sinking billions in Greece. This is your case, which will happen at the next National Council election, where you will experience your miracle.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5683	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5704	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, I understand that the opposition to the budget criticizes things. There are, of course, points that can be addressed and criticized, but let us stick to the truth! True is: More money will be taken into your hands for the care, and not shortened, Mr Westenthaler! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true!]] To sum up, of course, more money for care is taken in hand. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true! 16 million less!]] Ladies and gentlemen, creating a budget in economically difficult times is an extremely responsible task. Of course, it is about creating the budget in such a way that it remains within the framework of debt development on the one hand, but on the other hand it is designed to maintain scope for action in order to make policy making even in economically difficult times. And I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance has made a fundamental commitment to ensuring that we continue to invest in the future of youth, that we continue to invest in education. We could and would all like to do this to a higher degree, and it has already been announced that this will take place in the next budgets to a higher degree. There is already more investment, more investment in the development of childcare facilities, in improving the opening hours of the same. In the school sector, too, much progress is made. The “New Secondary School” is being expanded. There are more smaller classes. All day care is extended. And the upper level is also being reformed. We would like to see a similar positive dynamic in higher education, in higher education. We will need to work in the next few years to strengthen offensive measures. Over the last decades, the encouraging development has occurred that the number of students has grown significantly. But the expansion of the structures has not kept pace with this increase in the number of students. We do not have too many students, but we have bad study conditions in this country. Here we have a task that we must tackle in the next few years. In your speech, Mrs Finanzminister spoke about it – and I naturally support you – that there should be no additional burden on families. I do not understand, however, why the ÖVP will then become so engrossed in the idea of burdening medium-sized families with an additional education tax, because study fees of € 1,000 a year – if you have two children – are the €2,000 a year, where the cost of living that you have to pay for studying children is a very high burden on the family budget. They already feel very strong for parents of children who want to make a better education. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is an obstacle where you have to think more often than three times, whether you can really send your children to universities, to colleges where you wonder if you can really finance it. We reject this additional burden on families, and therefore we continue to vote against tuition fees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, of course, we need more resources to invest more in education, also in higher education, and there are other levers where one could start in the sense of what the Minister for Finance meant: efficient, fair and fair. For example, efficient, fair and fair action would be necessary at universities where the situation is as follows: We have a lot of students in Austria from other countries who do not receive a study place in their home countries and come to our universities, and we need to finance it. [[Abg. Street: And take away our Austrian students!]] The expert report of the Minister of Science recommends – and I think this is a very important recommendation – that negotiations should finally begin with these countries of origin in order to achieve compensatory payments. The experts from the Minister of Science say you could get €280 million. That would be much more than about tuition fees – and that would be fair, efficient and fair! I also do not give up the hope that we will win the ÖVP for our way to get the money where people wouldn't feel it, through a military tax. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] We have a very unfair distribution situation in Austria: One percent of the population has a third of the wealth and pays very, very low taxes on it. Putting on here would be fair and fair!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5800	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5825	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It was remarkable what we have heard today, but especially interesting is an article in today’s issue of the “standard” entitled“ Failure of the Opposition. ” [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Petzner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you should read this! The final sentence is written by the editor Rauscher, who is certainly not suspected of having a special closeness to the Minister of the State – I quote: “Whatever the budget speech of Maria Fekter was, it was at least a failure of the opposition.” – I would like to congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] It was already remarkable how disunity one was here today in the assessment: clearly critical words from Mrs Glawischnig's side towards Strache. She is right, because if all the proposals of the Freedom Party were combined by 2015, the budget would increase by 9.5 billion, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The colleague Bucher repeated his words again today that it had been a fairy tale hour here yesterday. Its prophecy quality is boundless! I therefore made his contributions from April of this year to the first reading of the Federal Finance Act, of 1st reading. On 22 December 2010 the first reading of the 2011 budget and of the 22nd reading. On April 1, 2009, the first reading of the government template concerning the Federal Finance Act was selected. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bucher should read what he said in these speeches. Then I can congratulate him on his fairy tale hour. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Can you read this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say quite openly: This budget has the right balance between saving and investing and sets the right priorities for research and education. Ladies and gentlemen! The accusation that 80 percent of interest rates went abroad is particularly remarkable. I say: Internationally, the Austrian state, the Austrian financial policy, Austrian economic policy, is not in vain the Austrian state has the triple-A. Of course, everything is to be done to obtain this remarkable classification as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, whoever moves on international markets, whether in the economy or in sports, and whoever has to compete in comparison or competition, must be at least one third of the competitor, in the benchmark, so to speak, whether in professional competitions, student Olympics or elsewhere. At this point you could ask yourself: What is Austria's competition like compared to other European countries? – We are also in the benchmark. Example: youth unemployment – the least! Or: Employment policy, social policy, indebtedness rate – that is where Austria stands every comparison! It can therefore be noted that the government has taken the right measures in these difficult times. This has proved to be the success. Also at yesterday's billing: much better than budgeted and much better, even better than prophesied by the opposition. That's a compliment! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Also a compliment to the Federal Minister Fekter. [[Abg. Grosz: Where is the Federal Minister?]] It has set the right priorities for budgetary policy: consolidation of the public budget, promotion of economic growth and employment, continuation of structural reforms. [[Call BZÖ: Where is she?]] Mrs Fekter can also rely on an excellent State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. - Calm down! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Solid state finances are the indispensable basis for sustainable economic development. [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the opposition screams quite loud, has little substance, so it has to be heard with the volume. Substantially, she has nothing to offer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria counts – and that is undisputed! – to those five EU countries that have best coped with the economic crisis worldwide and which have achieved the challenge of the financial and debt crisis relatively well because of the timely adoption of decisive measures. And keeping the triple-A is not a self-evident. It represents the crucial question of refinancing costs. It has already been pointed out today: Returning debt brings scope for action – that is also undisputed! – but there can be no full brake. Finding the right balance between investing and saving is the crucial question, because keeping employment as high as possible is crucial for the budget, for the successes, for the opportunities, for the scope of the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have today the first reading of the budget, almost the general debate. In the Committee on Budgets, we will then go into detail where we will have to deal intensively with the substance. I'll invite you to that. I should like to thank the officials, at the head of Mr Steger, for the excellent written paper. We will therefore have to deal intensively with this in the Committee on Budgets. I'm inviting a too constructive conversation.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5958	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e5980	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Unfortunately, Mrs. Finanzminister has fled, I think. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] – Yes, Mr Auer, you are right, there are also positive things in Austria. There are wise people in Austria, there is a functioning economy and successful businesses – and this despite this federal government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We talked about the change of the Austrian German anthem tonight or discussed it hot. I thought of this as follows: I think we should be concerned that Austria will not become “low”. We sat down yesterday and also analyzed: What did the Federal Minister Fekter do here for the best? – Conclusions: No big throw! The budget speech was a embarrassing self-sessation of usual rewarding self- praise. In the newspapers you can read the same thing today. The budget itself is the continuation of the malaise of this federal government: Non-conception of red and black, downtime, incompetence with current budget policy, inadequacy and courage, for that, the use of red and black lobbys, no risk management, non-respect of the risks of the debt crisis, economic downturn, banking problems, totally false assessment of public debt of red and black, because debt is a burden and not a statistical category. Where, Mrs Fekter, is your excellent economic competence, which you are constantly talking about in this budget? It must be clear – and every household and every company knows it – that you can't spend more time than is taken. This inevitably leads to the ruin or to the state bankruptcy. By 2015, public schools reach €250 billion – without outsourced debt. We pay interest of €10 billion for that. From a zero deficit, ladies and gentlemen, nothing to be noticed far and wide, because we will lose another eight billion annually by 2015. These 250 billion € correspond approximately to the equivalent, ladies and gentlemen at home, of a million family houses. You have to imagine that! Ladies and gentlemen, is there really no more business professionals in this House near Black and Red? Where are the people who are yelling and demanding to finally take another budget path? It's been fire on the roof for a long time. This is where you finally have to think about it. The credit reduction is threatened because there are € 130 billion in liabilities and also a bank weakness in Eastern Europe, which is certainly not to be neglected. One percent more interest would bring two billion more in the long term. The population is rightly wondering: Is this federal government still capable of action at all? The smallest common denominator are the Loipersdorfer decisions, the federal financial framework, and that is when it comes to building the euro protection shield in billions – against the will of the population, at the expense of taxpayers! The future, especially the future of subsequent generations, seems to you totally no matter what, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, for otherwise you would present a reorganisation concept which, over several years, brought the state finances back in order. In Europe, there is a constant debt crisis, a serious debt reduction. However, SPÖ and ÖVP continue the debt path and do not take care of it in any way. We know from the IHS, from Wifo, from the Court of Auditors that up to €10 billion of savings per year would be to be raised: in the field of administration, in the field of hospitals, in the school administration, in pensions, in promotions and so on, and so on. As I said, a lot of fields of activity. We would again have the margin for the finances we need to be able to move. And it would be necessary to introduce a debt brake, as Switzerland has introduced it, and to take an effective cost account for the entire federal territory. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] SPÖ and ÖVP are pressing ahead with this renovation work. This is grossly negligent and irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen. We liberals are ready to take over this work, because we do not want our home country to go down in debt. [[Abg. Wöginger: We've seen that anyway!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6041	Mr Bucher spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6066	Mr President. This is the first reading of the budget, and it would be appropriate if the Minister of State would attend our discussions. Finally, it is about the first reactions of the opposition. It's also about questions we have about them. It will hopefully then use the opportunity to answer these questions. I therefore propose that the Federal Minister for Finance is now present in these deliberations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6096	Mr Klubobmann Deputy Amon, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6120	Thank you very much, Mr President. – Yesterday, the Federal Minister for Finance has been in a very impressive and very comprehensive... – I understand that you are having fun there. [[Lively cheerfulness at FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Rules of Procedure! Mr President, he should speak on the Rules of Procedure.]] That's why you're amused because you were equally impressed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a debate!]] This was really a considerable and very comprehensive budget speech, even in the length that the Federal Minister has held here. She really did, in detail, comment on all the positions of the budget – I have already come to a request – and she has given a very comprehensive opinion on all the positions of the budget. [[Abg. Kickl: That's a speech! That's what you need to do outside the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Yes, you want to hide time!]] [[Abg. Strache: That means that criticism is undesirable, you don't want to hear it at all!]] It is, I think, quite normal and also usual, ladies and gentlemen, that the State Secretary responsible for the debate on this budget today represents the Federal Minister for Finance. This is a completely normal procedure and, by the way, always takes place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr President. We should first discuss in the Presidency whether this is actually in order, that whenever a member of the government is officially represented, there will be such quotations by his own State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mr President, I should like to make a point of order. That's a joke! That is not a statement on the Rules of Procedure.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] I really think that is a problem, and I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to discuss it in the next presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6283	Under reference to § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure have been duly tabled. I opened the debate with the speech given to the Klubobmann deputy, Mr Amon. I can limit speaking times to 5 minutes. I therefore ask whether further statements of speech have been requested in the debate. - That's not the case. Mr Klubobmann, do you maintain your request in view of the presence of the Federal Minister? - That's not the case. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen came to speak. - Please. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: You themselves detest Parliament, Mr President! You think Parliament belongs to the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You preferred to throw out the opposition! You want to ban the opposition's mouth!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Excuse me, Professor! . Last time I was allowed to tell Mr Pilz: I attach great importance to the fact that I am trying to ensure an objective Presidency, and I would like to draw your submission back to the strictest and give you a call for order! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, we have seen that anyway!]] [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP as well as congratulation with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call FPÖ and BZÖ:Who? Who? Who?]] I believed that because you shout loudest, Mr Westenthaler, that you are predestined for it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you, Mr President. That's an order again!]] Mr Van der Bellen is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6405	Thank you, Mr President. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you, Mr President, for this presidency! That's a scandal! The ÖVP wants to throw the opposition out of Parliament!]] – Can we go back to the agenda? Mr Amon, the speech by Minister for Finance Fekter was undoubtedly very long yesterday, but a point seemed strangely underexposed to me. Budgetary policy without taking account of the European situation was, of course, never possible in the last 50 years, but even today, as we all know, as a member of the European Union. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - Wait! Wait! – Ms Fekter has repeatedly referred to the European situation, but purely descriptively describing what might happen there. It has essentially said that the EU is on the stormy seas, but our Austrian ship is well on course. Yeah, that's a nice metaphor. But: What are the Austrian positions on the points that are now coming? I mean, Thursday is Thursday, on Sunday is the European Council! Previously, an Ecofin Council or the Eurozone Ecofin Council is probably taking place. The General Council, where the Foreign Minister should also be present, will probably also meet. There's no death word about all of this! What is the Austrian position to change the EFSF conditions, the European Financial Stability Facility? – Is there even a position? [[Abg. Strache: There is no one at all!]] [[Abg. Strache: Is there even a position?]] Very right! But that does not only concern the Minister of Finance! Today, an hour ago, we heard the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor. They also talked something about it, a little bit about the budget and a little bit more general. What they did not comment on is the European Council on next Sunday, on key European policy issues, which, of course, can also have an impact on the Austrian budget. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. That's where I have to praise!]] That's not just the EFSF. This is a whole sequence of decisions, where the question is, in which order what should happen: Bank recapitalisation, billions of euros are talking here, figures from 70 to 270 billion across Europe are called, in Austria a handful. – No impact on the budget or how? What about the Greek crisis, where it finally turned out that Greece is insolvent? – No impact on the budget? Not a word about all these things. So I find that remarkable. This is a very peculiar provinciality, which comes into being here, both as regards yesterday's budget speech and as regards the opinion of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And if we're already with the vice chancellor: The Deputy Chancellor of the Republic is known at the same time as Foreign Minister. The foreign ministry's budget has always been tiny in comparison – not 500 million. Now it's 423, if I'm right in my head. A decline compared to this year. A significant decline in Austria's contribution to development cooperation and development policy. At the Austrian Development Agency, which operates centrally in this context, minus €7 million. Is this even worth half a sentence to the Foreign Minister? - Yes, nothing! Austria's position in a globalized world, Austria in a situation where, in fact, these metaphors from the village to which the world grows together are a realistic description – and we are concerned about foreign policy, about the foreign ministry no longer?- Oh, my God! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was once a small but very fine resort, Wolfgang Schüssel once said, I remember that well. Yes, but in the future this will be a very small, still fine resort – too small, also for Austria. But briefly to the actual drama, and you have, I think, described correctly, Mrs Finanzminister: in diagnosis, but not in therapy. If you look at how much the expenditure for the federal grant on pension insurance and civil servants' pensions is rising, together you will find almost € 1 billion more than now, and this compares with the expenditure for the increase in science and research in the UG 31, saying and writing plus 26 million for the entire tertiary sector, then you will see the actual drama of development. It can't go on like this! [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] We need to spend more on training our young people, our young adults. This development, which separates so that expenditure on pensions increases by more than nominal growth next year, but does not even cover expenditure on science and research, that is to say, the rate of inflation is going down in real terms, that is unheard of. That's really unheard of! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Unfortunately, my 5 minutes are already over, on this subject I would like to spread for another hour. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6532	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6553	Mr President. High house! We expect you to be in front of this House as the head of the budget debate and not to watch if the Minister of Finance is not in the Chamber for 30 minutes, in an essential debate about her budget. But I am no longer surprised at the last few hours, days and weeks of your presidency and the way in which the ÖVP is taking place. My unopened post is read and prefaced by members of the ÖVP. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Her Minister of Justice is following me with complaints because I have discovered criminal offences at the ÖBB scandal and sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Yesterday, in the Neugebauer manner, a certain woman here is born Hakl and says that members of the opposition belong psychiatrically, they are ill. That is all that we know from the 1920s of the last century. I note, however, that there is a great deal of progress towards this democratic political situation, and that, out of your own weakness, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you are not even able to put together a proper budget. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am personally appalled by the President's participation in this, but he has to agree with his conscience and with the honourable Member himself. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Minister of Finance in the “Lesament” – not Parliament – did not speak at all, but only of reading – read the following: “I, as your Minister of Finance, have a goal: I want to create stability so that our money retains its value." That is what she says in the case of a 3-percent inflation and in a situation where, due to the economic crisis, we are likely to look forward to galloping inflation. The Minister of Finance continues to say, page 13: ‘The starting point is not simple: Debts have also increased at risk in Austria.” This is said by the Minister of Finance of a party that has been the Minister of Finance for 11 years and has been holding the reins for 300 years in the Austrian Federal Government. Great! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Delaratingly, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. And then today, in contrast, we hear it for the spectators who have not yet seen it at 9.37 a.m., Mr. Klubobmann's head: The debts have to go down! And at 9.38: High taxes are the death of the economy and growth. Then, according to Hofer and Gerald Groß, you take the selected speech from the ORF, where the minister says: Austria is a high tax country and the taxes are extorting us. – This is said by the party’s Minister of Finance, who introduced these taxes in Austria. The re-indebtedness of this budget is 3.2 percent or €9 billion. For those who can't imagine anything below: 9 billion € are if you would stack 1 € coins, the way to the moon. That's half of 780,000 kilometers. If the Minister of Finance were at the head of this tower to Babel, she would arrive at the moon. The only problem is that 780 000 kilometres also mean the return route, then we only have the Minister of Finance again in this Sit in the house, with their debts. Only so that we can remember the debt situation once. The so-called anti-cult party of the Austrian People's Party causes 9 billion additional debts this year, and the honourable Member boldly goes out and says: We can't do anything, make suggestions on how we can save these €9 billion! I am now presenting at least some aspects of an alternative budget. Josef Bucherhat, with economic experts over two years, has developed an alternative budget, a savings budget for this Republic: State and administrative reform: Date of expiry of laws, uniform funding agencies, end of baggage promotions, harmonisation of civil servants' pensions, reduction of 30 000 public servants by natural procedure. That's €1,250 billion. Health reform: Summary of social security funds, prevention as a guiding principle, financing from a single source, abolition of the misuse of the e-card system, stop the drug-grow. 2 billion €. Reform of education and schooling – Mrs Minister, here we agree with you –: Elimination of double-tracks in school administration, uniform service and remuneration law et cetera. €200 million. And that goes on to the savings package for the policy, where we will make 150 million €, to the abolition of the Federal Council, to the abolition of your ad-indication, to the representation costs, to the state grants for the ÖBB. And we come to 7,125 billion €, which we save. Then, Mr President, Mr Kopf, we would have a zero deficit. Not the zero deficit you have shifted to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, but then we would have it now. What are you doing? They continue to burden people, you speculate on inflation in your budget and thus increased revenue, namely from the population, instead of finally saving you in your own field. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do you know what crime is? You're guilty, Mrs. Minister? § 168a Criminal Code: Pyramid play with your Greek help, down to unfaithfulness and negligent Krida. This budget is the infidelity and the living Krida at the taxes of our Austrians, and we also reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6672	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6694	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and on the galeries! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In Europe, we are currently being intensively discussed, as we can, on the one hand, stabilise Greece, but on the other hand, other countries together, so that our currency remains secure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: reading second part!]] However, stability in Europe requires all states to do their homework. We have looked at stable finances for a secure future with this budget, and I have presented a stable budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Now the speech of yesterday is read again!]] When we held the budget negotiations with the various regions in August, we met a deficit of 2.9, which would have been in line with Maastricht. We have concluded these negotiations, and it was a gratifying prospect at the time that we were going down much faster than planned with the deficit, below 3 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And then we drove to Loipersdorf!]] Unfortunately, the new economic forecast came in September, which was very dramaticly revised downwards. The originally projected 2-percent growth for next year was corrected by the Economic Research Institute to just over 0.85. This led us to have to recalculate all the figures and redefine the budget, which is why we have achieved a deficit of 3.2 percent. Still Maastricht-near, but not less than 3%. This is unfortunate, and I hope that the economy will be better than the forecasts, and then we can be better than we fixed here with the expenditure limits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was important for us that the budget is carefully planned, that we plan very carefully and that we can always keep the figures we plan – we have always done them so far. We were much better in 2010 than the planned data, we are better in 2011 than the planned data, and, ladies and gentlemen, I assume that we will also be better in 2012. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because you have more tax revenue!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] We absolutely want stability in this country, and this stability is based on a number of factors, on the new budgetary law which lays down the upper limits of expenditure – the centres must stick to it, the High House has already decided on these ceilings – and on the Stability Pact with the countries and communities. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many more columns do we have?]] For the first time, the countries and municipalities also have to keep budgetary discipline, they must not expand their deficits, but they must, quite the contrary, also gradually reduce them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] The communities balance budgets, and we have a sanctions mechanism that will also be respected. [[Abg. Kickl: What's next weekend?]] In addition to this new budgetary law with the Stability Pact, there is the consolidation path with the reforms. I know the savings package was painful. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What are you doing on Sunday?]] It has come across criticism, but, ladies and gentlemen, there is no way of saving public expenditure. [[Abg. Kickl: What about the five points next weekend?]] And these spending limits help us to keep the budget stable, despite the weakening of the economy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many pillars do you have? Two?]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will put forward offensive measures where future expenditure is concerned. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] And these future expenditures concern our children, science, research, innovation. [[Abg. Grosz: Speaking time is not valid either?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Talk time!]] We will also...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6897	The final sentence, please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6912	We will also spend a lot of money on active labour market policies, because jobs will ensure stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6945	The next item is the speech by Mr Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e6966	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the Hochegger? What about the high-ranking now?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite difficult global economic conditions and despite difficult European economic conditions, Austria will also stand well in the coming year 2012. [[Abg. Petzner: Can you say something to the dignitary?]] We have stable and healthy finances, we have a sustainable consolidation course and we are working on successive, gradual debt reduction. I would like to remind you at this point: The reason for the debt was the crisis and the measures taken by this government, which had to be counter-taxed so that Austria could get through the financial crisis well. And, of course, part of this crisis fight is to consolidate the state finances gradually. And in order to consolidate state finances, it takes growth and needs a policy that promotes growth, promotes employment, and a system that guarantees social cohesion. With this 2012 budget, a 3.2 per cent deficit is raised, which is a very, very good value, considering what high value we are coming down from, and gives us the opportunity to get back within the Maastricht limit of 3 per cent within a short time, and this, although the economic forecast has greatly weakened in the last half year. When we started planning for 2012, 2 percent of the growth was forecast and the last WIFO forecast is now only 0.8 percent economic growth. The primary balance, which has naturally turned into negatives with the crisis response measures, has also been phased down again, and we are already showing – we are minus 0.5 for 2012 – that there is again a tendency for a positive primary balance in the future, which is an essential prerequisite for the successful fight against debt. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria remains strong in international comparison. This shows unemployment statistics: Austria is at the top of Europe with the best and healthiest labour market, with the lowest unemployment. This is an important factor because it guarantees social stability and social peace, allows fair income for workers, but also means tax revenue for the Republic. That is why it is important not to look away in the future, but to continue to set positive priorities, which also means forcing active labour market policies. The budget, as it is here today, is evidenced by a calm hand in times of crisis, by active action to solve the problems in the economy, by the application of economic mind and by the introduction of a social conscience into this numbering work. This budget also sets the right priorities in the areas of education, research, employment and growth. We can do this because of our modern budgetary law, which many countries in Europe are greatly envied by, as budgetary law with spending limits also provides for a consolidation pressure that the budget is again developing towards Maastricht criteria, but at the same time also gives the local government ministers the opportunity to act with offensive measures in those areas where this is economically necessary and correct. [[Abg. Kickl: Five points on the weekend!]] Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Federal Government for their participation in the budget negotiations, but also for the staff of our home, the Ministry of Finance, especially the budget section of the head of the section Dr. Steger, who has demonstrated with both the new budget law and the work on this budget that Austria is very well hit by the crisis and can re-enter a consolidation path that guarantees solid state finances in times of difficulty.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7062	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7083	Mr President. Ladies Federal Ministers! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and in front of the screens! “The comparison makes you sure!” was over many years an advertisement of a large electric group, and I recommend everyone to take a look over the border and draw a comparison. If you are a senior or senior, a pensioner and a pensioner, ask how pension development is in other countries. I'm not talking about the U.S. where an 80-year-old in the supermarket fills the paper bag with trembling hands because he has to work because he no longer has a pension. [[Abg. Street:... ÖGB, for example!]] I am talking about countries in Europe where cuts are made by 10.20 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Speak of the pension privileges...!]] We have secured pensions in all these years since the crisis, and it was good that we did that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are a student or a student – we have talked a lot about educational expenditure today – then look across the border! [[Abg. New builder: It's enough of your own country!]] Professor Van der Bellen is not in the hall, but let's go straight to the topic: We are in OECD statistics – the Federal Minister yesterday and the Federal Chancellor today pointed out – in OECD comparison with per capita education expenditure, now fourth place. Mrs. Federal Minister, you talked about five more, that's what happened before. We are at ‘Education at a Glance’ in the fourth place among all OECD countries in terms of purchasing power expenditure per capita. [[Abg. Kickl: And in what place are we at the output?]] [[Abg. Strache: What is the output?]] We are in the per capita expenditure per student, which is also an important factor, now already in 11th place, in the first quarter, as far as investment per student is concerned in tertiary education. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] This means that we have set the accents correctly over many years and consistently continue on the path. And the comparison makes us sure, ladies and gentlemen! If you are a worker or a worker: Every year you get a wage increase in our country so that you have a secure purchasing power next year. It's useful to all of us. [[Abg. Kickl: Real wage losses for ten years!]] It's useful to all of us. Next year, we will have a purchasing power increase – WIFO and IHS confirm that. This will distinguish us from the majority of all European countries. The comparison makes you sure: This country is better governed than the other countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: The real wage loss in recent years...!]] Be glad that these gentlemen, the clubmen, have nothing to say in front of me, Bookers and Streets! Mr. Auer has actually listed the fairy tale hours of the last three years, and then Mr. Grosz comes with the Pixi book, with the fairy tale book he holds in the trembling hand, and tells us secrets such as that he might save €2 billion by saving staff. – The Federal Government has been doing this for years. Only every second post will be re-occupied. It's been a long time. [[Abg. Strache: You can see it at the government bank, how it is saved: the largest government bank in the Second Republic!]] If you want to stop working in public service, Mr. Bucher, that means – and you have to tell the people in front of the TV screen – that if you are parents, there is no teacher in the class of your son/your daughter. [[Abg. Street: 35 children per class sit in the Vienna school classes! That's absurd!]] If you go around the corner in the evening, you won't see any cops. These are the proposals you have! - The comparison makes you sure. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Street: Take a look at the Vienna classes with 35 children per class!]] I warn you: Think about who to check your order list for the next National Council elections! [[Abg. You're talking like that together, that's crazy!]] As Mrs Glawischnig is here, I would like to address a criticism of the content of education and science expenditure, namely the conversion of the January reference. You are right that this unique effect is contained in the 2012 increase. When I deduct this, we have 268 million € less in education, it is 7.7 billion €, but even then this is still a significant increase over the previous year's budget, and in the field of science it is only 39,632 million €. That is, we have total, even if I take this out, €3,808 billion for Chapter 31. This means that if I look at the last three years alone in the field of science, there has been an increase of €3.4 billion, € 3.395 billion, to € 3.8 billion, and that in a difficult time. Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, thank you, Mr State Secretary, you have had a difficult task and have solved it well!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7305	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7326	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government, especially Mrs Finanzminister! I can connect seamlessly to Mr Matznetter [[Abg. Strache: There is no delete sheet in between!]] In fact, the task of submitting the 2012 budget was well solved. It's a stable budget, it's a budget that's going to be there, and it's a budget that doesn't stifle anything that's available on economic plants. Ladies and gentlemen! It has succeeded in submitting a budget that meets the economic situation. These are difficult economic times, and some are pretending to be alone in the world. Some people, like Mr Grosz, pretend that everything has always been so wonderful in the past. Mr Grosz criticises it if the Minister of Finance is fighting for our euro, our money remains stable. I really don't understand. Please see the inflation trend since 1960! [[The speaker shows a graphic.]] Consider the massive impact of inflation we had before joining the European Union! Indeed, inflation has only been stable, low since accession to the European Union. This ensures the value of money, and that is the best thing for our economy, which we can offer to our people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's about keeping our money stable. It is therefore also important to propose a budget that meets this challenge. This means, of course, that we must ensure that we do not suffer from the mistake that has happened to other countries, that we become a risk country through excessive debt targets of speculators, that we become a risk country through permanent spending more than we take. The opposite is the case. We have a rating from Triple A, and we have no reason to worry that Austria will not be preserved. Stable finances are the best the population can happen, ladies and gentlemen! It is also about the fact that we do not leave a mountain of debt that they cannot cope with in future generations. [[Abg. Petzner: You do exactly that! You're leaving a debt mountain!]] This is, of course, not just a budget of the Minister of Finance, but a budget of the entire Federal Government. It is a budget that is more ambitious in parts, in other parts it may not be quite that ambitious. Of course, we would like those areas that challenge us in a special way, such as demographic development, which is a special challenge for the pension and health system, to be a little more ambitious. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like that for the future. Also, what the social partners have proposed is a good basis for discussing these issues, but I would sometimes wish that their proposals are a little more ambitious than they actually are. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is the objective of a stability-oriented budget policy? – Ladies and gentlemen, look at the pictures that go around the world! The objective of a stability-oriented budget policy is, of course, social peace. A key objective of a stability-oriented budget policy is that the standard of living can be maintained or expanded. This must be the objective of a stability-oriented budget policy. And the goal of a stability-oriented budget policy must ultimately also be that the individual remains more free to choose, more freedom of choice for his own decisions, for his own investments. This is the objective of a stability-oriented budget policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's not the time for experiments. And that is why, I think, it is good that there are also a few points in this budget that represent quite clear future investments. Think of the offensive programmes we have planned for universities and the universities in this budget! Think about the 100 million € of additional research funding! Think of the 52 million €, which are awarded alone for the coming year to all Austrian primary schools in the direction To further develop new secondary school! And remember that we take additional €80 million to further expand qualified afternoon care! This is a forward-looking budget policy! – In Austria is left and this Minister of Finance is left, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7402	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7423	Mr President. [[Abg. New builder: Tell him how it really is!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: (in the direction of Abg. He won't know that!]] – You will be deceived! – Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Values Advisors! One thing is interesting: It doesn't matter who comes out of ÖVP or SPÖ, everyone talks about debt reduction and that it's not responsible to leave our children a debt mountain. Since our children already have this debt mountain, which they can no longer reduce, it would be reasonable to talk at least once about a single budget, but you are not even able to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is an affront to the population! – For how stupid it is You're actually the Austrian population? You're constantly talking about debt reduction, the ban on making new debts, but since you've been in the government, you've been making 25 billion euros of debt, and in the budget of next year it's over 9 billion €. I don't know how you measure the population, but you don't believe that for a long time now! And then you always hear that we are the best in Europe. – I'll tell you once again: You don't know the map. Europe also includes Switzerland and Norway. Don't always talk about the best in Europe! If you want, talk about the best in the EU! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Besides, you're saying we're better than planned. You know, if you put the latte so high that a guinea pig can jump over it, it's possible to get over it without a doubt. It depends on the objective that you give yourself – even with this federal government – whether you reach a goal or not. And your goals are not ambitious. Now I'm coming to your unemployment rates. They always say we are the best in Europe, we have the lowest unemployment rates. Do you know that we also have most early pensioners? Do you know that according to Eurostat, which you always quote, all who are outsourced are not present and that, for example, we have over 70 000 people in training? They say we have the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. We have an official – official! – Youth unemployment of about 8 percent in Austria. [[Abg. Street: Official! Only: Those who have never worked are not even inside the statistics! That's your shame!]] Officially, not to Eurostat. Now one can say that this is not so bad because the neighbouring countries are much worse off. However, what you are not saying is that there are so-called teaching workshops according to the dog gate model, where between 45 000 and 50 000 Austrian youths are employed, where an employment programme is offered, which is not enough at all to return to the work process, and these young people have not taken into account in the unemployment statistics at all. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser:... excellent apprentices!]] In Austria, more than 70 000 young people are unemployed, and this is an unemployment rate of 17 percent. I would be ashamed to be a government – and there you are still talking about youth rights and futures! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's crazy what you're doing here. That's not what you're saying. And then the Industrial Union also comes and says: We have a shortage of skilled workers – which is known all over the world in the meantime – we are getting the experts from neighboring abroad! – Haven Are you looking at the situations in our neighbouring countries? They have exactly the same problem! They have a shortage of skilled workers like us, if not even more than we do. You see, because of the red and white red card you have introduced for key workers, how many come to us from abroad. Until now, these are not even 300 who have taken advantage of this. And if you still subtract all hockey players and athletes, it's not even half what comes to Austria for key workers. You invest too little in youth, you invest too little in education, and that starts in kindergarten. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Finanzminister, you addressed the education billion yesterday, but you addressed her in Schilling! This is a sign of poverty for this government if it is to prevent or remedy the shortage of skilled workers in the future. In addition, the low birth rate is now up. I don't know how you imagine that we can still be competitive in the world market if we don't train young people again and lead them to be skilled workers in order to solve the shortage of skilled workers. You did a reading here yesterday. Do you think the 183 Members can't read? We could have read that ourselves. We would have expected you to carry out here how you face certain challenges in the immediate future. Professor Van der Bellen mentioned it. You're going to Brussels this weekend. There is a 5-point emergency programme to save the euro. You have not made any of these 5 points even close to your point of view, as you think you should act there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7548	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7569	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Now I would like to bring you something to the reading and I'm excited if it seems familiar to you: “The public budget is figures of policy.” – We all know it, this sentence; You tried him yesterday, you should know him too. But now it goes on: “Whoever is taxed to what extent and for what public funds are spent is ultimately determined how socially just how redistributive and environmentally sustainable budget policies are.” – I fear you do not know this sentence. Then continue: “Two main intentions have our budget: It is intended to ensure greater distribution justice and thus prevent the gap between the poor and the rich, and it is intended to enable high-quality public goods and services to be manageable and comprehensive.” – I am afraid you do not yet know this phrase. In conclusion: “We want a future budget that is socially fair, redistributive and environmentally sustainable. Our proposals show that this is possible. In order to implement such a budget, a public, transparent and democratic reform process is needed, involving civil society organisations and including the general government budget.’ – Citations. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Is that from Androsch?]] What I read to you is the 2012 civil society budget presented on Monday, which was presented for the second time in this form under the title “Rethinking, rethinking, redistributing”. You all got an invitation to this presentation. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Was the Androsch there?]] This invitation was met by the Greens and the colleague Lueger from the SPÖ. [[Call the FPÖ: Just the left!]] Against this background, it was important to me to bring this to your attention. And if you just want to wipe this out of the table, I have to tell you again who the authors and the participating persons and institutions are in this budget: These are the Catholic workers' movement, various trade unions, GdG, GPA, vida, SOS Mitmensch, attac, poverty conference, GLOBAL 2000, Greenpeace, ÖH and many more. [[Abg. Head: So all the left organizations of the country!]] This is not anyone, it is civil society in Austria, and these civil society organisations have come together across all the issues to present an alternative budget here, and I can agree with one thing. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! By the way, there can be no mention of ‘getting’, because you cannot pour rigid liquids, and this budget that you have poured here is a budget of the standstill and of the inconsistency of reform. There is no mention of social justice, of investment in the future, of investment in education, in science, in research, as my previous speakers have already said. For example, in your budget, which you have presented to us in writing, you say that children and young people and their future are essential to you. However, this is not at all reflected in the figures and in the projects connected with them. For example, we stay with the family budget and there at the first educational institutions. [[Abg. Steibl: 6.3 billion are a palpable sum! You know that too!]] Childcare facilities: We decided yesterday € 15 million a year, for this year € 10 million. Yes, but we have also predicted that this is far too little and that with this money not education for all children in the whole Austria is guaranteed from zero to six years, but this money is a maximum drop on the hot stone. [[Abg. Marek: 70 million each year for the National Kindergarten!]] Against this background, it cannot at all be said that you are investing in education, in the future of our children, and it cannot be said that this budget is a socially just budget. For social justice begins with education, begins with education for all children, and education begins in kindergarten. And as long as this is not guaranteed in a budget, it is not a budget that invests in the future of our children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7697	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7719	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! When I listened to you yesterday, I always had a famous film and a famous film scene in front of my spiritual eye, namely the most successful film of all time: “Titanic”. There's Kate Winslet at the front of the bug with her lover. – You have happened to me like the Kate Winslet of financial policy, because you stand at the front and say: Everything's great and beautiful, while the ship's already down the back. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that is also what you have put forward with this budget, ladies and gentlemen. You're heading full gas to the iceberg, and the chapel is still playing at home. If You say here today that this is a stable budget if Mr Amon says that it is a budget that gives the future if he says that it is a budget that allows for more freedom of choice for citizens' own investments, then I oppose the facts and figures. With this budget, we again do not undermine the 3-percent Atlantic debt limit, which is and continues to apply across the EU; and a major trigger was that we have these massive difficulties in the euro area today. You already don't care that this 3-percent limit will no longer be respected, that is not mentioned at all. Public debt increases to 75 percent of the annual economic performance. We spend as much on interest as on education, culture and art. 40 percent of the budget goes up for debt interest and pensions, and the minus is at 9.2 billion € again this year significantly above this 3-percent mastricht deficit limit. You can't explain that this is stable finance. You can't explain that this is a budget that will secure the future. No one's taking it from you outside. That's what the experts tell you. If you look at the newspapers today, the comments of the journalists and the expert opinions, you would have to think about what's going on there! This is a devastating judgment. Thereby planlessness is written in bold headlines: Fekter is without a plan. There are experts who say about you, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you are an analysis giant, but you are an implementation dwarf. There are experts like Mr Doralt, who says that you are making an unsubstantiated announcement policy and everything you are doing ends up as a piper. This is the opinion of the experts who have also analyzed your budget, and that should also give you reason! You really have to start the turnaround in order to leave this debt path in the long term! But you do the opposite: They're giving the Greeks billions of bonds. With 29 billion total, the Austrian taxpayer is liable for Greece's debt. That's what you do. [[Abg. Wöger: How in Carinthia!]] They ensure that we still have higher interest payments, that government debt continues to rise, and that the budget is increasingly out of the row. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: 20 billion for Carinthia!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No polemics from the government bank!]] It is therefore not a stable, not a secure budget, but exactly the opposite. And, Secretary of State Arbitrator: There's no 20 billion for Carinthia! [[Abg. Wöginger: This is the Minister! This is the Minister of Economic Affairs!]] Listen to your own friend and predecessor as the Minister of Finance – you are only the Secretary of State – Mr. Hannes Androsch, who himself said that the 20 billion euros of liability are stupid. There are no 20 billion liabilities! [[Calls:Minister Mitterlehner]] – Please excuse me, Mr Mitterlehner, but that also applies to him. Then we're just holding back Androsch: There are no 20 million € liability for the Federal Republic of Carinthia, but there are no more than 4 to 5 billion €, which could actually be beaten. There's no such 20 billion €. Yes, I've identified you, Minister, and that's enough for me. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Do you know me? Have you already identified me?]] And I have also identified the budget and have to tell you once again that with this budget you do not guarantee the security and stable financial situation of Austria, but do the reverse.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7827	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7848	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am actually very grateful to the Greens for having made a urgent request on education yesterday because this has given the opportunity to explain very detailed and very detailed measures already taken and also the planned measures in the field of education. I think it was impressive to see how successful our Minister of Education, especially in the field of education reforms, is on the road and what has been put on the rails, and we can therefore continue today seamlessly in what we have so successfully discussed yesterday. You know, our clear education guide provides that we don't want to leave a child behind. All the education policies we are setting are premised by the following: We don't want to leave a child behind! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want to pick up all young people and promote them where they have their talents. And please check all the measures we have taken, the 41 laws that we have largely agreed together. All these measures, although not all in favour of a single group, are those that serve precisely this educational objective, and we will continue to do so very consistently. From the 41 laws, the three most important measures from my point of view are, first, the smaller classes, which bring not only more posts of service, but more quality for the individual children, especially in individual care, second, the development of the New Secondary School, second, by providing more resources and new teaching and learning methods, so that we can also take along weaker children, especially from far-reaching shifts, and offer them appropriate opportunities, and third, the redesignation of the upper level which is in preparation. These measures, coupled with the quality assurance measures we put in place, with the education standards – 4. Stage 8 Stage, New Matura – which in addition bring new quality and a new level of performance in education, I believe, are very essential points. In addition to the discussions yesterday, I would like to mention the areas already mentioned in the budget, which serve sustainability. These are several positions – Kai Jan Krainer has already said it: In my opinion, 100 million for thermal rehabilitation, additional funds for research and development et cetera, but particularly important are the funds we spend on pre-school, because pre-school educational investment has the highest economic yield that has ever been measured. That is why we must say that, while all these measures we have put in place are not yet optimal, we are now going to move forward step by step and put these measures into action, which is to be measured in order to be able to implement them accordingly. We are always talking about the 80 million in the coming budget, which we want to spend all day care. In total, it is € 320 million that we make directly available to the countries: for infrastructure measures, for the expansion of day-to-day care, and also for the parents to no longer have the need for support lessons, for follow-up lessons for their children, which they have to contend with so far. These measures of day-to-day care and these offers that we create work, I believe, are sustainable and are a significant improvement of our education system. That's why it's annoying me a little – the Minister of Finance is not in her place right now... [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, standing at the end of the government bank, talks with a staff member.]] It's annoying me... [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: But I can hear you!]] - So you listen. I would like to address you personally, because I was disappointed by you yesterday, above all about how you read your speech, and that, almost as with an ÖVP party, you have cleaned yourself off to government colleagues in a way that I cannot tolerate, especially if you know the achievements of an educational minister like Claudia Schmied. I won't let you go here and say, But as Minister of Finance, I must remind you that the resources entrusted are also handled with care in the classroom. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Finanzminister, if there is a department that actually works sustainablely and well and forward-lookingly, if there is a department that can really show a current account in the last four or five years, then it is the educational resort. And it would be good for you to look at once – I know you have many other tasks – what Claudia Schmied and this Parliament have actually done in the field of education so far! Then maybe you'll come to a different conclusion. I would like to hand over to you a performance report from Claudia Schmied. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7934	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e7955	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr. Federal Minister! Today, the eye is once again sharpened, namely that of the spectator, because one sees who is really responsible and competent here in the house and who uses Parliament as a stage for cheap populism and as a cabaret, namely the opposition, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I am particularly grateful to the Federal Minister for Finance that she is putting the right concepts on the table at the right time, at the right time, with responsibility and competence. Mrs. Federal Minister, thank you very much for this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria has mastered the crisis well, better than other European states. Why? – Through a good economic and location policy in the last ten years, ladies and gentlemen, with a clear result: Today we have a high employment rate in Austria, which we can be proud of, jobs have been secured, purchasing power has been secured, value added in our country has been secured. This crisis cost a lot of money, but it was necessary to give security to people in Austria in times of crisis. It was a broad way to do this and also to invest in Austria at the right time. The consolidation path, the Federal Financial Framework Act, the Inner Austrian Stability Pact and structural reforms will lead the budget back to the right track, ladies and gentlemen. One can be read from the budget package: Sacrifice, stability and the so important guarantee of the future in this country for service providers, for people who do something every day and work in that country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only a healthy budget, as presented by the Federal Minister, in which Austria's credit quality, savings and fiscal consolidation are a priority, protects us from new burdens and new taxes. That is why I also say that we need a new tax system. Yes, Maria Fekter is working on a tax system which is characterised by the aspects of less, simpler, more performance-friendly and ecological. [[Abg. Scheibner: (shown on the 2012 budget) There's nothing in there!]] This is a real system, which is a future system where one does not constantly think about creating new property taxes that burden people, but our foreign exchange is to relieve people at the right time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you are constantly talking about introducing taxes on property, I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, quite honestly, that is a robbery of property. We don't want that, we don't. That is why I am very glad, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have maintained the tireless attacks of all sides, the class struggle which was also carried out on the back of the farmers, and that you have also clearly known the achievements of farmers in this country, also in the budget, where you have said that in the future, too, the mining programme, the environmental programme, the rural area of every euro can be picked up by the co-financing mechanisms that exist in Brussels. [[Abg. Oils: All right!]] Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, it was a good thing because it has never been so clear that it has been clearly said that those farmers who give people safety in the production of food produce environmentally friendly, animal-friendly products that keep the landscape open in Austria will not be burdened with new property taxes, but we will secure the single value system and we will also secure the package. This is important so that farmers can continue to be able to do what consumers want from them in the future. That is why I tell you, we are really serious about things, because in the end we know one thing: We all sit in a boat, no matter which party we belong to, no matter which profession we belong to. We can only solve the big challenges together.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8040	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8062	Mr President. High house! If one has listened to the speakers of the ÖVP in this way, then there is actually only one question: Where are you living? The spectators at home on TV screens believe they've turned on the wrong movie. Faith You really think everything's fine? Faith You really think we're living on an island of the Blessed? This is absolute refusal of reality! The people on the street, the farmers who have heard this now, Mr Grillitsch, who don't get anything for their products, there must be more and more farms locked up, this is completely different. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: You talk like the blind one about the color! I don't know, you know.]] The people's snakes in front of the labour market service, the people in the hospital – what you're doing is head-in-sand policy. I say that consciously, Mr. Klubobmann's head, that is a denial of reality. If the ÖVP spends the motto, yes, we have to save more and lower taxes, I ask you: Where did you save the budget last year? Where did you lower the taxes? Fact is, you've made more debt, you've increased taxes, you've donated the money to Greece, you've increased inflation. If you, Mr Klubobmann, come out and say we're on the right track, then I mean if you're praying to your officials in the ÖVP every day, then that's okay for us. But if you say that for Austria, then this is a dangerous threat and absolutely a battle ground to all Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This budget, Mrs Bundesminister, which you have presented here, is harsh and unfair. It is hard and unfair, for there are winners on the one hand, those are those who do their business in the financial markets, these are the banks, these are the speculators who have done good business with Greece, with Ireland, with Portugal. For them, the lifeguard has also been implemented by you. This budget today means a black day for those who are on the loser side, and on the loser side are the families, there are the single parents, there are those who need care, there are the social weak and there are the students. As you always bring Austria in European comparison. I will bring you the European comparison. 30 percent of the income of Single parent goes directly to the state: a euro for me, a euro for the state. For example, it sounds like a woman with children in Austria has a share of their income. According to Statistics Austria, 43.3 percent must be delivered in the form of taxes, social charges to the Ministry of Finance, i.e. to the State; 40 percent for a couple and two children! In the OECD comparison, ladies and gentlemen, because you always show Austria in European comparison, the quota is 28 percent. A family father, single parent must deliver 40 percent in a European comparison. That's where I ask you: Where do you actually live that you can come and say everything is fine!Unknown term type: "%s".? Look at inflation in Austria! One child jacket: plus 44.5 percent, heating oil: plus 23.8 percent, potatoes: plus 20.8 percent – and that is truly not rich-people food. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is the money that our Austrians have to raise to pay for this false debt policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you come here every year and say, reforms, education, health, then I am against that, these are health costs. [[The speaker shows a graphic.]] Call me a measure, a health reform that has actually taken effect! I will tell you something, these are the ads of Mr Faymann, the Minister of Health, 'The Faymann Government stops the two-class medicine'. [[The speaker refers to newspaper cuts]] I can only tell you to visit a hospital in Vienna or in the federal states, then you will see that we do not have a two-class medicine, but we have a three-class medicine, and that is the truth. Patients are waiting for dates and the like. You will be bringing Austria to the debt limit with the politics you operate, namely, head in the sand and refusal of reality and here beautiful words, and this will mean disadvantages for the Austrians. This is a missing policy that you are presenting with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8137	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8159	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! The green persistence pays off. After all, for the time being, the Education SpÖ spokesperson uses our motto “No Child Leave behind”, we have been preaching for years. After all, it's arrived. Perhaps sometime we will also notice some of the measures. On the other hand, if you call this standstill budget all serious progress here, I have my doubts about it. Eva Glavischnig pointed to some budget tricks early this morning. In the meantime, several have already become manifest. I have looked specifically at the educational budget and may point to a few more typical pocket players' tricks, for example, the fact that 130 million rents that have been paid this year will naturally be due next year and contribute to the increase in the educational budget. If you look at the numbers in detail, you have to say: Their expansion of the New Middle School with the increased use of AHS teachers looks like we have less 240 posts next year. So, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot deal with the Austrians! Everyone notices what's being played here. Here we have a standstill budget and no budget that really points to the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's missing is focus sets. If you don't believe it, listen to what your former social democratic vice-president Hannes Androsch says about it! Listen to what the excellent education expert and former President of the State Schools in Styria Bernd Schilcher says! He said quite clearly to you yesterday: This is a standstill budget. [[Abg. Steibl: After that! We're afraid!]] And let me take up another issue that is particularly important to me. I think Peter Mayer of the ÖVP mentioned it yesterday. They argue that low youth unemployment is a signal of the functioning of the Austrian education system. My colleague Bernhard Themessl has already made clear some tricks here too, namely the concealment of youth unemployment. And I can quote one who, as I think, is also a witness in this context, who cannot have a party-political closeness to us. It is the former apprentice officer of the black and blue government Egon Blum. He sent me a mail on Friday, which gives me a lot of thought to point out the dramatic situation in the apprenticeship sector. Egon Blum says that the official figures already show that we have lost 10,000 teaching places in this country in the last three years due to the measures taken by this government. 10,000 students less! I want to know where the ID card is to be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] Yes, this is the apprentice officer of the former black and blue government. Mr President, you are, of course, hiding some of these unemployed apprentices in your teaching workshops, where they do not have real training. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Bravo!]] You don't get past these facts with loud screams. Look, I'm just doing it now, I'm quoting Egon Blum: There are thousands of young people who, because of their lack of training, cannot be admitted to schools or teaching. Unfortunately, the government's enormous funding will take place in preventive projects – training capacity up to the 15th century. Year of life – invested in repair workshops. – That’s what Egon Blum says, I don’t say. I'm just saying that. [[Abg. Kickl: What is it about?]] The Industrial Association of Styria confirmed it to you last week: 70 percent of apprentices do not meet the minimum requirements. I'd be glad if you took this to heart. Egon Blum turned to us, he wrote: It would be nice if other politicians would also recognize the seriousness of the situation. Unfortunately, your budget is on the opposite side. In the interests of our youth, I say: Have the courage for a basic education reform at last! Go ahead and deal with the problem! The solutions are on the table. You must finally tackle it, and this should also be reflected in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8249	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8270	Mr President. Mr Walser, we have also received this e-mail. I am only pleased that you are now putting out the comments of Mr Blum as positive. I think that when you ordered him, you were still different. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Grillitsch has invited us, together with you, to discuss and implement the reforms that are also contained in the budget speech. You're welcome! I'm just asking: Which?, because in this speech I didn't find much. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Between the lines!]] He mentioned an important one, namely, a new form of taxation, fair, just, once the flat tax has been addressed. – Wonderful, we like to discuss this, because for more than ten years this has been our tax concept, which would be really fair, fair and easier. But there's nothing about that in the budget speech. I then heard from ÖVP delegates: Yes, you have to read between the lines. I tried to find that. Between the lines I find a lot of spaces, but there is nothing inside either. [[Abg. Kickl: The distances are big enough!]] Mrs Finanzminister, just one question: Is this a common budget speech or a common budget or just yours? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] - Sure? The Federal Government? The SPÖ is still there. With some speeches, I have now had the impression that they do not believe that this has been a common speech or a joint project. It has already been a bit noticed that it has been a mood of the Federal Government. You have also given a very strict assessment to some SPÖ ministers in this budget speech, especially the Minister of Education. That is why it is quite right now, because we have discussed education there. However, I felt that this was something unfair, because the Minister of Education – with all the criticism – at least made some very positive proposals in the structural reform, by the way, with your Minister of Science at the time. She did quite well at the time, I think. It's a shame she changed the place. Only, it has not been implemented because it was not possible to agree on anything and because the countries have also blocked everything in terms of administrative reform. We are always asking for concrete examples, Mrs Finanzminister. I bring a concrete example from the education sector, the school sector, which a school director told me a few days ago. They have a certain budget at their disposal, they can also use it to pay off when they make small purchases, but that must be transferred, it must not be paid out cash. That's where this school director tells me: If there's a kiss coming that quickly had to get anything by €4.50, then I have to transfer €4.50 to the account of the kiss in the school. Do you know what the transfer costs, what the accounting agency of the federal government of this school will charge for this transfer of €450? – 16 €! Because that is the price of a booking line that this school is charged. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] I asked a tax advisor to cost the 80 cents. That doesn't bring the millions, but that's a bit of a symbol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] – Yes, it’s basically not bad that you put the accounts together. But that the budget given to schools, but also to the Ministries, over this detour, is then recovered and, in the meantime, is a proper administrative burden, that was not the idea when it was created. You could think about what to save in administration. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] This is where health has been addressed. You have to talk to the practitioners. Yes, there are now savings. How do they come about, among other things? It would be interesting to do something in the health field, such as to keep the social security institutions together or to prevent disease by investing in prevention. What's going on now? – The cash register contracts have been dropped by 10 percent, the number of election doctors has been pushed up. And the people who have to pay for the treatment there to a lesser extent submit the invoices and give up their claim for replacement. That's a part of the savings you made. Or: During the computer tomography studies, the growth has been covered. Now people do not wait two weeks, but two months for such an investigation. Great if you call this a saving without performance deterioration. The reality speaks another language, and there could be a lot of examples here, such as the administrative reform that you have cancelled. You could talk and negotiate with us about all these things. But I think you also want to save yourself over time with this budget, so that it is possible that you can work together for another year in this coalition. It won't come out much more. This is at the expense of the Austrians. If you offer something concrete, we're willing to work together. But that alone, these general places and that you say between the lines you should read something out, that's too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8367	For the next speeches by 1 p.m., 3 minutes, including the speeches of the Federal Ministers, are available each. President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8391	Mr President. Mr Fekter and Mr Mitterlehner! Ladies and gentlemen! I know that the opposition makes it difficult to agree to a successful labour market policy. But what Mr Themessl has done here is simply to be described as an absolute failure to deal with the subject. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: That was great!]] Whether you want or not, I have only 10,000 young people in over-company teaching workshops, including the production schools. That's all we have. You must finally take note of this! That's all we expect per month, because there's no longer any. The main focus is on occupational apprenticeship training. And if firms cannot provide enough apprenticeships – for whatever reason – then young people come to over-company training facilities. And I think we agree that training is much better than what you suggest, because you suggest that young people stay outside. - That's one point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If Mr Strutz – who is not here now – regrets that there is a three-class medicine, I am surprised that this is supposedly the case in Klagenfurt, where you do not have much to say, because the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Supervisory Board is taking all the positions of your people there in Klagenfurt. That you accept a three-class medicine in Klagenfurt is actually embarrassing, I must say quite frankly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you also think here that the red-and-white red card, which has been working for three months, has to be a bad one again: I would really ask urgently, look at the facts before, inquire and talk first! Because the famous athletes, about which it was first said loosely here, it would be 50 percent, are actually only 10 percent, ladies and gentlemen, no longer and no less. [[Abg. Kickl: Speak for a cost-benefit analysis!]] The fact that I hold you on this is actually a waste of time, but it is necessary because the citizens have a right to know with what arguments you are working on here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have a youth unemployment rate of 7.9 percent in our country. These 7.9 percent are the second best in Europe. We should be proud of it! It costs a lot of money to achieve this value. As the Federal Government in the budget for the 15 to 24 year olds in total, with the operating apprenticeship funding – also companies pay with, € 150 million of operational apprenticeship funding are spent by the enterprises themselves, via the payment procedure in the insolvency fee fund – € 500 million. That's good, excellently invested money. [[Abg. Kickl: Any numbers! It's a secret science for red esoterics!]] We don't hide people, but we make them up and openly declare all numbers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8479	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8500	Mr President. Estimated colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Several Members have mentioned: What is the real situation as regards the economy and the budget? Mr Walser, because you used the word “hidden” very often and said what we were hiding behind: What you're hiding behind is something else. Did you notice that you are hiding behind experts who all share one thing, namely, that the word “formerly” is ahead? You should perhaps do something else in this context, namely read up-to-date international newspapers and economic reports. The measure of how stable a budget really is is the international comparison. There we are in the net deficit and in the ranking in the front third. The second way to determine how good a budget and an economic situation are is by international economic comparison. We are double better than all other Member States in the EU. That's what we're looking at. That's where we're airing up, you're right. But the question is: Are we on the go right or wrong? I would say about the right thing about the diversification of our economic structure. We strive, if we have had 80 percent in Europe, with a weak growth at present, to go to other countries with great success. Important is: Involved in international, small and medium-sized enterprises – this is exactly what is covered in this budget. The second component: We need to understand that we need to change our structures in the economy, not to offer the same as always, but rather to go to the areas of eco-innovation and services. This too is successful. But I would not say that we have already achieved all the goals. There are some points you need to look at. Mrs Minister, I also have to say: If I look at who's pulling the cart, it's the economy. Wage tax € 1.4 billion plus, corporate tax € 1 billion plus next year, sales tax € 0.5 billion, with revenue there is a total increase of 5.1 percent. – It’s the economy! That is why I have to say, as far as a tax reform is concerned, that it is addressed in all the rankings, and again and again, please, tax reform, as we are actually demanding, I think it is urgently necessary from the point of view of the middle class. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: We need to make our system smoother, because the economy has restructured. This means, of course, that pension issues and everything else have a certain importance. In summary – I am unfortunately in my conclusion –: I think we're on the right path. We need to strengthen the way. If you see a discrepancy, that's the one between WIFO and IHS. At the budget we are on the safe side with the 0.8 percentage points. In terms of economic growth and the efforts for the future, I focus on the IHS, at 1.3 percentage points. When we reach it, we are at the very front of the EU as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8555	Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8577	Where do we live?, a previous speaker asked about the liberals. I think this question can easily be answered: We live in a country where we have very, very low unemployment. We live in a country where we are lucky that the proportion of those people who have to endure long periods of unemployment is very low. We live in a country where we have little unemployment in connection with young people. We live in a country where 1 billion € is made available in the 2012 budget for active labour market policies. We have the third highest budget we ever had. We live in a country in which the Federal Government has known itself to fight for working people, to preserve jobs and to make every effort to reduce unemployment. We live in a beautiful country and we can be proud of it, very valued ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We also live in a country where we place a very special emphasis on the fact that young people have a training. We have made provision in the budget for the training guarantee to be made up to 18. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. In addition, we have made arrangements in the budget to ensure operational apprenticeship funding of €160 million. And not just that: Our Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Hundstorfer, together with Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, will launch further new projects to make it even easier for young people to complete a career successfully and thus also have a career and career opportunity. We can be proud of this, ladies and gentlemen. We live in a great country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In addition, the budget has provided for the possibility of short-time work in the event that the crisis should come back to us. This is a measure that has proved successful in the past, because good, skilled workers did not have to leave the holding but could be used as short-time work that had a catchy effect. We live in a country in which the Federal Government has agreed to make the temporary scheme in connection with the educational leave unlimited. This is a measure that is so good because one can continue to qualify within an upright service relationship. This is an investment in the future! In conclusion: We live in a country, ladies and gentlemen, in which social policy and thus also human beings are at the heart of politics. And I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8634	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8655	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Minister Mitterlehner mentioned it: Austria is everywhere in the leading field, we do not need to hide the international comparison. Many who look from outside to Austria envy us for our successful economic policy and, of course, for our successful labour market policy. We have demonstrated during the last crisis that, with the right mix of economic-invigorating measures and the commitment of entrepreneurs and their employees, we have taken the right measures to ensure that we have better come out of this crisis. Now we are facing a very big challenge again, where we have the problem that there can be no real economic-invigorating measures in the form as last time. But we have set real impulses with this budget. And I think that if today we provide €100 million of special funding for research funding, donate a climate and energy fund with €175 million and re-do away with the success project thermal renovation with over €100 million, then the right measures for the Austrian economic location are Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is wrong if we are always talking about new taxes and tax increases, instead we should face the challenges, namely these controllable systems in the areas of administration, health and pensions. We certainly still have privatisation potential. You have to use this and make it transparent. Furthermore, we can certainly also build an innovative support system that focuses on more efficiency and perhaps less on overload. These are three challenges that must be accepted at this time. I would like to thank the Minister for this budget, which in times like this one gives stability and security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is important, because we must ensure that we also set up entrepreneurial parameters in the implementation of all the measures. Then: When a company is in financial difficulties, everything that can be done on the expenditure side will first be explored to maintain its competitiveness. The public sector, our state, is not a self-interest like the economy. Therefore, once again: We have to do our homework, check our tasks and see that we are taking the right course. Ladies and gentlemen! Renew instead of tax – it takes all our energy to achieve this. We in Salzburg say this when it comes to the pooling of forces of all: Not wadling, but lubrication Wadln, then go a little further!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8704	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8725	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, a “wonderful” budget. If you listen to the speakers of the government parties, you might think that this budget is even the very best it has ever given. We will now, as it were, pay off our debts and the Maastricht criteria will be almost reached. The Federal Minister has repeated it today: We will only have more than 3.2 percent deficit. We're actually on the best way, it's all beautiful in Austria. But I tell you, Mrs Bundesminister: Rather than our deficit, the ÖVP will reach the 3-percent limit, quite honestly! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, the budgetary policy you are running here is purely self-evident. Instead of trying to catch up on the economic and social conditions here – you know very well that the economy is not particularly good – you somehow continue, you do not make any consolidation at all. Pre-vocal speaker Csörgits then says from this speaker how great the labour market policy is, because we do so crazyly, short-time work is planned here again, because we are back in the crisis or shortly before such a one, and that has proved to be the case, then I say: Yes, bravo! Here's something else to see: Expenditure on unemployment benefit is increased because unemployment is expected to rise. We are very glad, however, that we have an increase in unemployment and that last May we opened the borders so that we can get additional workers from the Eastern states to Austria. That is the real reason why unemployment will rise, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is not cynical, Mr President, that has nothing to do with cynicism at all, that is a fact! They prefer to pick up some cheap workers from outside, buying that the Austrian workers are standing on the street, that they will become unemployed. This is a fact – we warned you about it! We have said that the opening of the East is not right at this time and that it should be postponed. Nothing came. One month later, the Minister of State, he said: This has been typical, the liberals have warned of something that has not come! What does it look like today, half a year later? Has Do you have any actual numbers? We don't hear anything about it, because the current figures are not so rosy and not so good at all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] That's what it's like: They are constantly trying to play a game here that is simply unfair and unfair, and the Austrians also have to pay for it. They also write in that unemployment will rise, ladies and gentlemen. Instead of going the way of rehabilitating, instead of trying to save, instead of trying to turn the finances, the budget finally into a direction, that there is air to breathing again, that necessary reforms can also be made, that we can support our Austrian families, that we can support the old and needy people, who are permanently taken away something, instead of making new debts at an altitude that takes on unimaginable proportions! [[Call the ÖVP:Lei-lei!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8805	Next speaker: Mrs Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8826	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Advisors and Here in Parliament and also at home! From the green point of view, this budget unfortunately does not meet the challenges and opportunities of the future at all. If we look at the environmental situation when we look at Austria's catastrophic climate balance, it is quite clear that we need to invest massively in environmental protection and climate protection. Mrs Federal Minister Fekter! I have looked very closely at your speech about yesterday, the 42 pages. In these 42 pages we find exactly one paragraph on the environmental budget. In this one paragraph there is only one information: that the environmental budget is supposed to be increased, and even this information is actually a deception. Formally, the environmental budget will be increased, but the additional funds will mainly go to the JI/CDM programme. That is, to inform you at home, what taxpayers now have to pay for for the wrongs of Minister of Agriculture Berlakovich in the climate issue. More than €90 million will now be added. This, unlike last year, is a doubling, and a triple compared to the three years ago. This reflects precisely the climate failure of the Austrian Federal Government. This is what taxpayers now have to pay for certificates, because Austria has not invested in climate protection. Now we have this in the budget black on white. In addition, the so-called flexible reserve is still inside. For information for you at home: This is what taxpayers pay so that industry can release CO2 free of charge. So you finance the free CO2 emissions of the industry with your tax resources, which is €92 million. [[Abg. Straw: Steel production! Punishments! That's absurd!]] This too is in the environmental budget, and I think that is a huge scandal. It is even a huge scandal to finance the free CO2 emissions by means of taxes, but that, if so, this is also financed by environmental resources, although this has nothing to do with environmental measures at all, but, on the contrary, a climate pollution means an enormous scandal! In total, we have planned € 275 million in the budget for the free purchase of our climate commitments instead of investing in climate protection instead of changing something, and that eats up the environmental budget, which is a vicious circle. The less we invest in climate protection, the more we have to buy free, the bigger this part becomes in the environmental budget, the less we can really invest in environmental measures. I think as you do, that doesn't lead to the future at all. This becomes not only an ecological disaster, but also a financial one. Against this background, I do not understand at all – in the future, the industry will have to pay for CO2 emissions; there will be €3 billion in the budget – that you will send this in the budget. This must be invested in climate protection, so that we can become oil boiler free in Austria. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] In this respect, your budget has nothing to do with climate change, with responsible investment in the future, in environmental policy at all. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] That is why I still believe that Austria urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8878	Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8899	Mrs Financier! Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! The yesterday's budget speech of the Federal Minister took 92 minutes and was and is a numerical story without visions of the future. It has been a 92-minute reading, in which general places have dominated, such as: Budget is a policy cast in figures. - No, we all know that anyway. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Primary level!]] It's a budget that's fearless and unintelligible. Terms such as “uses”, “must” and “must” are overstepped, and I really ask you: Where is the actual action of you, of this government, which has been responsible for a number of years? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Where is the action for a sustainable tax reform – instead of telling us to read between the lines, and to invent new taxes again and again? Where is the actual action for a sustainable pension reform so that the boys also have a chance to get a pension? I don't think it's going to be enough to say rehabilitation before retirement. That is part of it, but there are no clear reform measures. Where is the actual action for an administrative reform? We did not talk about it until yesterday in the field of education. There would be a lot to do. Mrs Bundesminister, although you conjure up the need and responsibility for the next generations, you propose creating a youth and family impact assessment for all measures. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] In fact, this cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom, as other measures are necessary! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would just like to point out the family budget as an example of the lack of ideas and little look into the future – even there general places again. As is said here, families are the “heart of our society”, they are “top on the list of priorities”, the “yes to children” you want to support, and actually only say that childcare facilities are part of this “yes to children”. I think this message is too simple, because you know very well that it takes more to force a “yes to children” in our society. On the one hand, there is a need for clear depreciation of the costs of children in the tax system, for which the BZÖ has a very good, clear, transparent model. It takes flexible working hours for parents, part-time opportunities in management positions and, above all, a child-friendly society in which children really have their place. A second point in this family budget is the family compensation fund of 6.3 billion. Here it is found quite lapidar that it is over-indebted with almost €4 billion and that you want to phase out these debts step by step. For me, the question now arises: How do you want to reduce these debts? Step by step – this is a very popular name, but I ask you: [[Call at BZÖ:Step by step!]] Build When You do this, and with what means do you disassemble it? That would be an exciting answer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] For me, the suspicion is very close that you're going to remove anything from the family to get rid of the debts. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They also know – especially Mr Family Minister – that as BZÖ in the committees, we have long proposed how to reorganise the FLAF and how to really transform it into a service company for the families. A third point: child care allowance. Here you are limited to stress that the income-dependent variant is something special, although you probably know very well that the long-term variant is still being chosen by more than 60 percent of the families. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] They also do not point out that the costs – and this is clearly apparent in the budget – are constantly increasing for the management of these different models, that the management is already causing excessive costs. Therefore, for us from the BZÖ, this budget, but also the budget that you have presented to us, is a forward-looking and unsustainable budget in the truest sense of the word, especially considering that 40 percent of the budget is spent on interest rates and pensions. Mrs. Federal Minister! If I read on page 32 – that's a beautiful sentence again – that you want to make visible which backpack we hang on our families and children of tomorrow, then I have to say: With this budget of waiting and the debt burden, it will be a very heavy backpack. As a BZÖ, we will prevent this by further bringing forward our proposals, ideas and suggestions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[13:03]] [[13:03:05]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e8998	Before I call the next speaker, I announce: Deputies Mag. Stadler, Dr. Rosenkranz, Amon, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of a Committee of Inquiry to clarify corruption accusations. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote shall take place after completion of the agenda. Mrs Oberhauser has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9028	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. The prophecies of the disciples of the HC, which we have heard again today, always lack any relevance. I remember: ==References== In May, a million people will be standing at the town hall square, which will storm during the eastern opening of Austria. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein and Mag. Stefan.]] Since the opening of the East, 19 000 people have been sucked up from the labour market in Austria, i.e. they have work in Austria, and yet we have a low unemployment rate – so much so to the first prophecy of the disciples of the HC. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And yet we have to... raise!]] The second prophecy: Only recently did Mr. Dr. Karlsböck let us know that spending money for the health insurance companies is like sending it to Greece, it sinks somewhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] If you look at the budget when you look at the budget of the health insurance funds, when you see what they did, you know very well that this investment was correct. She was much more correct than what happened under black and blue, namely that the health insurance funds were made really sick cash. This budget shows that it is not. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] If I still wonder what you have believed, that everything will happen, and if we have listened to the budget in today's speeches – yes, yes, we have seen the millions of people standing at the door and doing all these things – then we see that all these prophecies have not occurred. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Everything has occurred!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] From some side came the question whether it is a common budget or not. I think the budget is a common budget. It also shows very clearly the Social Democratic manuscript. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh you! That's what we noticed yesterday!]] However, we must say that in the budget debate and in the debate we have heard here today, I would already make a very clear distinction as to whether this was the common budget speech of a government or a common budget debate. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you one thing: If I had become an ice skater and wanted to get me some notes of attitude – by ministers or by Members – then I would have become. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't force me to introduce me!]] I do not believe that one of us – not even a minister – needs to be taken by a Finance Minister in her budget speech or to listen to Mr Amon that the social partners could really be a little more motivated. Mr Grillitsch always finds something to be done. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Kopf has said in his introductory words – that is, where you can save: in pensions, in health and in social matters – so I must say that I remember very well in the year 2000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] At the opening speech of the first black and blue government, there was standing at the top of the gallery – no, we didn't throw anything; maybe I'm also in the terrorism register, if that's the case – and we had T-shirts, on which stood black and blue – social reduction. [[Call at BZÖ: Hopefully you didn't throw anything down!]] [[Call the BZÖ: Have you got...!]] If I hear that the ÖVP – the budget looks different; we distinguish between speech and budget – in the social sector, in health and in pensions, I can tell you that I am very happy that we have a Social Democratic Federal Chancellor and a Social Democratic government in order that this does not happen in this form. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Ah Ruf at BZÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9204	Mr Scheibner spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9228	Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Mr. Spindelegger made the claim that the BZÖ had voted in favour of abolishing the tuition fees in 2008. - That's wrong. The BZÖ has always been and is for fair tuition fees and has therefore voted against the abolition of tuition fees in 2008.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9282	Next speaker: Mrs Franz.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9304	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] People are afraid that they will lose their savings, and stability in Europe will be doubted. A well thought-out budget also has to give answers to this, and the budget presented yesterday by our Minister for Finance gives these answers. Thank you very much, Mrs. Minister! The aim must be to fight for the security of the currency and the savings of people, to reduce the deficit as quickly as possible and to keep in mind growth. Through the debt brake, we create stability so that social peace is not threatened. Our minister has set very clearly priorities: These are the family, education, research and development – and they are right, investments in family, in research and development and in education are the right strategy for the future of a society. Furthermore, competitiveness will be strengthened and sustainable economic growth will be fostered. Austria needs well established, quality-oriented universities. For these, Federal Minister Däderle has prepared a university plan to further develop the Austrian university area. We want to finance the study ground not only at the colleges, where it has proved itself, but also at the universities. In the coming year, there will be the offensive programme with €80 million more for universities, which means about €2.85 billion in total. In addition, the announced university billions will come from 2013, which will reach the estimated 2% of GDP in 2020. The universities are also an important pillar in tertiary education. These also receive a part of the offensives and can thus continue the expansion of the places of study. In the last Science Committee, we have experienced a very successful balance sheet of the Institute of Science and Technology Austria. For this top research institute, there is an additional €32 million. The budget for research and development is around €2.4 billion, and this is a record value. So we see: Budgetary provisions in education can be seen. It is now up to us to profile Austria as an excellent educational location.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9352	The next speaker was Mr Podgorica Podgorschek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9373	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Member Matznetter has said so well, the comparison makes him sure. I can only confirm this, the comparison makes me sure, because the time of beautiful speech, as Mr Klubobmann Kopf has made this wonderful again, is completely over from my point of view. He claims that we have mastered the financial and economic crisis well. I think he hasn't even understood that we are still in the financial and economic crisis and are probably only at the beginning. It'll get much worse. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] [[Call:However, we have mastered it well...]] Unfortunately, Mrs Fekter is not here now, but she has said today, among other things, that the countries have to save and the countries will make their contribution to it. I hope she's right. Unfortunately, I lack some of the faith. I can only speak of Upper Austria, where we still have the situation that on the lower level – and especially at the ÖVP, many mayors and mayors who actually need to know how the situation is in the communities – there is no will at all that they should be taken under the arms and helped in any way. On the contrary: The country of Upper Austria forces the municipalities to outsource their liabilities or their investments in KGs, so that they can deal with the Maastricht criteria or with them - and this is the final perfide - also has the VAT advantage of being able to deduct the pre-tax. At the end of the day, the money goes off to the federal government, and basically it's just an eye-catching, because the communities get less in the financial balance. I think that this displeasure has long since been abandoned. And even Statistics Austria has already found that these out-of-budget debt must be added to the Maastricht criteria. We still have the situation, however, that two thirds of our communities cannot cover their budgets – but it does crumble, you can see. After all, eight SPÖ mayors are rebelling, and it even trusts – you hear and marvel! – an ÖVP mayor to stand up against his own authority. He demands that the Landday be halved and the Federal Council abolished. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and BZÖ.]] I have to say: Great respect for this mayor, who once stood up against the authority! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of holding on to structures, I would like to finally see a will to change. [[Abg. Schopf: The FPÖ Mayors...!]] – Our FPÖ mayors have long represented our line, they don't need to go with you. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schopf and Mr Mag. Haider.]] Furthermore, they are not even least affected because all our mayors are budgeting positively. You don't know that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister – even if she is not here – you can make these reforms quite step by step, the Big Bang will catch you anyway – and he will come faster than you believe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] Get out of your ivory tower! If we are still discussing the further increase in the EFSF today, you will see what our concerns for the future are.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9456	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Jarmer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9478	Mr President. – Should I talk without a microphone? No, again, I'll repeat. Or you're all visiting a sign language course, then we'll save ourselves the micro. - High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On today's budget: I know we're all not excited about the savings. “Social justice” keyword: The UN Convention for People with Disabilities is a term. We signed them, and the goal was that disabled people have equal opportunities, equal quality of life and equal living – from birth to work to age – with equal access, barrier-free. Without an interpreter, no one would understand me here anyway, and therefore I wonder how savings are appropriate to this objective of the UN Convention and its implementation. On the one hand, we should realize equal living and save on the other. The thought of care is everywhere. I think it's not just the Social Ministry, but everyone has to shape their budgets in such a way that there are posts for people with disabilities to live their equal lives in all areas. to be able to do so. One has to see in which resorts are barrier-free building, jobs for people with disabilities, accessibility access, customer contacts and as much as possible – all have to look. I would like to say the following: Minister! They have said in an interview that people are cared for by their families and less by extrafamily people. – Well, with the few money they get, they won’t be able to hire people either. What people need and what they really get – the sheer completely separates. People with disabilities have the desire to be able to order their assistants independently and to be able to make their way of life independent, and this thought of care – we are touchingly giving something for you – is no longer possible. We must stop treating people overly caring. The budgets are always about maintaining these thoughts, and I wonder what we signed them for. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have to stop it. Let's think about it! How many people do not yet understand the word “inclusion ”? What does inclusion mean at all? Everyone gets what he or she needs. People with disabilities have no special needs. They have needs like any other human. They eat, they drink, they have needs that are quite normal. It is very important – also to the government bank – that we abolish this image in the minds. Without my interpreter I couldn't work here because you don't understand me – not only that I couldn't understand you, but you wouldn't understand me either. That is why we may also be thinking about budgets so that this happens to everyone and everyone who gets what he or she needs! I would like to say this again: Where does social justice lead? I want to show the signs for social – “social”, “social” goes so. [[The speaker shows the corresponding signs.]] This is also the sign for ‘SPÖ’. “SPÖ” and “social” are the same signs – they are social at SPÖ – and I think the social idea has been passed on again and again, so that social issues in SPÖ can lead to justice. “Justice” means this sign, and this sign with one hand means “question sign”, with several fingers the “great question mark” or “many question mark”. [[The speaker showed the relevant signs.]] I hope that the plan will be implemented and that the division will also take these people into account. This depends not only on one place, but on all. Not only disabled people, not only old people, but Austrians should get the chance to live well and quality, and they need opportunities to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9554	The next speaker was Mr Hagen. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9575	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! 120 million € more for the executive in the budget – this, of course, sounds good first and foremost. But if you ask the whole thing a little bit, then certain questions come up. Mr Mikl-Leiter! As we are discussing the budget, I will now take this as an occasion and ask you – the Minister for Finance is no longer here, but you are the Responsible for the executives are there – how the money is invested. Maybe you can give me an answer. I would also have a few suggestions. Some time ago, I made a request on protective vests for each executive officer. These are the so-called underwear vests so that the people are protected. Today, some of my colleagues, who are now no longer alive, could still live if they had these vests and I now give you an example of how absurd the Ministry of the Interior is buying. There are protective vests that are now being newly acquired, in sizes L and M. Now we know that we have a lot of executive officials who are very narrow physically, a little smaller, who, of course, can't start with these protective vests. It's the same with the helmets. There are also the sizes L and M, there is no more. There's neither XL nor S, but there's only the middle sizes, and that's a big problem, of course, if you imagine you have to put them on. I would now like to give an exaggerated example: Then you could talk about the Calimero with a turtle tank. Some officials, who are relatively narrowly built, go down there and that's just once so you can imagine it. Here money is “wasted” – under quotation marks – or not used properly. Look at that you have a proper equipment for the executive so that the officials are also protected, then you need to train less! That's what I'm going to do. There is the example in Vorarlberg: 178 executive candidates of 200 have passed the recording tests. This is, of course, an insanity number. Where did it go? – In German and math. And if I remember that the Ministry of Education has been in black the last years – these people are between 18 and 25 years of age who are doing this course – then something really went wrong. Now, of course, you could draw another conclusion and say, okay, the people who are well qualified don't go to the police. Why not? – Because, of course, they have a fairly bad salary, have a bad service system and have not been properly done in the area. Minister! I think folk high school courses, as they are now offered in Vorarlberg, so that the police candidates learn German and Mathe, are probably the wrong way. We must start with education! Something has to be done there once! Black politics has really failed in recent years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then I would like to take a brief look at the ÖBB with the early pensioners. I referred to it in the last Transport Committee: The situation is that people with 40 years of age have been sent to pensioners who would be able to work who wanted to work. If you look at the Civil Service Act, it is said there, an official goes to rest, that is to say, in retirement, you could reactivate him. Why is this not done, ladies and gentlemen? That's a big question. That would be possible. I believe that some of the ÖBBs have now entered the regular pension, which are entitled to retire, that this could be re-occupied with too early in retirement. Where is it written that ÖBB staff must have added the overtime to the pension? This is not the case in other civil servants. There is the additional service, which is then added to the pension because there is no pension. However, in the case of the ÖBB, this is used in addition so that they can retire earlier. You have to be aware of what's going on in this area, and you have to get the secret OBB minister Haberzettl out of it once. He's supposed to explain this. I think there would be a great potential for savings, and that would be a small incentive for the Federal Government to take measures here to demand justice in this state. The last thing I want to talk to is the coral tunnel. It proved yesterday that the EU is convinced of this project, so that the Baltic-Adriatic axis is forced so that EU funds flow here. I can well remember that in here we have been shocked because we are for this axis, for this coral tunnel, which is extremely important for Carinthia and for the south of Austria. That was a reasonable decision from us. They fought us, the EU gives us the right, ladies and gentlemen. That's how politics is done, not how you do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9655	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9676	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In fact, it is always the same for all budget discussions, whether first reading or then special debates: The opposition speakers criticize all loans or debts, but demand more in each budget chapter. How this is supposed to happen, someone should show me once and not just formulate every year. But I believe – if you look at the world or Europe, and we look at Austria – if you make yourself here and pretend that the Federal Government has not done an excellent job and has not handled the financial and economic crisis excellently since 2008 until the present day, then the denial of reality, ladies and gentlemen, is. [[Abg. Grill: Since 2000...!]] Once we put the facts on the table quite openly, we look at it across Europe, we look at the discussions, and then we look at how we are working here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, of course I would also like to address a chapter which concerns me in particular: This Federal Government has also given a special priority to security. Mr Hagen, now you can talk about a lot and I have also listened closely to what has been said in the last two days, but if we start now, even where it is about 120 million € more, to crush it, yes then I wonder quite slowly: [[Abg. Hagen: I just asked you to use this properly!]] We can all know where we meet our wishes. I believe that an excellent work will be done, and I believe that it would be good for us together once – because you are from the same profession – that we should say a thank you to our colleagues in the public service and especially to the executive – also from here – and not just some abstraction. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As we implemented yesterday a long-standing wish of the executive and the rescue forces, in the middle of the night that we finally carry out the blood tests, ladies and gentlemen expect to do so and not tact, whether I agree at third reading or not. For the people, with the people – this is what makes this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, and we do not need to speak badly – in all clarity. [[Complaints and bravails at SPÖ as well as applause with the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have been listening since the start of this federal government: no people for the police. This federal government has done this and looks at just how many planning places there are: Just as done, 1 000 planning posts more in this legislative period and all have laughed and broken it, but 330 posters have in the meantime come over and help in the administrative field. I can only tell you that the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior are satisfied, the Postlers are satisfied, they have a new perspective and a new task. This is an innovation and an important work that I believe we should do together. And I do not want to thank the Federal Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor, at all the Federal Government, for the fact that the safety of our Austrians is such a high priority for this Federal Government. - Thanks to all those who worked there.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9760	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9781	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! After Otto Pendl, my colleague from SPÖ, I can only say that, yes, you were right because the same is reflected in the opposition parties, in the Greens and, unfortunately, in my dear colleague Ursula Haubnervom BZÖ, in the family area. There is only pity, pity, pity, but not looking at what is actually happening. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In her budget speech, Federal Minister Fekter said in the chapter on Economy, Family and Youth: Here we come “to the heart of our society. ” Here €6.3 billion is planned. The income-dependent childcare allowance – this variant is very, very well accepted – or the father's participation in the karenz was increased to 31 percent. I would also like to say that €55 million has been made available annually to countries for the extension of childcare for children under the age of three, with the focus on the promotion of day mothers and €70 million for free kindergartens by the end of 2013. These are not small amounts. In addition, €5 million has been made available for the continuation of language early promotion, but €80 million has also been made available for the further expansion of all day care in schools. That's not a small amount. Again: This is where the Greens and, unfortunately, the BZÖ are talking about not investing in the future of our children, in our future. I can only tell you, for the ÖVP, for Vice Chancellor Michael Spindelegger, for our Minister of Finance, but also for the Minister of Family means the future: Family, children, education or what Maria Theresia Fekter said at the end of her budget speech, namely for her is the social peace, the standard of living and the importance of freedom. – And that, I believe, is guaranteed in Austria. There's no need to talk bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9826	Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9850	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann has shaped the sentence at the 2012 budget: It is a balanced way of economy and investment. – Unfortunately, in the field of health, I cannot sign this, even if I wish that it should go exactly in this direction. The direction is wrong and the visions are missing. Instead, the existing funds are put into a few, expensive prestige projects, for example in the prestige project ELGA. As we have often communicated in recent days, this is becoming a million tomb: €30 million were forecast, €150 million will be shot. In fact, these extreme costs face the unresolved issue of data security and the problem of incomplete patient data through the so-called opt-out, i.e. the contradiction to data storage by the patient. In Germany and in Switzerland, similar projects have been cancelled, after realizing that they do not bring the desired effect. I would also like this to be done here, instead of that, the health reform discussion we have seen last year really goes in the wrong direction. We have three concepts: A hospital concept of the main association was presented to us, it was presented to us a so-called target control model of the ministry and the health conference presented its own model. Summa summarum, now, at the beginning of October, at the last conference of the country's health experts, it turned out that there really is an absolute standstill here that there is even chaos. If one hears that Mr. Landesrat Sobotka – I would just like to quote him here now – calls the proposal presented by Federal Minister Stöger so incomplete and incomplete that even the SPÖ-led countries did not carry the paper, says the coalition partner, then this is a very strong rejection of this plan. To sell the federal financial syringe as a success model, just as the German Chancellor has done today, is an increase in tax payers – also a quote from the Landesrat. In this discussion, concepts around such as rationalization, bureaucracy, sanctioning and standardisation, uniform performance documentation are to be introduced according to international standards. – Summa summarum means all that, it costs a lot of money, and brings very little underline for the patient. On the contrary, the doctor-patient ratio is worsened even more by the time budget. In his remarks, the Minister now also writes about the budget: The priority is to describe an expenditure dampening path. – Expensive damping path is translated into the German reduction of performance and it means the direct way into a two- or multi-class medicine. We're getting more and more commissions. Commissions grow up in heaven, we break everything up. As has been said, in the debate on health reform, we actually need much more visionary ideas of reform instead of the ruling spasm. I say, not the commercial director, but the patient must be at the centre of interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9893	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9916	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! In yesterday's budget speech, Minister Fekter particularly emphasized the importance of emphasising that this federal government is very important for research and science. I quote from her budget speech: “Research and development are undisputed priorities in the Federal Government.” And: “Research stands for the future! We want to design them and not simply insist on the administration of the past.” Yes, the time of the budget discussion is when we look at the realities, look at the numbers. And yes, this federal government is talking a lot about research. It adopts a strategy for research, innovation and development in Austria in March, promises targets such as 3.76 percent of the gross domestic product on investment in research by 2020, and forgets to describe the way to define the measures and the dosage for them. All of this has been called for by experts for months. And, of course, everyone is waiting very excited for the budget. What's it look like? What does it mean, then, for these areas of research, in science next year? Last night the Minister stressed that there should be €66 million more for science. If you look more closely at this UG 31 science and research and take into account the preliminary payments, you have an increase in speech and writing 0.71 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! 0.71 percent, and nominally considered – put this in relation to the inflation rate, which is set by the experts at 3 percent for this year, then see that this area has a real minus! And it is no different, ladies and gentlemen, for the UG 33 industry and research and for the UG 34 transport, innovation and technology. If you pull these three areas together, you have an increase of exactly 1 percent – and that nominally, ladies and gentlemen! It's real in the minus. What we have here in this budget is ultimately a concealment and an administration, an administration of the standstill, which in this form will really be at the disadvantage of youth. And that is why the call to this Federal Government, to ÖVP, to SPÖ, will discuss intensively over the next few weeks, to find solutions to how to do exactly the fields of science and research better, higher, sufficient in the sense of the future of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9963	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e9984	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Finance Act 2012 is, as it were, a part and a continuation of the Federal Financial Framework Act from 2011 to 2015. It offers no big surprises, although the side of the SPÖ always says we want to tax the rich. The ÖVP says that we do not want a tax increase, but a tax reduction. There is no future forecast in this area at all. The Secretary of State has previously said that we are gradually working on debt reduction. Mr State Secretary! With permission, the majority of the population, even the experts believe that the government debt is now a barrel without soil, if we We are not responding, we are out of state liability, we are paying for other states, we are paying for other banks and we are liable. Inflation is galloping, especially in the goods of daily needs, which in turn affects those who do not have a little less income in life. The purchasing power does not increase, but rather is falling, the revenue also increases. The development of expenditure is such that we have a funding jungle in Austria. I mean, social policy is always a redistribution policy, and it is the system of the Solidarity Community that those who have something more give something for the others that have less in life. But there are also subsidies in the economic and agricultural sectors and there we have a funding jungle in Austria. I say the best promotion is the tax reduction, because there I have no bureaucracy, no administration, but everyone gives themselves his support because you just pay less taxes. [[OBJECTIVES]] This is the nonplusultra. In Austria, over 50 percent of the total tax revenue is spent on work, and this is quite simply the problem. Because those people who don't have much income, too, pay a great deal with the taxes and fees of the countries and communities. This simply exceeds their justified share at the moment. What I notice is that there is no mention of reforms in this federal financial law at all. There's a reform store. There is a need for an administrative reform, a state reform, which is always spoken of by everyone, but it is simply lip recognition of red and black, otherwise you would have to amputate yourself if you intervene there. That's the problem. And since the early retirement age has already been stressed today and is constantly being said, we have to stop these holes in the early retirement and so on and so on, we have to raise the early retirement age, I now tell you both addressed to the government bank: We certainly do not have a problem in the entire population, because it would certainly have to see that we have to raise the retirement age if all holes leading to the early retirement were stopped before if all privileges, whether at the train, in the country, in the federal government or in the national bank, were to be removed, so that there was no longer the possibility that someone might be before the 60. He's in retirement for a lifetime. That's it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One cannot put on the lever with those who have worked for over 45 years and are 60, 61, or 62 years old. In addition, we also have the problem in Austria that someone who becomes unemployed at 62 or 63 does not, although he has paid unemployment insurance, receives unemployment benefit and is reported as unemployed, but has to go to early retirement before 65. That's the problem! In addition: Do we have jobs – which is not at all spoken of – for older people? Do we even have them? It is always said that we have the lowest unemployment in Europe, that is also good, but if you take that part of the people who go in early retirement, and tell them where practically the unemployment of older workers can be found, then we have a little different division. Then we have a lower early retirement and a higher part of unemployment. It's like that once. Now I'm talking to you: It is always said that the federal government has to pay so much to the pensions. Yes, that's a big crumb, because just this age pyramid is such that now the birth-like vintages come to the pension. But the federal grant, ladies and gentlemen, is for ASVG insured persons 13, 14 percent, 34 percent for self-employed and 80 percent for farmers. We don't need to talk about the officials, because he's 90 percent and about it. We should think about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10056	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10078	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Creating a budget in difficult times, in times of coming crisis, is certainly a great task, and you have solved it well. Congratulations, Mrs. Federal Minister, Federal Ministers and Mr. State Secretary Arbitrators! It has already been said by previous speakers today that if you are a lot abroad and you draw comparisons – and as a member of the Council of Europe, I often have the opportunity to represent Austrian positions abroad – you can also say here: The comparison makes sure. If we look at the health system in other countries, how happy we are when we come home and can enjoy the care here in a hospital. Then we can be proud of our country. Or, for example, yesterday evening. We went home late, but I didn't have a problem walking in my apartment here in Vienna. I've been scared of zero. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where do you live? In what district?]] That too is an important factor to experience the security here in our country, the security in this city. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The question of unemployment, a very central point not only in Austria but also in other European countries. If more than 20 percent of young people in our neighboring countries are unemployed, that means that for this youth often the perspective, the possibilities for the future are missing. The Federal Government is to be thanked for having put in place the right measures here. This was a very important and central measure. And if this budget pays attention to the fact that if unemployment is rising again, it is very likely that it will be taken into account, then it is not black-seeing, but it means taking good care of times that may become more difficult. The question of the protection of violence is also being taken very seriously in us. I always pay attention when I look at a budget or when I look at legislative proposals: What about women's compatibility? Here again, of course, I have taken care of it, and I have noticed that we are still spending a lot of money, well-invested money for the anti-violence institutions. We are working well together here between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Women, and I hope that we will make it possible to create these emergency apartments for traded women. I am convinced that we are on a good path here and that we are still evaluating it. I still think a lot of things. I don't want to talk about anything, and of course we have to do a lot more so that our country achieves 100 percent equality, 100 percent equal treatment, even between the sexes. The retirement age was discussed again today. The level of pension for men and women, for example, is something to look more closely at, the ‘woman’, if measures are now being put in place here, for example, in the case of women's own collective contract rounds, when care periods are also to be taken into account in collective agreements. It is not about the five years difference in the statutory retirement age, because the difference in the de facto age between men and women is only two years, but the difference between wages or between pensions is a more horrendous, namely, more than 40 percent. Here injustice continues. Here we need higher wages. Here we need more justice in our society.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10120	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10142	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is a budget of a new culture, namely performance and social responsibility, and the citizens – we know this from many conversations outside the communities – are in favour of a powerful society, but they also want a human society. This means that much has to be done, and many things have already been said today: Consolidating the government budget, structural reforms and creating – this is an essential point – incentives for growth. But in order to implement, reform and develop all these areas, which have now only been mentioned by me, we need the citizens of our country. For if they do not go along with these reforms, if they are not informed accordingly, we will not succeed. The citizens who are women and men in our country must be able to be sure that their savings, whether large or small, are safe, they must be able to be sure that their money also retains its value, and they must be able to be sure that the health care can be financed in the future, so that the treatments they need are also manageable for the individual. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Citizens must be able to be sure that they are not only well cared for in old age, but that they also have their pensions on their accounts in good time so that they can finance their evenings accordingly. The citizens of this country, the families must be able to be sure that their children get the best training in order to exist in the working world and to be able to care for themselves. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it was also a completely new way in the preparation of this budget, namely that where tax money is used, this will be checked for generation flexibility. That is, what has been done so far, “Enjoy now and pay later! ” We can't enjoy it now and let our boys pay for it later. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Completely right! Bravo!]] That is why it seems very important to me that this upper limit of expenditure, which we have set up here with our new budgetary law until 2015, is also enshrined in the Constitution. We need – and we need to protect ourselves from it – no electoral sugars that are ultimately not only sour, but are difficult in the stomach for years and decades and are effectively not feasible or non-financial. Ladies and gentlemen, I am personally and also our Minister of Finance and, as I know, our Minister of the Interior Hanni Mikl-Leiter is also a special concern and an important goal to preserve and maintain social peace in our country. Let us look at Germany, France, England, where houses have burned, where cars are burning, where unrest prevails in high youth unemployment, where violence prevails. And this social peace means for us also to give and secure broad prosperity. However, we can only achieve this broad prosperity if there is financial stability in this country. And this budget is the basis for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10190	Next speaker: Mr Venier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10212	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! At my very first meeting here in the House yesterday, I was given the great honour of enjoying the 2012 budget fetter, and I must honestly say that I was disappointed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Not only have I missed a lot of topics in this budget speech in general, but I have missed the point of youth very painfully. In this small paragraph – I quote from the scriptum of the minister – the youth was given “very great” attention: “We can be particularly proud of the low level of youth unemployment. Youth is our future, and we must always pay special attention to it." My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, that's too little for me! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Apart from the fact that there is still a quota at the top of the text, which has an unemployment rate of 7.9 percent in the area of youth, which, as we have already heard today, is not right in the case of Weitem, only because of the fact that young people looking for a place of training are completely lost in these statistics and are not appearing here. This shows, however, that the Federal Government has relatively low the importance it attaches to youth. What black and red afford here in the field of youth is embarrassing and should actually be corrected as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Good enough, it seems that the young people are putting up with their 9 billion debts alone this year, too little good we are likely to be thinking about the future of youth. Here, too, I see a big manko and a need to catch up. The representatives of this Federal Government, first and foremost the Minister of Finance, maintain a style here to betray and sell the youth in my eyes. Here again, I am convinced that these young people in Austria, who are very concerned and who also have a depressing perspective, especially in the labour market and also in the education sector, will certainly ensure that this black and red mourning game will soon come to an end. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I don't know when you finally understand, although you get it presented daily in surveys: The Freedom Party seems to be focusing on the right issues, the Freedom Party has the right approach to offer. [[Abg. Oils: Which one? Which one?]] They see it presented in the surveys how it affects. You see it, and I can only underline it: You lose, we win. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10279	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10301	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests at the gallery! I would like to see an understandable and transparent budget, I would like to make a budget proposal from our Federal Government, where, if you look at it in detail, you can see: That is what is planned in these areas, the following measures are being taken, and the costs are so great. That's not the case this time, either. Since in 3 minutes I can hardly deal with all the topics that are located in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, I will address what you say over and over again that this is supposed to be your focus, namely, learning German. I am talking about integration, about living together. If we look at this and know that the Federal Government is always saying that learning German is extremely important – and I would like to stress here once again that we all agree here in the house that German knowledge is necessary, meaningful and also vital for all those who live in Austria – if we know that the Federal Government always says that it wants it, it would promote it, it would force it to do so in part, as it claims, then we must say: But if you look at the budget or the budget estimate, you find nothing to do with it! It is not possible, at best, to determine the means for which measures are to be taken in this area. It is quite surprising, Madam Minister of the Interior – the Secretary of State for Integration is unfortunately not among us, therefore I can only address my words to you in this area at the moment – but it is very amazing and not understandable if you say all the time that German can, learn German is extremely important for migrants and we, namely this Federal Government, ensure that they come to this German knowledge. I made a detailed parliamentary request in May, and the answers I received have surprised and amazemented myself, namely: The Federal Ministry of the Interior does not know how many people attend German courses. The Federal Ministry of the Interior does not know how many people attended German courses, but unfortunately the German exam did not succeed. The Federal Ministry does not know and obviously does not interest itself in how many people have sought to extend German courses. – I could continue this list infinitely now. And in view of this, do you want to provide for better German knowledge? – I ask myself, Mrs Innenminister: How do you plan to make sure that these necessary measures are taken if you do not know and do not plan to know or determine them? And it also looks like this budget: One cannot see what is really planned for German courses and other integration measures! On the basis of this budget, I would recommend that you: End that standstill at last! Finally, put in place clear measures on what you are planning in the area of integration, and with a transparent budget, please ensure that these necessary measures are also made visible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10349	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10370	High house! The budget – an empty speech without future prospects. The Minister of Finance is excited by the Therme Loipersdorf, where she looks only over her small plate edge. This shortsightedness creates great problems. Thus, every newborn citizen hangs a backpack with 31 500 € debt by 2014, each newborn comes into the world with 31 500 € debts. Today, the ÖVP pledges the future prospects of the next generations. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP as a family party has long since resigned. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's not a cabaret, it's sad truth. We took over these important family competences from BZÖ with Josef Bucherlang. The citizens already know that. The deficit is again huge and amounts to around €9 billion. The debt mountain will grow by €8 billion next year, only in terms of interest rates. That's incredible! Here too, the Minister of Finance Fekter has remained guilty of the answer, namely to show the way in which Austria can get out of this debt. Your budget only manages the standstill of SPÖ and ÖVP in the resorts. That is why this government has failed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Despite intensive search, no savings will is recognizable here. Structural measures, as the Court of Auditors is constantly calling for, are pushed to the long-term, they are missing at all levels. There is a great need for action, for example, in the areas of education, health, care, pensions and, above all, in the administration. The approach of these heavy chunks is towed further by red and black. The reform stand is prolonged in this government. With this budget you continuously reduce the standard of living of the Austrians. The purchasing power is thus weakened sensitively. Fekter wants to relieve the middle class, but has not created any conditions for this. Mass taxes introduced in their time of government, such as the bank levy or the rise in the price of petrol, remain stable and continue to scrape citizens. The citizens have been properly eaten because they are being abandoned by this Federal Government. This government is paying taxes on pleite greeks and speculators on the financial markets. We from the BZÖ state: Enough paid! Enough paid in wrong channels! [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] Our tax money must remain in Austria and also be used here on site. Logically, we are refusing this Fekter’s glass ball budget to the sharpest.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10437	The next item is the speech by Mr Heinzl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10458	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Investments, especially in infrastructure, are a major support to the economy and, as I believe, decisive for Austria to have the lowest level of unemployment in Europe. The increase in the budget of BMVIT in 2012 to €2.9 billion not only ensures the further expansion and modernisation of our infrastructure, but also, most importantly, thousands of jobs. The massive modernisation of the road, but in particular the railway infrastructure in Austria, continues in 2012 at an unlimited speed. A total of more than €2.1 billion will be invested in current rail projects next year so that the expansion of international axes can be financed as well as regional projects. Ladies and gentlemen! From 2011 to 2016, the total investment in the rails – in the rails alone! – more than € 12.8 billion. About half of these will be invested in the inventory network. This ensures the ongoing renovation and maintenance of more than 5,000 kilometres of existing rail network and thus also safe operation. High house! A well developed rail is an important backbone for our Austria. The public services ordered by the Federal Government not only ensure the transport of commuters, which is also very important, but also make an essential contribution to reducing CO2 emissions. Ladies and gentlemen! No Austrian Federal Railways, for example, would mean 36 000 additional trucks – almost one third of all goods transported in Austria – and this would bring the complete collapse of traffic on the road. The Austrian Federal Railways are also making a significant contribution – I have been allowed to say this yesterday – in shuttle traffic: 4 200 trains per day and 900 bus lines will surely bring 500 million passengers each year to the destination. In order for the Austrian Federal Railways to continue to be successful, the rail must be one: fast, affordable and safe. The target network 2025 is therefore constantly being continued. A high-performance rail infrastructure with 30 percent more capacity will be created. In detail, this means, ladies and gentlemen: 40 percent of the goods on the rail, 60 million passengers more, 50 million train kilometres more, 2,000 more daily trains – additional trains every day! Finally, ladies and gentlemen: The largest investment in infrastructure in the Second Republic are these planned construction measures, and this is very important for our future, our Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10501	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Bartenstein. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10523	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Surely they may be, they certainly are not cheap, the rails. But later on. Minister of Finance Fekter presented the budget in a coherent and impressive manner yesterday and today. It is good that the deficit is at least Maastricht-near. If growth had not broken down a long way in the last few weeks, we might even have achieved the 3.0 percent Maastricht limit next year. That's a good one. Message. This budget is also available in European comparison. This budget is also tangible in the sense of offensive elements – with all the consolidation effort – towards growth, the future; Investment in research, development, thermal insulation and others has been mentioned. But, ladies and gentlemen, we still have two structural problems with our budgetary situation and certainly until tomorrow. One is a negative primary balance. This means that even without interest rates, revenue does not exceed expenditure. That's a problem. I don't want to talk about debt or interest traps, but it's a problem all the time. And the other is the debt: They're not going back, but they're going up again. That's not good either. Two Achilles fersen – I am already coming to the end – have already been mentioned on the expenditure page. The First – Mr. Professor Van der Bellen has attracted this among other things – our pensions are. Pensions and their spending dynamics are no longer portable. Maria Fekter said that the bill is out of date. Van der Bellen has criticized how much more the pension costs compared to what the effort for research and development, for education increases. The federal grant – and this is nothing but tax means, ladies and gentlemen, – will rise by no less than 600 million to €9.2 billion next year. That's clearly too much. Yes, to ensure our pensions, but pensions must not cost us the future. Now, Mr Heinzl, to the ÖBB. Maria Fekter also spoke clear words about this, exhorted that it would be a cost explosion to intervene. I'm saying it can't be the ÖBB without soil. It is not 9.2 billion, like the federal grant to pensions, but clearly more than €6 billion of Austrian taxpayers apply to ÖBB, year after year, trend increasing. [[Mr Haberzettl, Mr Heinzl and Mr Mag. Kuzdas.]] The excitement on the ÖBB union banks is once again pre-programmed, Mr Heinzl and Mr Haberzettl. These are the expenses of the taxpayer for infrastructure, for public services, for the free movement of students and apprentices, for the orders of the countries and municipalities, for the ÖBB-pensionists and ultimately also for the liability – because unlike other liability applies to the liabilities which the Federal Government has taken over for the ÖBB and will still assume that they will be very likely to also hit. These are not grants in the classical sense, but they are all benefits of the taxpayer for the ÖBB. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] That's why I'm saying: Surely the track may already be, but it certainly is not cheap. And then you should finally come at your own door and start a little bit with saving.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10586	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10607	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! I am obviously always enjoying here – and that was the case yesterday – that I am really getting involved in a dispute between the two government parties. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] This is really amusing to observe, and to do so, one of the first lines of the Minister's budget speech is to adapt: “The last few years have been like a stormy low, a rough wind with severe turbulence and uncertainty.” If I look at this acting here, I know why we're in this deep. Only the Federal Government is responsible for this, because in the end you swim around on the cracking river like fuelwood, completely unorientated. Ladies and gentlemen! The “Kurier”, the “Economic Sheet” and the “Press” have all but approved yesterday’s budget speech. I can tell you a few things: “unspectacular”, “emotional”, “no surprises and changes”, “woods” and “sleep in”. – So you can summarize it. If I can quote the press: Fekter “represented this government and its agony... just too perfect.” In the “Kurier”: “a single language sausage”, “not... a budget speech, but... a budget reading”. The third newspaper, the “Economic Sheet”: ‘Feeder has no plan at all’. “No trace of administrative reform, no trace of savings, no measures to increase the retirement age,” – we have just heard – “not to find anything from a discharge of the depleted middle class”. – Austria is a high tax country, is even known in these documents. In the end, there has been this federal government – with a short break, that is right – for decades, but I wonder why Austria is still one of the high tax countries. Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter – unfortunately not present at the moment – in the end the paper of your budget speech does not contain any more than hot air, has zero content and is ultimately not worth anything. There are enough examples of this. It describes: At the “all-time high” of employees, around 3.5 million in employment! – It all sounds wonderful, just: If we look at the type of employment more closely, we can see that today we have very few employees, atypical employees, and there is no way of talking about a great job throw. They are proud of the low level of youth unemployment. For the time being, I can remind you: 50 000 unemployed young people – where these young people are particularly affected by the start of government, in which the government agreement has provided a guarantee of employment! – With no help, there is no such thing as that! If young people do not find a teaching place because they do not support the economy accordingly – tag Blum-Bonus; even this calls for the Freedom Party to finally reintroduce the Blum-Bonus for years – then these young people are transferred to the over-company training centres. A mockery for 50,000 unemployed young people! On page 9, a high-performance state is found. – Yes, with this official moloch, with this head of water in our Federal Republic with all the countries – behind me is a former representative of the state of Lower Austria; I think there could be a start of a strong move in the administration. [[The speaker points to the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Mag, who is sitting on the Government Bank. Mikl Leiner]] With regard to the competitive economy: We know the economy is moaning under the tax burden, the middle class is being extorted. Stable finances are shown on page 9. That's where I wonder: In this euro crisis, where our balances are secured, our savings are all other than secured I think that all of this is just hot air and statements of intent that relate to things that could have been initiated for a long time. On page 13, you will learn that there will be no new savings package for families. – Thank you for that! You took away 400 million € from the families last year! So should we now praise not burdening families this year?- Oh, my God! – Also a hoon! Conclusion: This budget is a single inconsistency. And – I emphasize this for the x-th time now – there is therefore quite clearly a rejection by the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10699	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10720	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear visitors! I would like to address two parts of the budget that are very busy with me. On the one hand, this is the budget of the women's resort. You have to look at this in percentages: 0.013 percent of the total budget is available from the Ministry of Women. That's 10.5 million euros. As Mr Wurm has already said, it is very important and good that women's and girls' advisory bodies are financed primarily, but also by law. However, what is annoying is that of these 10.5 million euros, if you calculate this, in the new budget about 1 million € is reserved for PR and printing costs. 1 million out of 10.5 million who are available for women's advice, for girls' advice and for areas of violence – I find that very remarkable not only in times when government inseracy has become a bit of a lie, said, but also in times where we are saving. And it is not entirely understandable to see and understand why 10 percent of the female budget is spent on this – with a minister who is known for the fact that she is really comprehensive and happy to advertise, as was the last time in her salary calculator she introduced. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] One can also argue about this, but especially critical I find the many self-PRs, and this is obviously also quite large for 2012. One more thing: It would really be a concern to me to start right where perhaps more staff needs exist. In girls' and women's advice centres, this means that there will be no additional means, but that they will continue on narrow track or just with what is now being done. And I don't think that's enough. I would like to address a second point, namely the development cooperation which Mr Van der Bellen has already referred to today, the small part of the budget of the foreign sector. I find it remarkable that the Minister has repeatedly shown that she has no idea what development cooperation is – in contrast to disaster aid. She said this yesterday, in a sentence, that now all the African aid and emergency aid for the hungry in Africa are being provided. – This is not development cooperation! And it would be good for the Minister to be good at it, as he finally distinguishes and acknowledges that it is our duty to provide disaster aid, but that it is also our duty to have a corresponding and significant share of the budget, in this case of the Foreign Ministries. to make available for development cooperation. And that's not the case. The Minister – Spindelegger in this case – saves a total of € 4.3 million in the ministry, 12.5 million in the EZA alone. That is, it shifts and finances personnel costs of the new State Secretariat and others at the expense of development cooperation. This is not to be understood, especially in times when we continue to remove ourselves from the fulfilment of our international obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10771	The next item is the speech by Mr Windholz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10793	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Mr State Secretary! High house! Many people have asked themselves the question: Will it finally be so far as reform is concerned? At a time of the financial and economic crisis, where the financial resources are becoming very, very scarce, it was likely that a decades-long discussion would result in reforms. Where do we need reforms everywhere? – In the field of health, in the field of pensions, in the field of school law, in the law of employment and remuneration, in the public service, in the salary law. We need a total red tape reduction, an ÖBB reform, a reform of the health insurance companies, which can already be said in two words: the sick cash registers. [[Abg. Schopf: For the first time positive, the cash registers!]] – They are positive for the first time. And I tell you, in turn, these are the arguments to say: No reform! Now they are a little positive, so just no reform! – I say to you: This reform is overdue, this reform must come! What we need is an intelligent saving in the Republic – right now! And we should also use this to finally create incentives for performance providers, for the service providers also in the public service, for example. [[Deconstratetive applause with BZÖ]] What we constantly demand of you is the reduction of bureaucracy, is the slim state we all want. They do not come to face up to these reforms. What we're experiencing now is sort of an exchange: Comes a quiet proposal from the SPÖ, immediately there is a No from the ÖVP!, and vice versa: If the ÖVP dares to address a small reform – I take the key word ÖBB here; the former Secretary of State of the State finds himself in the bank of Deputies, which obviously has spoken too loud – then immediately comes from the SPÖ a no! I'll tell you: People are already angry! The angry citizen is well formed slowly, because it is not to be seen that the citizen's handle is always in the wallet and that in this government it is not possible to finally implement reasonable reforms. Reforms should not be constantly promised. What we need is innovation and not a standstill that you deliver to us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with this budget you have presented here, you will clearly miss the goal of creating a slender state and implementing the necessary reforms. You have also referred to the communities, and I am allowed to take a short look at them. You think that on page 15, the municipalities have committed themselves to creating budgets of equal value each year. – Question: How do we get to these balanced budgets? If you think you're doing this with breakdowns and with an investment stop, then you're, like I mean, on the wood road. There are two areas which cannot be influenced by the municipalities, namely income and social contributions. In view of the flea of economic activity that comes to us, it will soon be over again with the jubilation reports about rising yields. Social contributions will continue as before. These sums are reduced to the top, and I can tell you that the communities are already standing with their backs to the wall. The Minister for Finance can hold readings here, he can argue that there are balanced budgets – the reality, unfortunately, looks quite different! They will not avoid implementing reforms. I can only tell you: Start with it at last! With every budget year you miss it, it will become more difficult.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10841	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10863	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Two comments on my previous speakers. On the one hand: Mr. Windholz, define once “Performance Carrier”! Is that the one who deserves a lot? Is this the service provider, or are these those people who provide services but have no great merit? Define this once! They're always just talking about service providers, but they don't say who you really mean. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point: Mr Bartenstein, I am always amazed at the vehemence of an Austrian traditional large company. In my opinion, this does not give evidence of political far-sightedness, but is actually a nesting pollution if one keeps putting Austrian companies in a negative light. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now, in principle, on my subject, ladies and gentlemen, on family policy. Among other things, it is also about how we define family. How is the real representation, how do we manage to define the real representation of today's family concept? – Family, ladies and gentlemen, for us, means that people want to take responsibility for each other and must take responsibility for a very specific phase of life or even for a long time alone or in community, often across generations, and also for each other. Family is a form of belonging, which in the course of time, in the change of society, has changed over and over again and again and again individually. Family means taking on responsibility. The impact of responsibilities and resources must be defined and re-structured, including with a view to separation. We believe that the legal framework is designed in such a way that this responsibility can be assumed. We are mainly concerned with the quality of living together. This is crucial, not the structure in which people are located. Families need support, the benefits are indicated in the budget template. We will still have a lot of time to deal with the individual chapters very intensively. A total of around 1.4 million families benefit from these financial benefits up to benefits, including 90 000 patchwork families and 200 000 single-parent or single-parent families. In Austria we have 1.2 million children from 0 to 14 years of age and around 498 000 young people from 14 to 19 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 6.3 billion expenditure, 6.2 billion euros of revenue. We have a large sum available to support the children, the young people, the families in Austria. We will continue to discuss many areas. I am already looking forward to entering the debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10920	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10941	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has been said many times today: We have to save! . In my view, we have to save a lot more than it has been, and we also have a budget. I assume that, in the near future, there will also be significant structural measures that will put pressure on our deficits and enable us to really repay our debts. At the same time, we also need to invest, not in interest for debt that we have, but in projects that ensure the future capacity of our country. In this context, I would like to expressly mention the Brenner Base Tunnel, because I feel it is legitimate when a single, such a large project is realized, to question the sense of meaning over and over again. The Brenner Base Tunnel is the most important axis over the entire Alpine region. More heavy-duty vehicles, more heavy trucks than all other Alpine crossings in total! Mont Cenis, Fréjus, Semmering, they all together do not have such a big traffic volume as the burner. The Austrian Federal Railways – and I also consider this to be legitimate – do not think much of investing in the Brenner, simply and grippingly because in the past they have not managed to deal with the extremely lucrative freight transport themselves. Over the Brenner, unlike the Westbahn, 45 percent of foreign train companies – the Italian state railways, the Deutsche Bahn, but also private – are already transporting goods. Without the restraint of the actual project operator, it is no wonder that this project is being discussed over and over again, but if we are serious about moving from road to rail with a European transport policy, we must make this investment. It is also useful for Austria in that it is built with us, although we ourselves have only one third of the costs to bear, because both Italy and the European Union stand by their commitments and pay two thirds. For this reason, I would ask that this project in this House be discussed with greater sensitivity in the future and that it be given a better overview than it has been in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e10979	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11000	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today in the Early on, Mr Cap said that it would be a good practice to discuss the debate the day after the budget speech. That is true, but there are as important areas as those of cultural policy, which Mrs Fekter has not lost any word, even this morning. The Federal Chancellor has also not found it worth the effort to talk about something as important as our country of culture Austria. As if culture were something negligible, just a decoration and therefore not worth mentioning. For us, the liberal is not an ornament, but it is the foundation of the society on which it stands and on which it builds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know, ladies and gentlemen, I say this very often, but that, as I think, is also right. We liberals are the only ones here in the house who want to respect our cultural heritage, our values, our traditions, ideas, customs, customs, language and religion and to pass it on to next generations. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] We consider it our duty to be free to pass on our cultural wealth. In other words, no parallel companies; People who migrate must integrate; no use of cultural strizzis, large cultural institutions for their party-political games and as a playground. We can all remember Director Noever of the MAK, the North Korean Glorifier – you can all remember his exhibitions – who has still struggled for his great executions and has not developed any sense of injustice at all that he has misused the Museum of Private Festivals. Similarly, it deals with the career of Mr. Matt, the art hall director, whose apartment could already be made an anticorruption museum. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore: no feeding system-compliant artists, who are proudly provided every year for travel, for expensive, technical toys, such as Gstettner, Menasse, Glavinic and as they are all called. All these artists are characterized by the fact that, if necessary, they can move through the FPÖ very well, especially in pre-election times. Likewise, no money for the destruction of our identity, ladies and gentlemen. This morning, at 3 p.m., we discussed the re-densification of the German anthem. For example, €700 000 was worth our Minister of Culture. Instead, all that matters to us, that is, our identity, should be preserved and strengthened. The National History Museum, for example, the largest in Europe, must not crumble. This must not happen. The preservation of our large cultural institutions, our art universities, our music schools, museums, theatres, opera houses, monument protection, our libraries, traditional holiday weeks is our duty, for this one must have money, for that money must be provided. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The preservation of these large cultural institutions can guarantee the cohesion and stability of a society, and that is why it is so important to us. We must set priorities. The preservation of our identity is the subject of conscience of the epoch.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11075	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11097	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mrs Ewing's comments. We've got to get out of here. If we're already with culture, at least a few words for the record. The Minister for Culture is always talking about her being Garantin for constant budgets. In fact, we have a constant budget again, and this “return” actually means a decline of course. I think we've had constant budgets for ten years. What does that mean? – This means that the federal museums, Theater et cetera, continue to be maintained, that they are being renovated, that they are adapted to inflation, that they are very good, but at the same time – constant budgets! – the money has to come from somewhere. Who looks like these increases? – This is what the medium-sized companies do, and above all, they do the little ones and the little ones. We are dealing with growing poverty in culture. In the meantime, however, one can no longer speak of a growing but definitely of poverty. Whoever looks somewhere in the federal states into small cultural initiatives will see that the situation there is more than tragic. Not only the precariate, but also employees in Oberwart get 900 € for a full day job, gross, and that is not an exception, but now the rule. This means, for example, constant budgets also result in additional facilities such as the 21st house at Belvedere suddenly receiving 2 million extra. Of course, these 2 million are missing elsewhere – I have just mentioned where – and in addition, these new institutions need to be financed in the future, because the Federal Minister – perhaps rightly, I do not know – has said that it is her first concern that the national cultural institutions are financed. That is to say, it is setting up new institutions, financing them for the next 300 years, because federal property has to be financed. The money is missing elsewhere. This is the opposite of diversity, which is a centralism that may serve an elitist high culture, but not what we imagine under culture. That's why we hope there's sometime a rethinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11142	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11163	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! 10.5 million € – with this budget the framework for Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has remained constant – do not allow much room for manoeuvre. This money mainly serves intervention agencies, such as the intervention agencies against violence, the bodies to which women can contact when they need assistance. It is good and right that there are these institutions and that these institutions are supported, but we should perhaps also consider whether we want to afford a women's ministry, which consists mainly of association funding and spending the money on advertisements. 10 percent of the total budget is intended for ads and campaigns. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Women's policy should address women's needs, and this should be broad-ranging. Let's see what's happened in the last three years, what you're selling as a success: Introduction of the women's ratio to supervisory councils. – How many women do this concern? Maybe 200, 300. Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, – What is the result? What does the single woman have about it? The revision of this law is a source of envy and disfavor and does not bring a woman a cent anymore. Most recently, the much-acquired salary calculator. – It costs about €300 000 to €400 000 in implementation, and what does it bring? Relatively little! He does not even calculate correctly how we could find out, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are not successes you have to show. These successes do not close the pay shears, nor do they bring women, single women. They don't bring anything. The real problems are not addressed. The care area is a very large, a very important and forward-looking one. I repeat this time and again because it is really very important, and I repeat it above all in connection with women's problems, because care is female, ladies and gentlemen. We have 420 000 care providers in Austria, 350 000 of them are cared for at home, mostly by women. 80 percent of women care for at home Caregivers at their own expense, on their own account and get little to nothing for it. The staff in the care facilities are 90 percent women, my dear ladies and gentlemen. They have double and triple loads: Job, care and children, earn little money. What's the result? – Burn-out, mental disorders. According to WKO, mental diseases cost us €7 billion in 2010; 7 billion € economic damage due to mental illness, ladies and gentlemen. That should give you some thought! I don't have any solutions. There are no suitable solutions. The minimum wage, for example, is not implemented; Her minister always asked him himself. 1 300 € gross, genuine 1 000 € net, that would be an immediate measure so that women can really be better put, better deserved and can also take their lives more self-determined, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to give an example of the fact that the relationship is not right. There's no money for a burn-out study. It means again and again: We don't have any money, it doesn't matter, we have to save, et cetera. Saving is good and right, but if I think in return that in 2010 €706 398 were spent for campaigns, for ads that don't bring anything, just that the photo of the woman minister is pictured in the newspaper, then, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that is clearly too little. In this respect, you should reconsider your policy in the sense of Austrian women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11237	The next speaker was Mr Schopf. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11258	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few points on the employment chapter, particularly on youth employment. Very negatively moved me was the very emotional arson of Mr Themessl, who meant that it is actually a disaster that it is insane if up to 50,000 young people are able to learn a teaching profession in over-company teaching workshops, in over-company training facilities. [[Abg. Themessl:... would have cost less and brought more!]] Mr Themessl, let us be glad that it is not 45 000 or 50,000 young people – the Minister has said it is up to 10,000 – and let us be glad that in this Republic these young people get a chance and where the economy has ultimately not provided suitable apprenticeships, where the economy has unfortunately not been able and is able to provide a corresponding number of apprenticeships, the Republic of Austria has come in and the Republic of Austria provides such training measures. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart:... Blum-Bonus!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Federal Government as a whole, but especially the Minister responsible, Mr Hundstorfer, very much, very much for this solution. In the end, that is why we are indeed in the forefront of unemployment in the youth sector. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Promote the companies!]] It is 7.9 percent across Austria, and in Europe we have one of an average of 20 percent. We currently have, and I have... – colleague, I have now looked very specifically at the figures of my own federal state. [[Calls and counter-calls between Members of Parliament Ing. Hoebart and Mag. Honey.]] We currently have a little over 1,400 young people currently looking for an apprenticeship, and it is very pleasing when the competent minister says that he will also try to get these 1,400 young people to have a corresponding training place. Thank you again! It is important for money to be taken into control. There are, of course, other proposals. There are proposals that we must certainly discuss in the future. A proposal, something the Austrian trade union youth is demanding for years, is a training fund. [[Abg. Ing. Hoebart: Yes, where is it?]] In Vorarlberg, this fund is already phase-by-phase reality. [[Abg. Ing. Hi, phase by step!]] It would be important for the whole Republic to have a training fund where, in the end, a burden compensation is made between those establishments which train apprentices well, and those employers and firms that do not provide training. [[Abg. Head: Voluntary!]] This fund must be set up in this area. I think this is an important and correct approach, and I hope that we will soon come to a solution in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11367	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11388	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This first budget by Mrs Fekter is one that can be described as a solid budget. And this is probably the most valuable thing that can be said to people from this speaker's mouth in today's times: that Austria has a position in international comparison, from which we can only hope that we can maintain it, namely that we are heading in the right direction in the consolidation path. [[Abg. Booker: Yes, hope and pray!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: And believe!]] Of course, the massive collapses due to the crisis have led to enormous re-indebtedness, but we are reducing this high debt at the right pace, but not to an extent that we cannot take offensive measures. This is of vital importance, because of course it is right to say again and again that interest rates will devour the future, and that is why it is so important to continue this consolidation course consistently. What I would like – and I say that as a representative of one of the government parties – is that there is even more courage and that we are even more ambitious. We are not “resters of dirt”, ladies and gentlemen, for example, when we address the Federal Railways here. However, I like the word “Nest” in connection with the Bundesbahnen, because many have already set up a very nice nest in which they naturally feel comfortable – and this, of course, causes additional costs in billions of heights in a legislative period, colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger]] Such a pension scheme for tens of thousands like the ÖBB has no second professional group in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] There's no second time, colleague. I very much explain it to you: This is deeply unfair in the system, because the colleagues at the ÖBB, whom I meet at night when I am on the train, or who are in a shift – in order to say that quite clearly – have a worse solution at the pension than those who have a warm nest and sit in the administration. [[Abg. Brosz: Do you know who has a better pension system? What about the old political system? The politicians' pensions, the old ones!]] Mr Brosz, in a coalition one must not always be the opinion of the coalition partner. I would like to advertise here that we need to act, that we are required to come up with solutions together. [[Abg. Brosz: At the politicians' pensions?]] We are also called upon to take a step further with the federal states. Tomorrow, the head of government will sit with the heads of state. Of course, there are also special regulations in the pension system to date – when I think of the Federal Capital of Vienna, even though I think of my capital city, Graz. We are called on to terminate these special pension rights so as not to have to intervene at the end of the day in the pension system, which actually hurts very much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] Therefore: First, change the special arrangements before getting into such a misguided situation that you have to do something in the pension system. [[Abg. Bucher: Right!]] I could call it a lot of other areas. [[New call of the abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] So I say the following: The budget is a good budget. However, what is necessary on the expenditure side is to use the remaining time during this legislative period in order to actually achieve necessary reforms.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11518	Next speaker: Mr Linder. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11540	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! We hear it again and again today: The budget is a budget of security, a budget of stability, a budget of the secure future. Also the Federal President Fritz Grillitsch, he has now fled, has a lot of praise for the budget left. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] A press release yesterday can be found as follows: “I read from today’s budget package the expression of economy, stability and future security for performance providers in this country. (...) Agriculture continued to contribute to fiscal consolidation in 2012’, underlined Grillitsch.” [[Call the ÖVP: Please vote too!]] How does this budget look like stability and the secure future? – Staff costs in the Ministry of Agriculture increase from €75 million to €80 million, by 7 percent, thus ensuring stability and security in the Ministry of Agriculture. On the budget of teaching and testing institutions – a very important area; although we lose an average of 4,200 agricultural holdings each year, training is important, but the budget is questionable: The budget increases from 67.2 to 81.5 million, that is, by plus 21.4 percent. So there is stability and security. With the agricultural market Austria the budget increases from 28.8 to 29.3 million, i.e. 1.7 percent. There is also stability and the secure future for the agricultural market in Austria. But let us look at rural development, ladies and gentlemen, the budget falls from 51.7 million to 16.6 million, minus 35 million or minus 68 percent. And that's where I ask: Where are the security and stability for rural areas and, last but not least, for agriculture? I believe, ladies and gentlemen and, above all, dear friends of the Federal Farmers' Association, if we want to maintain the rural area, if we want to continue to have agriculture to a corresponding extent, we should not be satisfied with lip confessions, but then it is necessary that we form structures and ensure that the money goes where it belongs: in rural areas and in agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11582	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11604	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a preliminary remark, which I have been repeating on the spot for a few years now: This kind of budget debate is pointless. It is very nice, Mrs Federal Minister, that you sit here, but it makes no sense at all if I now give you what would actually be intended for the Minister for Social Affairs or for the Minister for Finance. I think that this kind of procedure – but in here one can obviously say what you want for years now, and there are also colleagues in the other parties who criticise this and are right to be bad – is superfluous. In the form you don't need it and so it doesn't make sense. [[It is in favour of Greens and BZÖ as well as SPÖ and ÖVP representatives.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice pass.]] If we do not start to take ourselves seriously, then Parliamentaryism in Austria will not be a good thing. – I am now saying this in conclusion on the point, because I would like to say something on the subject as well. Mrs Bundesminister, you have also expressed your views on the subject, rather cautiously with regard to pensions, but in Mrs Fekter's budget speech, this was a point that she stressed, so easily with the pointing finger. And I'd like to point out one thing: We probably would not have some of the problems in the pension system or in pension systems if there had not been early retirement waves in recent years, especially in the public service and in related areas such as Telekom, Post and so on, where people would have been sent to the pension on a large scale against their will by 30, 40, 50, and from 50 onwards. The public hand has in this way the most expensive way to make public-hand, Telekom, the post office, the ÖBB stock exchanges – for that was the stated goal: If we throw out the officials, then the operation will be made ready for stock exchange! – billions of people are sluggish. And you all know that very well, because we've been discussing this in here a lot of times. And no one says anything to that. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: You! You're right now!]] The second point is public service, once again mentioned: They have decided to extend the long-term insurance scheme with the votes of the government parties which continue to favour the public service towards everyone and everyone in the private sector. It is not possible to retire with this scheme, as it applies in the public service, and above all with these pensions in the private sector. Look Mr Bartenstein – you have a flaw for numbers, I know: €9 billion is spent on pensions in the civil service system, and about €9 billion is the federal grant for all other pension systems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] In the official pension systems we have 200,000 people, and in the other pension systems we have 2 million people – 2 million people! [[Abg. Wöger: Service provider's contribution!]] Then also look at the differences within the social security systems for ASVG, GSVG, BSVG! They will find that the people of the ASVG, that is, the normal self-employed workers, have the lowest subsidies, and that, in part, with their help, Mr. Collegue, I cannot say otherwise, for self-employed and farmers, there are still additional State grants that could be managed much better and cleaner differently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Silhavy.]] For you cannot agree, Mr Bartenstein, that it makes sense to treat someone who is self-employed and has a high income equal to someone who is self-employed and has a very low income. And that's exactly the point: They have decided on a scheme in which the federal subsidy for the low-income self-employed is the same as for those with high incomes, thus benefiting those with high self-employed incomes. You should think about this before you just wave around again with the numbers, the actual retirement age and the like!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11687	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11708	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! This budget is nothing but the standstill and the government's refusal to realize reality is written on a sheet that the Federal Minister, as you can read, has read down badly. Instead of creating a framework for a growth that is being invested, this budget is a single game of heartlessness, where nothing other than what you have done in recent years is done, nothing. Let us take a brief look at this agricultural budget: There is a professional group working 365 days a year for all of us, and this professional group gets €23 million less. And then there are farmers' chamber presidents who do not protest, who do not scream; then there is a Fritz Grillitsch, who is celebrating the Minister of Finance for this budget. But what is reality in this budget? – Any reform will be refused. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The AMA, which, as an Austrian Marketing Agency, has the task of advertising Austrian products, is being encouraged again and is getting more money to control more and more strongly, instead of fulfilling its core activities, namely to actually operate marketing. And if you continue reading the budget, you will find the following: The President's Conference, of which we have two presidents sitting here – please, you must let all of this break on your tongue! – this year, it will receive a 60-fold increase in its funding, from € 10 000 to € 600 000. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A madness!]] Mr Berlakovich is not here, but I hope he will be able to answer what is happening. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] And what else did Mr Berlakovich do? – The farmers, the people who should invest, who really need the funds that work for us, who, as you can see, are punished each year with a farmer's death, with a thousand times the loss of existence of you, will be reduced again. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] And what is the Minister doing? – He goes here, and the budgets of the whole of the preparatory organizations, whether they be associations, or cooperatives, will be increased by millions. The farmers will not accept this for a long time. Someday they will chase you out for your celebration of this budget with a wet slut. I can predict that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But what has Mr Berlakovich actually implemented from the 2008 government programme? – I can tell you nothing at all, because the future of the common agricultural policy is a single game of mourning. The Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Agriculture have completely failed to do so. There were great promises that rural development will not be shortened – and it will be greatly shortened! That's where we're most disrupting the economy. Yes, how should economic growth come about? You refuse any reform! Today you still send President Donabauer with the chauffeur on the way, but refuses any reform and prevents any farmer from making an investment – and money can only come into the budget by investing. But let's go on: This budget is anything but modern by making a farmer an entrepreneur by once going here and having social insurance paid by income. No, nothing! It will all be refused, it is a real bird-strout policy: the head in the ground and what is happening, the Mrs Fekter will be celebrated. If you think that's the right way to get out of the crisis, then you're on the wood road, because one thing is clear: With the purchasing power of the farmers, the economy is constantly downhill. You have a lot to do with it. And instead of using you here for your profession, you are celebrating a federal government that cannot be surpassed by inactionlessness and courage. It's just unbeatable! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this budget, let us continue to look at development cooperation: This is where Mrs Finanzminister makes €5 million available to East Africa. If you ask the committee which country this gets, she doesn't know. Nor does the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs know. If you ask which NGOs get the money, no one knows. There the money is powdered out without ending, and where it is really needed, there we have none. Stop this policy at last, otherwise you will look more than sad at the next election! And you'll see, the farmers won't let this ÖVP please you any longer.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11783	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 1 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:01]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues to the Federal Chancellor concerning: Veto now, Federal Chancellor! (9526/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e11813	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 9526/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e12078	I declare Mr Klubobmann Deputies Bucher as the first questioner to justify the urgent question in accordance with § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e12106	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! An important meeting will take place next weekend. ==References== The EU's Heads of State and Government meet in Brussels on an extraordinary event, which will deal with a lot of money. To say it in the words of the SPÖ financial speaker: “Hammer comes to us!” Mr Krainer of SPÖ announced this last weekend in the “Kurier”. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where is the crane?]] So if you translate this, Austria will no longer be able to make the only claim in the German anthem to be the country of hammers, but the whole European Union will become the country of hammers, ladies and gentlemen, for we have heard and said this a few times by the European Commission. [[OBJECTIVES]] But the issue was actually that Mr. Krainer is in possession of a paper – actually a “non-paper” – but it is a paper – and in this paper there are some brilliant things that are to be negotiated on the next weekend. Mr Krainer spoke of a “big-bang summit”, that is, in the language culture of Mrs Finanzminister, a “big-bang summit” that will take place there. [[Call at BZÖ: Where is he today?]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Is that something unpleasant?]] It is planned, ladies and gentlemen, that soon the rescue shield, which has already been agreed, has already been decided to lift up again, continue to stretch and, above all, blow up via a lever effect correctly: from € 440 billion to over € 2 trillion. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: This is a hammer!]] Yes, your face will fall asleep when you hear that! 2 trillion € will be moved in the future. I can already imagine that a few rumours can be felt in the SPÖ sector. 2 trillion €, that's probably not going to be enough either. 2 trillion € will not be enough to get hold of the problems that it is about in the future. I would not have thought that Mr. Krainer would ever become an ally of the BZÖ. I really wouldn't have hoped for that. But in this case it is so that he once looked more closely what is in this paper. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the realization that what was begun was already the wrong path. That is why our request to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany today is to end this insanity at once and to end these billions of arrests and promises with which you are travelling to Brussels. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] What exactly is to happen here? . We have done these urgent things today to question the Chancellor in a verbal manner whether he actually knows what is happening in the future, whether he is in the picture of what step and what action he is taking. We want to point out that what is to be decided on the weekend is something that Austria will not at all benefit from, of which taxpayers will have no benefit at all despite liability and despite their income in the form of taxes. We want to know whether the Federal Chancellor is also in the picture of this, and we will then have a special meeting after the weekend summit, where we will again be questioning what was actually decided on the weekend. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then we have the direct alignment: What did you know before and what has become smarter afterwards? It is crucial that a Bad Bank has been installed through this EFSF, via this lifeguard, – and exactly the same thing that we held in the analysis before, the same thing that we discussed with you from SPÖ and ÖVP in the Financial Committee, also with Mrs Finanzminister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I spoke of a Bad Bank, and the Minister for Finance said to me: No, that's not Bad Bank, it's a rescue fund, Luxembourg-British law, but that's not a bank that's operatingly confronted with a bank business, so to speak! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] Today, in the run-up to the weekend meeting, we know that this lifeguard, this bank that is being formed there, does nothing but buy up government bonds from threatened pleite countries and deposit them to the European Central Bank. For this, she receives loans, and with these loans, government bonds are purchased again. – Nothing else does this Bad Bank! That is to say, this EFSF is a Bad Bank owned by Austrian taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. We have analysed this from the very beginning. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In addition, she's a bad bank without control. You know very well, Federal Chancellor, that our President of the Court of Auditors has repeatedly examined the Federal Government and has instructed it not to create a construction that is uncontrollable, where three people will decide in the future, what happens to these government bonds, which may be bought up and where the Austrian taxpayers' money flows. We have no idea of all these actions being carried out there. We have no control rights. There is no legal handling at all for this bank, which is being constructed there, for all these billions of € that are being moved there. Yes, do you want to allow this to happen seriously, Mr. Federal Chancellor, at the expense of the Austrians, the taxpayer here in the country, without having the certainty and guarantee of what should happen to these many billions of €, with these trillions in the future?! - Yes, you can't do that. Be serious, Federal Chancellor! Finally, stop and finally hold your hand up when it comes to taking a veto against these decisions! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This would be a courageous step to be taken seriously and above all a responsible step. We have discussed this in the Financial Committee, as reported. And there the colleague Van der Bellen asked, because of my speech, whether it is actually the case that a Bad Bank is installed, and today we have the certainty and the confirmation. The euro zone does nothing but what red and black speakers here at the speaker's desk always blame the banks and speculators on this step. You do nothing else in your words. They say, the evil banks, the evil speculators! And what is the European Union doing now? . The Commission is going here and making a Bad Bank that takes exactly the same pattern as we have seen with the banks and speculators in recent years. You don't do anything else! Yeah, you know what else you're putting out with it? – A free letter for these banks and speculators so that they will be freed in the future for all that they have done to damage within Austria, in Europe and probably around the world. [[BZÖ and Abg. May. Stefan.]] This is actually the disaster, because with this step you are taking here, you are acquitting all of them of their guilt! And this devil's work, this devil's work, EFSF, is thought of by the bankers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Yes, a politician can't think of that, who has a bit of propriety and character and a little sense of responsibility to the voters and to the taxpayers. This can only come from the brains of many bankers, ladies and gentlemen. This is already proof that the politicians at European level are constantly being directed by the bankers and that we – also the Federal Government, first and foremost – are going to glue these bankers. That is the real reason why taxpayers will be bleeding for it in the future. Goldman Sachs has calculated what this will cost in the future and has come to a sum – just for the banks alone – of €298 billion. In other words, the bank's financing needs will make up almost €300 billion within Europe – €300 billion! Mr Bundeskanzler, I believe that once again you – hopefully – have matured in understanding that this is a bank rescue package and that it is primarily about saving the banks – that it is not about the countries, but about the banks. We finally want to learn from you whether you own all this information, whether you know what's going on. That is why we have compiled an extensive catalogue of questions, because in your words, and that makes me so thoughtful, you always hear: [[Call the SPÖ: Thoughtful!]] Yes, it is a matter of increasing the involvement of banks. You always say to the outside, you want to take the banks closer to the kandare. In fact, it's the other way round! The banks take the policy to the kandare. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, and this is what is going on in the course of this increase. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This insight, and this is the distressing one, has now lasted for 4 months. Since July we know that this rescue shield is to be formed in the order of € 440 million. At the time, they celebrated that the banks also participated by 20 percent. Are you finally so mature in the view and in the knowledge that you have been pulled over the table by the banks that it is now the banks that get the money from the taxpayer? I hope you have now also seen this and know that the banks are the beneficiaries of this inflatation of the rescue shield at over €2 trillion. Now the taxpayer is financing 100 percent of the entire disaster, the whole mess. The banks get away completely unscathed. With this measure you make on the weekend, the banks will get away completely unpunished. They will not have to participate in the financing of Greece or other European Pleitee countries. And that, although the International Monetary Fund is already on the brake, says: Yes, mistakes have happened; we will not come around to make a change. In the example of Greece, the IMF has already recognized that this pleite cannot be handled in this way and doubts the Troika report – wherever you have to ask yourself: Now they are sitting in the troika with the European Commission and also with the European Central Bank, and are still doubting everything?- Oh, my God! But basically, one has already gained the insight that all these relief measures, which are being constructed there, are not grasping, and that this is a barrel without soil, where you are constantly pouring billions into it and no effect is achieved with it. Mr Bundeskanzler, therefore, there are our proposals which we have already presented to you several times. But please take a proposal seriously – this one has been expressed by Mr Krainer on the weekend and you have also sent it in the form of a letter to an Austrian newspaper: Let the people decide! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The people have a very sound home mind. The people know what it wants. The people, I believe, have a very good understanding on this fundamental question beyond the future of our country and beyond the next generations, and you can rely on it and rely on the Austrian people to make the right decision in a referendum, which you can then represent at European level with good conscience! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is no doubt that at European level we now need a rethinking period. It cannot go on this way: the constant summit, the constant focus of France and Germany on what measures we have to take. This is also a circumstance that you have to think about. You will simply be invited to a summit, and you will have to raise your hand there without probably getting involved in all these considerations in advance – which, of course, also concern Austria, because we have to make a very big contribution, in relation to our economy. This dictatorship, which is based on Germany and France, will no longer be applicable to the individual European Member States in the future. Merkel and Sarkozy, both of them decide what to do. You're not in the boat anymore. [[Call BZÖ:Statists!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Handlifter and Ja-Sager!]] You're just a little girl in the voting machine. Yes, at European level, you will be asked what opinion do you have? Mr Bundeskanzler, will you ever be involved in advance, and to whom will this be left as far as the Austrian positions are concerned? Are you asking? Are officials in charge? Or who is to be asked if the only topic is the survival of France? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, why is there this urgency that this has to go over the stage on the weekend? – Yes, the urgency is there because France is otherwise stunned in credit quality. That's the urgency, that's what it's all about! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of protecting France from a great deal of damage. That is the only reason, and I wonder – with all the seriousness and honesty: Yes, do you own all of this information, as the manager, the head manager of this federal government? Do you know all that is going on at European level? They also know that government members of other countries are already thinking about whether this is the right way. Schäuble has the greatest effort in Germany to make this clear to his colleagues. The CDU is no longer so credulous as to these lifeguards, but criticises the vehement that there is never an end in sight. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is the truth: Also with these 2 – 2,5 trillion € you have said, Mr. Krainer – with these 2.5 trillion € the end of the flag rod has not yet been reached. You can see where it is powerful throughout Europe, not only in the banking system, but also in the countries of southern Europe – I do not want to list all of them now. There is no end in sight at all corners and ends, and the need for funding increases from time to time. That is why it is not clear, Federal Chancellor, that two Heads of State and Government should decide what to do to everyone else! It's unacceptable! A democracy at European level is not to be maintained. This has nothing to do with democracy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you are a Social-Democrat, you are a Social-Democrat, then ask once a weekend in Brussels where democracy has remained within Europe if only two Heads of Government have to meet to decide what the rest of Europe and, above all, the taxpayers have to pay for and what they have to bear! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yes, Austria is already in the middle of the mud. That's the pathetic part. With the first unthinked steps, you have already maneuvered into the Morast so far that you can't probably get out of there now. This reminds a little of Goethe's magic instructor: The ghosts they called! You won't get out of there without harm. There is, therefore, only the possibility that we have been preferring for some time, namely the withdrawal of Greece. And that is and must be the plan of the European Union. Greece must, out of itself, and we cannot get out of the European Union, because Greece must recognise that the whole of the European Union is suffering. It won't go without a debt release. It is not possible to let Greece go into a future with this high debt. You'll probably have to pay 60 percent of the debt. That's what it's going to do. But say From the very beginning, what you're planning! Just tell me what it's all about, and don't always throw that piece by piece to the people, to the public any information about eating before sometime, in the next two, three years, the whole truth comes to the public! Tell us today what a plan you have in relation to the health of Greece and how it will continue within the European Union in the future! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It can't be that the Austrian taxpayer has to get into the bag constantly. 28 billion € Payment obligations are not Lappalie. This is a batch of money, which is almost half of the budget that is to be decided here in a few days or weeks – € 28 billion, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore: Before the Austrian credit quality is downgraded, which is also threatening in view of this budgetary development, Mr. Bundeskanzler, pull the line on the weekend! Pull the line and say in Brussels that Austria is no longer ready to pay billions in the future and assume liability! This is our appeal to you for the weekend. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I do not know what European contacts you have, but say goodbye to the idea of the socialist central state which will rule from Brussels from Austria! This also does nothing for your socialist thoughts, if you look at Greece now, where the social partners have been abolished. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is better to put in a veto now, ladies and gentlemen, so that the children and grandchildren in Austria have another chance.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e12347	To answer the urgent question, Mr Faymann spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e12368	Madam President. Members on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say: If one analyses that banks and financial markets are regulated and that one wants to have more rules and control, then we agree, but on the other hand, that does not say anything about the banks, as they are organized today, being system-related banks who, if they are in difficulty, can do much more to produce consequences, to negative consequences than the other private enterprises. [[Abg. May. Stadler: They're coming like this!]] Indeed, it would not be a matter of constantly discussing any rescue packages in our country if it were not, as is clearly defined by the Austrian National Bank and by all experts, system-related banks. There is also the reason why you have already agreed to a “teufelswerk” – in your “teufelswerk” section – namely the bank package in Austria. [[Abg. Bucher: That was something else!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: That was the EFSF! You can't compare that!]] I would not assume that you were there in the hostage of a bank, but that you only realized, just as it is at European level, that banks, even if they do not support it and want to regulate it differently in the future, are just system-relevant for a country. And if one lets them go bankrupt, and possibly inconceivable, then the direct impact on the economy, on businesses, on jobs and on growth in a country. To take up mass unemployment, just because you're making something unthinkable, I don't think that's what you're going to do, and I don't think that's what you're going to do. Therefore, these ideas are, one no longer does, and one line, when you know that these are system-related facilities, is too short. That's why you need regulations, shields, because you've recognized this cause. This is also due to your contributions, which have a certain recurring character in the analysis. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because the situation does not change!]] – “Because the situation doesn’t change! ” – This seems to me like a doctor who has a diagnosis, an X-ray image and says to the patient: Well, there's some thing out of this could be horrible! Then he puts it back away, goes home, comes back next time, says it again and goes home again. [[Abg. Scheibner: Wrong therapy!]] But you know: What we need is a doctor who says: That is what we now have to do together! – This is the task of the European Union! And there is the accusation that it often goes far too slowly and that in the preparations we often achieve far too little speed in the decisions too, a legitimate criticism. My criticism is not whether Germany and France have made a proposal – they have not made an hourly proposal. [[Abg. Booker: Do you have the paper?]] – I would then like to say something to the non-paper in the answer to the question. – You didn’t make a proposal at all at the hour. I would rather, if Germany or France and someone else or we were together, if there were already five proposals that would be so seriously disputable that I could inform you in detail. [[Abg. Booker: Do you drive without any suggestions?]] Inverted: The European Council's preparatory processes, where everyone in his country, taking into account internal policy discussions, has a lot to talk about and discuss, mean that we do not have a complete paper with a proposal just before an ECOFIN and then before the European Council. These processes, which are designed in advance in the respective parliaments, often result from internal policy, sometimes out of very transparent, superficial interest, that we do not even have that, where you say that Germany, France already had something and that would go through. [[Abg. Scheibner: So no line!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Make a suggestion!]] I would not mind if such a proposal were already on the table and I could already distribute it to you, because then one could be, against it, fight for it, fight against it, fight for something additional, but there is no such thing. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Consider yourself!]] – So we are in the matter of self-concealing, but not in the criticism whether others have already presented something too quickly. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: What proposal does Austria make?]] That is why what you have said about the shield is that it does not help banks to see it that way. Well, the bank package, which all the parties have decided here, has also helped the banks, but it has not helped the banks as a self-interest because we have now become a fan club of banks, but because we have acted in the interests of Austrian taxpayers and in the interests of the Austrian economy, entrepreneurs and employees, or have decided not to simply look away, turn around and say: It's a shame that it happened!, but with participation capital – I can remind you of your own decisions here in the house: 15 billion €, 85 billion € in liability – to also assume responsibility. The same is true of the European Union. The European Union and the eurozone do not do this voluntarily either. At the European Council on Sunday, we knew much better to discuss and could discuss very other important issues of our joint cooperation and competitiveness. We also know much better than to talk about how we are trying to deal with rescue shields here, just as we have done in our own country, to avoid major damage. I am already at the answer to the question. Since you asked me 31 questions, I ask for forgiveness if I gather a little bit. This should not be disrespectful, but that is precisely the case with 31 questions and the time limits. First of all, as regards questions 1, 3, 27 and 29, which deal with Greece, I would speak of “good business”: I've never talked about good business before! [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Mrs Finanzminister!]] I would never overlook the fact that, if a country did not get any more money at acceptable interest rates on the market and that the Community would jump in bilaterally or jointly, no matter how high interest rates, it would have been a risk, because if it had not been necessary, the country would not have needed us. So “good business” can be calculated together afterwards, but I would never... – No, but you assume that the Greek package... [[Abg. Bucher: Did we say that?]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Do not apply!]] – I never said it was a good business. [[Abg. Bucher: Mrs. Fekter said that!]] On the contrary! Because it was not eligible for funding in the private market, it had to be stepped in. And at the hour one cannot say how much the shield of the liability and all that he has taken over, at the end, once one has calculated together, and how much, vice versa, one has turned away from damage. It's too early to calculate this serious. There you have to be bright - eyed to predict certain processes. Of course, if you want to, you can calculate everything together and calculate it badly and count apocalyptic. There is always the possibility to do this in a political debate, but, of course, it is far too early for a serious bill. But that the “good business” is, I would never claim. The stabilisation of Greece and its consequences for the euro area have been discussed several times. Again in these hours, yesterday there was a heated discussion among the national banks in the European Central Bank: What, for example, does debt reduction mean with the risk of insolvency? Does it not also mean that as a state community we will then return to the capitalization of banks, reconstruction aid for Greece and again in additional services? Is this really a so to speak involuntary risk, namely that one cannot find a solution together, where there is also a voluntary nature of the private? – They can only be made voluntary, otherwise it is an insolvency. Is it not the voluntary way to prefer to those other negative consequences that the word “cutting of guilt ” so falsely suggests? The expression “debt cutting” suggests a little cut and off and off, then the sun shines. But the truth is that this debt ratio does not begin with a rise, but with new questions, such as the capitalization of banks in Greece, the reconstruction aid et cetera. And then we all feel incompetent or we all say: That's none of our business now, because we've already made a cut!Unknown term type: "%s".? That is, to take these consequences seriously into account, at the hour in the financial experts' world, as well as in the political world of responsibility, leads to a somewhat more differentiated debate than the one on the question: Cut: yes or no?, namely to a debate also on the question: With what consequences? And so it has not yet been completed. The Troika has provided a report and recommended paying the next tranche of €8 billion to Greece. There is. You can now be positive or negative. There are different voices, including from the troika. [[Abg. Bucher: Two to one!]] But she was there, looked at it, checked it, and said: This tranche must be released! – That’s a decision! But the decision whether it should not succeed to achieve voluntary relinquishment and thereby a voluntary participation of private individuals rather than the risk of insolvency is not disputed at Weitem, because it is not so in black and white, but in many grey tones and therefore also with other consequences to be discussed. So Greece's aid is also in the common interest of the Eurozone, because of course that which applies to Greece should also apply to other countries. This will not be as easy as some suggest and think: With Greece you give everything, and then everything is done!, but of course you will have to consider what you choose for Greece in the process – perhaps not in every detail, but in the main line – then whether you have the power as a euro zone to use it in other countries. Therefore, one cannot be as generous as some recommend and say: What is Greece?, Zack, do it!, but you have to face up to the political discussion: Would you also have the opportunity to ensure the same help, the same measures for other countries that might also come in similar situations? That is why this Greece aid or the question of how we can make exports is important. This does not only apply to Germany, because not only Germany is a large export nation, Austria is also very interested in the fact that to Italy, but for us, of course, especially to Germany, to France, to other countries, also to Southern Europe export works. Of course, we are even more affected by the development of Eastern European countries, but that this trade, which works in stability, is also in our own interest. That is why we must not abstain from people, because otherwise someone could really have the view that we do not need these Eurozone partners at all, we could do everything alone by doing our homework in our own country and best done with our own currency, a little bit with the background: Let's do it like Switzerland! Only: Austria has a completely different history, namely through the accession of the EU, which is known to have been made by a referendum. And by joining the eurozone, Austria has a completely different historical development and also a different political situation from that of Switzerland. While Switzerland is fighting with a currency that makes it very much possible for it to do in export, and it is trying to put all the measures in place not to make the francs rise too much so that their industry can act at all, we are in a situation such as to be a special ball of play in Europe if we were to go out on our own as a country that has built up its prosperity over exports. [[Abg. Bucher: Who says that? – I never said that!]] You always say you never said that because you always stop talking again after the analysis and the possible terrible consequences, go back and read the diagnosis again the next time, again with lots of apocalyptic and negative predictions. [[Abg. Bucher: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That's why you've never said it before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But would you take the floor for 10 minutes and then say what it means if we vote against all of this and therefore are no longer in your own country if we say: [[Abg. Bucher: Moved summits! APA!]] There's no point in it, we're not in any more, we're not in any more, we don't think it's all a path, the wrong path! Then, of course, the logical consequence would be that we're going out because we didn't find a second in the European Union, in the euro area, which would also think he'd like to start a common currency with us. [[Abg. Bucher: There are several!]] Which means: Find one!Unknown term type: "%s".? I would ask you to talk 5 minutes longer and explain how you intend to convince Germany that they are going out of the euro area as an export nation, which is particularly dependent on the fact that the trading and economic conditions in Europe are in agreement with their automotive industry and many other areas, where we are primarily suppliers, that they can particularly analyse precisely why they are in the euro zone and why they have to afford the rescue shield – do not want to; They observe the internal discussions there – why they stay inside. I would ask you to give the floor for another 5 minutes as to how you will convince Germany of this idea of a common currency proposed by the BZÖ. [[Abg. Bucher: Colle Stadler will do this! We'll explain this to you!]] Therefore, I ask you to take this into account in the discussion and also to acknowledge that your criticism is a matter of analysis and diagnosis. But I have the responsibility to consider further these another 10 or 5 minutes, which I have proposed to you, and then include myself in measures to avoid greater damage. That is why I would like to answer these questions 1, 3, 27 and 29. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They know that the finance ministers are trying to make proposals at their level. This also applies to the question which has come several times: Whether to increase the screen size. For example, you have called the responsible Finance Minister Schäuble from Germany, who, of course, cannot be overlooked, has voted for an increase in the framework. I have not yet heard of you so clearly that you would like an increase, but you have just given him a positive example. [[Abg. Bucher: Not positive!]] - Negative, I understand. I thought you brought him as an example. [[Abg. May. Stadler: As a witness!]] In other words, there is a need for advice at the level of the finance ministers: Is the existing framework sufficient? Should lever effects be created? Is that legal? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Protests of the charges! Scäuble!]] I had a discussion with legal experts just a few hours ago, who said that it was not acceptable in this form at all at this time. It is therefore currently being examined at expert level whether this is technically possible through these insurance solutions – you know the publicly discussed proposals for this. Therefore, the finance ministers will have to discuss at their level the issue of the usefulness of the shield, including with regard to the capitalisation of banks. Hiezu, the ECB and the relevant areas have said that the capitalisation of banks should be strengthened. And now, of course, at the expert level and also with the finance ministers, a proposal is first developed whether we should separate – this is always our proposal that we are bringing in – between credit business and financial products such as investment. [[Abg. Booker: Yes, right!]] And one should also assess differently which percentage of own resources is therefore necessary in order to disburse these transactions. That's our proposal. [[Abg. Bucher: I've never heard of that before! That was the first time!]] But please, this is a good opportunity. Your urgents give me the opportunity to speak this up openly. [[Abg. Bucher: Good thing we do this, these urgent ones!]] I think that is an essential question, because there must be a better capitalization of the banks, on which we agree. The question is whether to deal with them at the same time or whether, because they also engage in uneven activities and take uneven risks, they also have to be assessed unevenly in this area in the interest of Austria, which is very likely to have banks that are not as strongly engaged in this investment business as Deutsche Bank or others. So that's one of these important points. But now I have to answer your questions, otherwise I won't get through in time, otherwise it will be ringed here. Questions 4 to 8: This so-called non-paper is an informal collection of ideas and, of course, no decision – you know that – has been made in the context of the Economic and Financial Committee and has been prepared as a part of ideas for the ECOFIN Council. On questions 9 and 26: For the leverage effect and expansion of liability, I have tried to refer briefly. €440 billion in loans were granted. The Austrian guarantee, as you have rightly said, concerns € 21.6 billion. The expansion of liability is not currently planned, but the improved usability. As will be possible, the Ministers of Finance will be discussed on the weekend, until then also in various telephone conferences, such as the National Bank representative. Questions 10 and 11: I have often expressed myself to hold a referendum. Again in all clarity: If it comes to a reform treaty which has an essential change, for example an economic government with the transfer of powers to a central economic government, if such a new treaty is to come about – and one cannot at the moment rule out the fact that someone brings in this idea; and you know that I have taken over it to convince my coalition partner, but one is convinced from the outset when a large treaty comes to us, perhaps I do not have to convince, perhaps even before me or at the same time – then, of course, on such a question that would affect Austria so massively, even by the constitutional situation and by the changes, in principle, a referendum will be positive. Questions 12 and 13 on budgetary monitoring: Here I actually see it and am in favour of countries, when they bring a budget into Parliament, as we do, being able to examine. I am in favour of this being examined by the Commission before or at the same time as it is organised. I'm not worried about Austria. We are very close to the three-percent target. Of course, it would be better if we were to be below the three percent, because then we would not even be in this deficit procedure. But that a country is putting itself in a certain truth, I am not afraid of that. Why? - Because I have nothing to hide. And to the criticism that Greece has not shown everything there and that perhaps at that time the Commission too has examined too little, which in turn says that it has criticized more than we want to do today, I would like to say clearly: The facts are to be put on the table, it is to show what one is up to as it stands in the country! Before that, Austria does not need to be afraid. On the contrary: I am convinced that it will do well if a clear situation exists in a euro zone where a certain interdependence has arisen through the currency. Therefore, I am basically in favour of a debt brake – whatever you can put into the expression – but I have always expressed myself, is that one organizes a debt brake in such a way that one can no longer invest anticyclically. There was always the border for me, because you have to be able to counter it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But for a debt brake, for a clear situation, for a decent examination, I agree, because I cannot demand that all documents be carefully checked, and when someone approaches the Austrian border, I say: Please, now I've only meant that for all the other neighbours! So I would call for this transparency everywhere. We don't need to fear this one at all. Questions 14 to 17: Bank recapitalisation has arisen by the EBA, the European Banking Supervisory Board, dealing with various scenarios, as I have already mentioned, and where I have also put forward a proposal to make differences. This banking recapitalisation is handled at an hour with different scenarios. This also has the background that after the last stress tests something happened every time, which was not recognizable in the stress test. As a result, it is understandable that this European banking supervision has been asked to deal with various scenarios even more intensively here. And that's what came out: It is not all rosy, but it is necessary for certain banks to put themselves at risk, even earlier than the Basel discussion in Parliament had done, to raise the issue of capitalization. This is a discussion that I think is right, and I expect the results of this scenario to come soon. I heard of two or three considerations yesterday, but they have not yet been fixed. On the basis of a Financial Market Stability Act, there is still a legal framework for stabilisation measures in the economic interest of six billion euros; you know that. On the question 18: After the conclusions for the European Council have been discussed at numerous meetings, I will give a written overview of them because I do not yet have them. The main responsibility for the preparation is the Permanent Representation Committees and the Foreign Ministers in the General Affairs Council. I'd like to pass it on to you. Questions 19 and 20: Of course there are preliminary talks, many, I am also involved in many. I divided this into a way that I could have talks both before and after. I do not see a lack of proposals from a country that is absolutely prepared to go through one, but rather I see a competitive disadvantage for us in the preparation of this involvement in a discussion that confronts financial markets with completely different decision-making structures. Nevertheless, I am convinced that democracy, parliaments and inclusion are necessary, but we will have to be interested as passionate democrats in how we, as such, can move these many affected parliaments, parties, coalition governments and so on to faster preparation. This is an important issue, because we face credit rating agencies, financial markets that carry out much faster decision-making processes, which gives the public the impression that they are pre- and we are re-hearsing. And in order to reverse this fact alone and restore the primacy of politics and the primacy of political decisions, I believe a discussion must be held that allows for faster decision-making processes. Therefore, it does not bother me if we have better and faster decision-making structures in the ESM's new constructions – of course, in the case of control of all those involved. It should not be one to decide on the other, but one should be able to decide more quickly on the basis of predetermined ways. And you'll check if he's kept it. The need to speed up these decision-making structures is out of question for me. That the credit rating agencies are always ahead of us for days and then we always struggle with our bodies, where it takes some time until we come to an opinion, redouble, I see as the wrong way. This is also felt by the population, and this is the main accusation in Europe, especially in those countries where youth unemployment is particularly high, where the tragedy of hopelessness is particularly noticeable because of unemployment and youth unemployment. It is not the accusation of politics that it is now doing too much, but it is the accusation of the policy that it does not find instruments as it can achieve what it wants faster. I see rather the dissatisfaction in large parts of the population. This should be an incentive for us to significantly speed up these decision-making processes. On question 21: You know the public coverage of Germany and France, and you know the fact that there is no proposal, where you have agreed, at the hour. Questions 22 and 23: Documents and reports shall be sent to Parliament on a regular basis. These include the Austrian proposals and positions on the conclusions. This also applies, for example, to the financial transaction tax that we have agreed together. There are few countries that have jointly decided both bank package and financial transaction tax. I think that there is far too little expression in these debates that the decision is being taken together in the face of key pillars. And with all the diversity that can be the subject of the discussion here too, we could also be a bit proud of these commons that have passed away in the past and, as I hope, will also exist in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On questions 24 and 25: I would like to say to you: It is clear that public resources must be handled with care in economically difficult times; this applies to all construction projects. I would just like to mention that the new construction of the Council building is not a new project, but was decided in March 2004 with a view to EU enlargement. I don't know what there is in construction work, I wasn't at the construction site, but this decision was taken in 2004; I wanted to underline that again. [[Abg. Oillinger: Who decided?]] The European Council in 2004, and there was some of you in the government that is not in the government today. [[Abg. Oillingers: Not from us!]] Not everyone from the opposition, but one or the other. On the question 28: There is no direct link between assumed liability and tax charges. We strive to minimise the burden on taxpayers and the economy in Austria in all the measures necessary for crisis management at European level. Questions 30 and 31: The ESFS is not directly subject to the control of the European Court of Auditors due to its construction. However, there are external auditors' examinations, and if they are to improve, change, develop, develop, even after the proposals of billing courts or political discussions, I am in favour of this because I believe that the ESF's bodies need to meet the wishes they have, and to achieve the objectives set. And there has to be control of whether the ESFS has also moved within the framework of these requirements. I am very much in favour of also discussing these controls, which are now planned with external auditors, and then bringing in Austrian proposals for stronger controls.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e12876	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 7 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e12913	Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Your efforts to perform humorous performances, Mr. Bundeskanzler, cannot conceal the fact that you have for the first time achieved your full inadequacies. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That was so! The Federal Chancellor here at the top of the government bank said he didn't know. – He doesn’t know anything, he’s waiting until Mrs. Merkel has a proposal, and would be grateful if she had one, and he’s waiting for Mr. Sarkozy to have a proposal, and would be grateful if he had one – but he doesn’t have one yet! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Ewald, you have to listen!]] I've been listening! I have tried to recognize between his humorous performances something that has substance – and there was no proposal there! He even convicts hellshoes. That's the only thing I could see in his humorous performances. Federal Chancellor! The situation is so serious that the Germans are currently considering – I do not know if you have already received the latest agency reports – that you can even move the summit on the weekend. This report has just arrived, a few minutes ago. That is what Europe is all about! I have remembered how you, and for over a year, all of us in all debates, including the liberals, have hated us, so to speak, we would have spoken badly, and meant that we could not save Europe, so that we could not get the crisis under control. That is why you have given your wonderful autosuggestive wishful speech to the best of all, just as your clearly overburdened Mrs Finanzminister did yesterday. What happened? [[Call the ÖVP:Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] – Not “Hello! Hello!” What Mrs Finanzminister said yesterday was a school essay entitled: Once I wanted to make a budget. – That’s all it’s been, ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] That's even the commentators who are close to you. Everyone has heard that this minister is overshadowed and unscrupulous. And today the Federal Chancellor has admitted that he is. Three weeks ago, 30. September, we decided here the EFSF. That's what you said: Well, that's it now! Now we decide on the first lifeguard, then we decide on the second lifeguard, and then everything is paletteti! Why did you not tell us at the time, especially the Greens, that a few weeks later, in so-called “non-papers” and the “non-papers”, Mr. Krainer said that it was going to make decisions at some point, was intended to extend the so-called rescue shield from 440 billion to 2,000 to 2,500 billion?- Oh, my God! I told you a few months ago that if this development continues if you permanently pump money into the cycle, an inflation will no longer be stopped. It even knows to Mrs. Schmauswaberl at home that this can't go on for the long term, and she's not as crazy as you think, she can decide a little more with home mind, just: They won't let you decide! Do you believe that if you had said three weeks ago that this EFSF without the consent of Parliaments, without any control, without any consideration of the additional obligations, would have been used up to 2 000 to 2 500 billion in this cycle, the Greens would have agreed to as the consent requirement would have required? – May be, I don't know! – No, I doubt that, unlike the liberals, I have a somewhat different opinion from the Greens. [[Call the FPÖ: They always agree!]] I don't need to share her world view, but there are not only unreasonable people there. I am convinced that if you had the cards on the table, some would have decided otherwise. I don't want to put anything in your mind. I'm just convinced you didn't know. What Kai Jan Krainer gave in the “Kurier ” for the best is worth quoting. Krainer said how the system will run. And that is what we have predicted, and now we have been confirmed by Mr Krainer. So I'm calling Krainer to testify. Not that I call Schäuble or Krainer to support their line, no, I just call them to witness, because these are obviously witnesses you believe a little more. So we quote Krainer, who says the EFSF buys state bonds, deposits them to the ECB for which we are participating, receives loans for it, buys with the money again state bonds, deposits them back to the ECB and receives credit again, and so on. Do you know what it used to be called in the business world, in the more offerable little Austrian business world? – Interchange, commercial fraud! – Yes, not excluded, that’s true! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] I repeat: Interchange, commercial fraud – with your contribution, with your support! [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Ostermayer.]] - Ah, that's about something else? You don't listen to me! Okay. But then I don't know what you're looking for in the back of the government bank. As I said, With your contribution party to the interrelationship, commercial fraud at international level, ladies and gentlemen! And that is what Mr Bundeskanzler – colleague Krainer – calls it, I have listened carefully, just so you know it – “better usability” of the EFSF. That's euphemism. I ask you finally to stop this euphemism; that is what the commentators say to you. The rescue shield is nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, but the reparation of a colossal damage that bankers and financial jugglers have done with the support of governments, otherwise nothing else! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Tell me what it's like: It's damage silence! And what you're doing here – what did you call it again? – have called “better usability” is, in fact, criminal commercial fraud in business life. Not at all, Mr Lopatka. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Don't make everyone criminal!]] If you want to know exactly who is ruining the economies as it is happening at the moment, it is a criminal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that's what the people see! And there's no use in your car's suggestive beautiful speeches, because one is clear – and there you can get out all the speeches; Colleagues stupid, even your speeches, where it's called a little bit, you're right anyway, but there's nothing else left to us –: At the end it always turned out that your Voodoo didn't come in! Your entire instigation formulas have all been of no use, your whole methods have been of no use! If the Chancellor of the Federal Republic now talks about the rating agencies again, I would like to pick up his metaphor from the physician and tell him that I feel as if it were the man who says to the fever-sick patient that the fever thermometer is to blame. – That is the same with your policy, ladies and gentlemen! You won't get along with that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you have to recognize one – and now I tell you in Stakkato: First: Bank collapses are inevitable. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Voodoo...! That's devil's work!]] – After all, we have only had the hope that you will understand. Again: Bank collapses are inevitable. Secondly, The average debt you left out of the EU line months ago is therefore inevitable! We have predicted this to you, I will tell you once again: Bank collapses will ultimately be inevitable! Secondly, The debt of the Greeks and probably of other countries is inevitable. Thirdly, The downgrading of the French is no longer to be prevented, and with the downgrading of the French, your whole so-called rescue shield is already failing. You know that. And yet you're still playing with this?- Oh, my God! I remember saying to the Austrians: Unfortunately, we cannot change it, we have joined the EU! Who, then, has invited the people of Eastern Europe to join the EU in 1994? – That, I think, is a strong piece! That was a quality increase today. Who said at the time: We must necessarily bring little Austria to the big Europe, because we will have a big voice there because we will have a veto!Unknown term type: "%s".? – When do you want to make use of this veto, if not now? Now is the time for the veto, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I warn you, Federal Chancellor – this is a serious warning: Don't underestimate people's anger outside, because they see one: For every speculator, for every bank, for every pleite state you have billions available, but for the small people you have nothing left! That's what people feel and that's what they're feeling outside. And you will one day experience that you will remember who brought them into this disaster: all the Vranitzkys, Schüssels, climates, casters, plassniks and prölls, who have already made every critical sentence a high treason! [[Call the ÖVP: The Haider!]] Critical sentences were made an anti-EU vote, warning voices were so to speak referred to the realm of the spirit world, the dreaming. Today it turns out that all you have promised was dreaming and today stands out as a glare and a trick. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this disaster, ladies and gentlemen on the government bench, you have led the people. People won't like it if you say: The people voted, we had nothing to do with that! You have led people into this disaster and you are prolonging the way into the disaster. And the anger of the people, the little people will meet you. It is currently starting in Greece. The anger of the little people is sweeping away your social democratic comrades. You'll see. They will drive them out of the government with wet squats, and that will be the better part. People have nothing to lose there, and those who have nothing left to lose, ladies and gentlemen, will clean up with their governments, through a method that we do not wish for. But I'm warning you: If you continue on this path, sometime you will get to feel the anger citizen in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13096	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13117	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! There are, of course, different types and ways of dealing with the important issue of the Euro/Salvation Screen. You can do this seriously and constructively, or you can do it populistly and polemically. [[Abg. Bucher: Or just like the cranes do!]] Personally, I tell you quite honestly, the issue is far too serious than that I would somehow deal with it with populism or polemics, because this is about nothing less than the question of the future of the European Union, the future of the euro as a means of payment, the future strength of Europe within a globalized world, the question of whether we play a role together at all, or whether quite different parts of this world with very different methods than we have – and these are not democratic – which determine the essential rules on how to produce what is consumed, how the environment is dealt with, what kind of social systems are ruling on this planet. It is too important for me to secure savings, I believe that the stabilisation of banks and financial systems is too important to be left to the polemists and populists, as you have just done here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your monthly speeches have all turned out to be false! Nothing's right!]] I can tell you that your concepts you're bringing here have already been tested. These “bank collapses are inevitable”, this concept has already been tested, in the 1920s and 1930s. We've seen what this led to: Mass unemployment, mass poverty, mass poverty. I do not even want to talk about the political, social, democratic or political-democratic consequences of this path, but we have already seen these concepts, and where they lead, we have seen them, and we certainly do not want to go this way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And yes, there are no historical examples. There are no such major crises every few years that you can build on the experiences of the last crisis so easily. Of course, there are ways that have been more successful in the past months and years, and which one has to correct with time, but this is always better for me than what you want to do, and what you're promoting here: something that has already been tried and what has already failed, with dramatic consequences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will certainly continue the way that we will do everything we can to bring about this stabilisation of the banking and financial system and the economy, the businesses, the savings funds. We do not help Greece or others because we believe that it is so great to help the Greeks, or because we want to throw any money behind them, but because we know precisely that, if Greece is going to fail, it has inevitable consequences for all countries in the European Union and for us too. We also remember that the first rescue shield was a rescue shield for us. This was the rescue shield for Eastern Europe: 50 billion €. That was the very first rescue shield, and it was very important for us for the stabilisation. And there was no mention of the Greeks for a long time. It is true that solidarity is not a one-way road, but that it must work in both directions. Other countries have also helped with the first shield in Eastern Europe, also in our very interest, and we must also make our contribution within the European Union. In any case, we are ready to do so. But not for cheap populism to change political change. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, it can be seriously and constructively disputed about a lot, and you also get to know that we, the government parties and also the Greens, are not always an opinion on every step you have to take. I also see a lot of critical. I also believe that it is right that we in Europe have clear deficit limits and rules. I think it is right that the annual deficits will return to below 3% as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Hear: Bravo!]] I think it is right that we have debt ratios and that we all see that we are below 60% indebtedness. I think that's right. But I'll tell you one thing, too. Unfortunately, we do not yet have, for example, a limit to unemployment. I would think it is at least as right that we in Europe should make the same effort to reduce unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On average, if we have 20 percent youth unemployment in the European Union, the peaks go up to 48 percent, all the alarm bells would have to cry. And that is what I say in a country with 3.7 percent total unemployment, far away from these figures. I am quite prepared to criticize this, but not with the consequence: If that does not happen, then we leave the European Union! [[Abg. Bucher: Who said that? Who said that? We said that Greece should leave!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] That's really what you're saying here. The logical conclusion of your policy and your proposals is that Austria's exit from the euro and from the European Union. That's what you're proposing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: This is populism what you do!]] [[Abg. Bucher: An disturbed perception!]] Yes, you can also dispute the design of EFSF, by ESM: Do you have a hand? Don't you have it? In what form do you have? How do Parliaments get involved in these questions? I have said my opinion on this, and that is what I stand for. This is certainly not the only opinion that exists in Europe. In the last two weeks I have been in Germany, in France, in London and have been talking to many European financial politicians there, and I tell you that there are very different opinions. [[Oh-Rufe at FPÖ and BZÖ]] Because there's always talk about some secret papers: So I don't know any secret paper. There's a lot of papers. I can tell you that if you want to read the contents that were written on Sunday in the “Kurier”, for example, only a speech by Barroso from 12th century onwards. Download October from the network. There you go. You are in exactly the content that is the subject of this Sunday. You only need to read the “Handelsblatt” online from Friday last week. You have exactly the same content inside. You don’t just need to be photographed and pasted with the “Financial Times” all over Austria, you just need to read it. You have exactly the same content inside. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just a few words to the banks. Nobody in Austria wants banks. So at least I don't know anyone in the government who says I really want to take over some banks in Austria now. Every politician is happy when the banks solve their own problems. Everyone's happy about it. But if it comes about that it is necessary to help banks, then we have done so in the past. Only what I think should be different in the future: If it comes back to the need for help, I think it is right that this is not about participation capital, but about voting capital, because it cannot be used to issue dividends, and that this year again calls for State aid. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] It can't be either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Socialism pure!]] Nor can it be that in the good years dividends are distributed and in the bad years the state is asked for money. That can't be it, and that's why we stand for it. I believe that there can be a lot of different opinions, but that is what three parties stand out here is that they are serious and honest about the future of the European Union, about the future of the euro area. With these parties, we are happy to talk about it and we also like to argue about it, but to ride on the Polish and populist rails, for this the European Union is me, for this the euro is for me, for this is also a great pity to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13308	Mr Lopatka has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13330	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I was able to follow my colleague Krainer on long distances today. But what I didn't quite understand, I say quite openly, is if he rejects populism so much, why he played out a so-called non-paper here a few days ago. The Federal Chancellor has just rightly said that there are several variants in the discussion, but there is no EU proposal yet, but Mr Krainer is already making massive criticism by the SPÖ of the EU plans. The Federal Chancellor just said he did not know these plans yet, but Mr. Krainer is already making massive criticisms and knows that “massive hammers” come to us. Is this a contribution to creating more security within the population that is already uncertain, Mr Krainer? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Or is this not also a contribution to uncertainty? And that's where I tell you, you're not far from the opposition like Mr Stadler, who meant he was surprised. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Well, it is. I'm also telling you why you're not far from the opposition. Yes, of course, Greece has a massive problem, and with Greece all of us, because we are all in the European Union, have a big problem. But thank God Greece is not Europe. And Europe is not yet on the abyss with God, to say that quite clearly. But with the words, with the “hämmers” that come to us, with the “big Bang summit” you are addressing here, you are again making contributions in this direction. You know very well that in the banking world as well as in politics, everything is not logical, but much is also psychological, which happens in the end. And that is why we should be very, very careful with our choice of words. The second thing I would like to say to you: The big difference between us, the government parties and the opposition, especially the BZÖ, should already be that we do not simply say: Njet, Veto! and believe the problems are solved. I don't think so. This is a simple answer, but it guarantees the wrong answer. What Europe needs now is decisive and clear action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] – No, no unconditional hunting! And you see how difficult this decision-making process is if perhaps the summit is not taking place on Sunday. We don't know. What we need here are regulations that are then accepted by the market, and unfortunately it has not yet been possible at European level to find these regulations where we do not need to increase the overall guarantee amount so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] This total guarantee is already very high. I would like to make a distinction between Mr Krainer and Mr Stadler, because I think that what has been proposed here is a new variant of an insurance scheme, which I believe can be a common one. We need investors who are willing to invest in Ireland, in Portugal, in order to name other countries, and of course also in Greece, and this is about securing some of the losses, depending on how this state is doing, that we create a flexible system here. If then a euro-state is unable to operate its debts, then this mechanism will become effective without, as has been said, increasing the overall guarantee amount that we have up to now. them. But we are very likely to achieve a lever effect – liverage, as it is always called – so that we then have the volume beyond the trillion limit. A huge sum! Everything indicates that this is necessary to achieve this calming which we have not achieved so far. The limits of liability for Austria, which I would like to say very clearly, will of course remain the same. Second: It's not like nothing's happened yet. At the European level, the Council of Heads of State or Government and also the European Parliament have managed to show a way through this ‘six-pack rule’, where, as a national Parliament, we too will be called for next year, when this legislative act enters into force, which will also be implemented nationally, in order to achieve again what was right, namely, to establish that by 2020, government debt will again be below 60 percent. We must then take this next step. The first one with the Federal Financial Framework Act was right. But what has been proposed by Spindelegger and Fekter is to set a limit on debt in the Constitution, which we will need. And that will certainly not be easy in some areas, if we have to comply with this debt limit. Therefore, I would like to say to you that I welcome this initiative at European level as regards this ‘six-pack rule’. And we will be called on to do our homework within the country. We have a Stability Pact in Austria, and then we need the countries, but not only the countries, of course we also need these outsourced areas where billions are bound; Mr Bartenstein mentioned it today: at the ASFINAG, at the ÖBB, at the BIG. These are areas that are outside the budget, where we now have a total of more than €30 billion when I add that. So this is also the case. The area must be included here. Federal Chancellor! I would ask you very much to inform you, as was possible in the past, whenever this Council is, immediately thereafter of the individual political groups. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] This is Parliament's involvement. In the case of German Chancellor Schüssel, this was possible earlier when I think of the Lisbon Treaty. And I would also ask you to inform our Parliament as soon as possible of decisions in the Council, because we need to discuss that. This is a very, very large area. Parliament's responsibility is also given here, because in addition to control rights, budgetary rights are actually the great rights of national parliaments. And of course this is also about our budget. That would be my request to you, as soon as possible from the Council, which was the so-called Fireman Committee that gave it, and not forced by special meetings to inform Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13430	Mr Themessl has now come to terms. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13451	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Krainer! It's a little easy to get out of here and say it's too bad I'm risking the savings deposits. You obviously do not know that we secured the savings deposits over three years ago, in September 2008, with this bank rescue package. And other countries in Europe have made it the same. To compare this with what has happened in the past weeks and months is simply legendary! These are peanuts against the sums now spoken of! And now we're coming back to the beginning. A year and a half ago I told you here in Parliament when it came to the first aid for Greece that it makes absolutely no sense to use the money to calm down banks and pay interest. It would have been more important to set the economy up there so that people could get back to work and not go on the road. And then they would have been able to solve the problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When we spoke to you at the time about whether the amount of this rescue package will be reached, everyone said, yes, that is the most generous calculation, that will be more than enough, since it never needs a second. In the meantime, we're talking about a third. And that has system. And I'll tell you what the system looks like. The system has now increased and increased, and more and more threats are being voiced, because at the ultimate goal there should be a centralist government in Brussels, which will decide everything and take up the competences of the national states and national parliaments. That's exactly where you want to go. And that's where you're going! They're selling our citizens something that's not true. They permanently lie to the population. They tell people the untruth. The horror reports that came earlier in the monthly period are coming every day, and they are getting much worse every day. With Greece it has begun, it has been said that a debt cut does not come into question. We have called for this one and a half years ago, and we have said at that time that it will not be possible without an orderly debt reduction. In the meantime, the EU line is. You've needed a year and a half. The only realization that Mrs. Merkel has gained in recent years was that she is now – after three years! – It has come about that in the crisis one reacts too slowly and too difficult. It's great! We told you a year and a half ago that reactions must take place quickly, in such a targeted way that they can move wherever they work, and not to calm down banks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Stop hating that you want to save countries there! You don't save any countries at all, you save only the banking systems in these countries; the banking systems that you've made so big that no one can control them anymore. Banks have been in control of politics for a long time and not vice versa. Or do you really believe that the hundreds of thousands of Greeks currently celebrating on the street are celebrating because we helped them? Yes Believe You really do? – They suffer just as our taxpayers will suffer when all this is to be paid. That's why they go to hundreds of thousands on the road, and it's just a matter of time when you're going on until we do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you how it all develops. You read newspapers, too. You claimed in the morning that you only heard positive expert reports, I don't know what newspapers you read, because in the newspapers I read, and that were not very few, there are only other things inside, things that are very negative. I'm taking a few points now. “ Mirror ” writes today: It threatens a currency reform. [[Abg. Krainer: About the Austrian budget?]] - Wait! We are now talking about the EU budget. [[Abg. Krainer: Oh that, but before that, you talked about the Austrian budget!]] We are now talking about € 2 trillion, € 2 000 billion to be raised or lifted up by the EFSF. That's what we're talking about! And what this means for the Austrian state when liability becomes a hit, you know, too. I'll tell you what's going on. One year ago, it was said that if Spain and Italy were to come under the umbrella – by the way today in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” – it would cost €613 billion. Now one speaks of € 1 400 billion only for Spain and Italy. In the meantime, however, we know that France is already swinging. Yes, what do you think the population in Germany, which has 90 percent of all these sums to pay, will say if it is then asked to register?- Oh, my God! I am telling you that it is not a question of whether the Austrian Government is asking itself the question of getting out of the EU or of this monetary union, but of what will happen if Germany rises from this monetary union! I can't imagine that the population of Germany, which contributes significantly to economic growth and to the state of these ESM and EFSF arrests, because of the fact that it has to pay the lion's share, will continue to fall. After Germany, France is the second largest economy in the EU, in the euro zone, Italy is the third largest. And we are already talking about €1 400 billion in the event that Italy and Spain should come under the umbrella. Portugal is not there, Ireland is not there, we have not spoken of Belgium at all, because it is probably too small. In your eyes, they're peanuts, and you don't count millions and billions. They also don't care if you hang nine or twelve zeros, because it doesn't matter anyway. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then France will be added. What do you think this will lead to? In addition, you will also finance an EU apparat in Brussels with 46 000 officials, 11 200 of whom earn more than €10 000 net a month. [[Abg. Hörl: These are less than in Vienna!]] That is over €100 million a month only for the payment of every fourth official in the EU! They pay people to ensure that national parliaments are dissolved and then you have to look for a new job yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13574	Mr Mag. Kogler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13596	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! One thing before: We do not want to acknowledge that you are always speaking and replying to urgent questions and requests from political groups here in the House as well as you can or will be able to or willing to answer on very difficult issues – as far as we are now looking at them for the last time. But after all, that was not always and not so with all, not with finance ministers or with German Chancellors. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] As far as Parliament's involvement is concerned, Mr Lopatka, you will find a partner in us when it comes to how to organise it even better, different and deeper in the future. Only, admittedly, the times are obviously not quite easy. In this respect, you have already been able to find some lonely decision in your predecessor's bowl, which was then somehow reworked in the so-called committee of the same name. But also better than nothing. It's not that easy. But there is still no reason for hysteria and depression, I think. It is still true if you look at that in light: The European economy is much stronger than the American. What's going on? [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The euro area could be quite different if it were not to be shot constantly from the outside and in the wrong place so to speak. That's loud doors from behind. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] From my point of view, it will soon be impossible to understand. My previous speaker has just mentioned that everything goes down the stream, the Germans and what I know and how long. Now, 2009, 2010 and 2011 there has been another upturn, as it will look out over the next two years, is another question again. But these are economic fluctuations, which is not primarily a crisis of the currency area. From my point of view, there should be no euro crisis, there is a banking crisis and a sovereign debt crisis, which, by the way, are the two sides of the same medal. If that is the case, then the question is why you are not getting any clearer, better and more orderly solutions. I am not a Marxist – that would be, analytically considered, not so disgraceful. Marx has analyzed and found a lot of wise things, the therapy is another thing. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But if everything is that way, you can also ask about the interests behind any decisions or decisions. I will not give the impression that politicians in the European Monetary Union can be very strongly driven or once imprisoned by interests that do not come from the Union at all, but where pressure from outside is being built up. Sure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's the dollar room once. These are the British within Europe, they are wondering where they belong. Make them a union with the United States and Canada, what do I know, but that can't continue. It can't go on like this! Everything that is moving to block on the financial market, on matters of regulation, on issues of financial transaction tax, should not be possible, but the others, interestingly, can be stopped again and again. I don't think that's all right. But then, from my point of view, there is a much more dramatic conflict of interest, and – therefore Karl Marx – banks as synonym will soon have to resign, because that does not really explain everything. Oh, my God, we find a lot in the bank balance. There are many stakeholders around banks, because ultimately, as has been said, the savers belong to this and that. Banks were also more concerned with the owners of capital, which, by the way, also in Austria, have made quite a lot of profits for many years. But then, when it gets serious, everyone and especially those who can do it even less easily pay the taxpayers. And that's not going on in the long run! I'm convinced that's not fair. In this respect, there can be different opinions. Some people think it's okay when it's diverted from bottom to top. This opinion can be too, we are not. I think that's the least, but the least of them also know that this is happening. That's the point: That's happening! Now on the crucial points that are coming back in Europe in the run-up to the summit. In fact, it is much less about Greece's history, but about bank recapitalisation, beyond the extent to which Greece is causing problems. I admit that a year and a half ago I saw it even easier how to organize the debt cut in Greece. But it is above all because It is more difficult because we do not have an appropriate orderly procedure. We're fighting for having it in the future. But regardless of the history of Greece, we have a huge banking problem, and that is why it will again be about these recapitalisations. In reality, it will be a question of paying back, or at least temporarily entering into liability, of temporarily entering into equity, so that the quotas fit and there the immunizations of fluctuations function better. Bank recapitalisation will be a topic. Another question is the sovereign debt crisis, debt cuts and how the system eats. A question will then be finally and hopefully also the financial market regulation. It has again passed too much time, in which quite obviously too little has happened. The bank levy mentioned by Mr Bundeskanzler is indeed, I think, not so dramatic, but a financial transaction tax would have a double effect, a controlling, a controlling, but, of course, a revenue effect. This would, of course, also have to do with social burden-sharing if we caught up with the right financial transactions, but we can, we already know that. In this area, by the way, we have gone a lot further, thank God, from me, whether we are proud of it together, Federal Chancellor, you have invited us to do so after the Greens were the first to present the requests here in Parliament at the beginning of the 2000s, but you have also represented it, that is right. However, it will also be quite slow to ask the question, if nothing helps, that we also have to include the very great wealth – whether it be those that have obviously been deducted in Greece to hundreds of billion, at least 200 billion, but also elsewhere in Europe – somewhere else. It can't stay that way with those – what does it say in your Jargon? – millionaire taxes do not happen. Something has to happen! Okay, you're leaning out of the window for Austria, yes, then, with all of you! Something will have to happen, and we will have opportunities to make decisions together, or we will have the opportunity to force you. Whoever has more joy with this situation, we do not know yet when it comes to the two-thirds majority. But it can be helped, it is not hopeless. That's our attitude. This hopelessness on the one hand and this hysteria on the other is actually the energizing one. It doesn't have to be that way, it can also be different and it should and will be different if you do it well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Above all, we will need more European instruments – in this respect, of course, we are of different opinion, especially with regard to blue and orange – however that means. But in order to coordinate economic and social policy, a few areas, if not everywhere, will have to vote a few things, and whether or not a change in the Treaty is needed to do so is another question. Probably. That's what's being discussed. By the way, we have not only said this and analysed it a year and a half ago, but also demanded it because it is useful and necessary. Read it! And that's right now. You don't have to be afraid of that, we should just do that. And if you are there with self-confident commitment, you can do so. But the shaming and not explaining or the insufficient explanation of the few decisions that are made will not help. Of course, such a change of contract does not fall from heaven, it will need another Convention, and of course it will take time. But it will all be useful, which at least once brings an approximate indication of direction in these areas. Let's go through the points again quickly. What will be important in bank recapitalisation? – That’s not going to happen anymore, although I’ve already heard corresponding calls for call that state money will flow again, be paid interest from time to time, not in the event of bad wind. I don't know, the banks choose it themselves, they'll pay it back or not, as it just fits in. That's how it was in Austria. In some European countries the situation is even more dramatic, because there has not even been as much agreement as with us. As a general rule, however, more stringent provisions have been agreed. We also need a common European procedure for competition reasons, but it is then, especially in the case of more or less forced capitalizations in those who are not supposed to be allowed to fall, for the usual debated reasons, according to the provision that this is in this part a public matter and a public good – until another solution has been found. And this is certainly in these instruments, in more European solidarity and not less.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13745	Mr Windholz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13766	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! We are debating areas in which we are now dealing with unimaginable sums. 2 500 billion! An amount up to this sum can be beaten for us. Former Secretary of State Lopatka also said: Yes, that will be necessary! – If we allow the last months to happen, we can already point out that we have to be rightly suspicious of all these things when the Federal Government speaks beautifully. I remember very well that our Minister for Finance said: What the booker has again is a good business for Austria?- Oh, my God! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, even the Federal Chancellor has now distanced himself from it and has certainly said that he has not said so. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: The Minister of Finance has not said that either, take note!]] - Didn't she say? I still have it in my ears that this is supposed to be a good business. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: Then go to the ear doctor!]] If you want to involve the opposition somewhere, these are no confidence-building measures. I was very excited what the Federal Chancellor will tell us today. It's the next 23 years. October, the European Council. What will he tell us here, especially in view of the background that a SPÖ member has told us a lot via “Kurier”? “Non Paper”, “real Hammer”, “big-bang summit”, he was obviously very widely informed. So far I only knew Rudi Ratlos, but today I also met Werner Ratlos [[OBJECTIVES]] He doesn't know, he has no idea, he can be surprised what Merkel and Sarkozy will be presenting. The summit of populism, which came from there, was the assumption that Josef Bucher had left the European Union. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are pointing this out to the most decisive. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We did not talk about leaving the European Union. We want to take protection against the Austrian population so that we are not finally drawn deep into this mess. No one can imagine the risk here today, the consequences of this failure. At least now, in connection with the averting of a major damage, the Federal Chancellor has said that we are also taking a huge risk. We naturally address the methodology when it comes to the loss of damage. I think it's wrong to take this risk at this level. I can also refer to the Bucher plan, which all of us had a mild smile weeks and months ago. Many experts now share Josef Bucher's opinion. In any case, I give more than what is being communicated to us here by the Federal Government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because the veto is addressed: The Veto is, of course, a legitimate means of policy in the European Union. I remember a popular desire that I brought in. The word “Veto” was an absolute disaster. Others have applied the veto, in which it was, of course, a democratic right. We will not let you out of the responsibility, we demand a veto. You can't easily put these sums at risk! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we want the people's representatives to express their views here, and I should like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, the Veto is a command of the hour. You are Austrian Chancellor, please look at our population! The path that you are still representing brings with you a risk that can completely cause Austria to fall into the abyss. We urge you urgently and hope that Parliament will support this veto. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, if you repeatedly come up with the argument that it would be populism, then I can stop you, that is a legiti-mes political right. Populism is in my eyes, if you are constantly, when such topics come, talking about the millionaire tax, of any millionaires. So you won't clean up a budget, so you'll talk things away to another level. This is populism from my point of view – the Veto here is, on the other hand, a command of the hour.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13871	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is being discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13967	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e13998	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Windholz, in one we agree, namely that your world view does not correspond to our world view. Although they do not want to exclude Austria from the EU, they do not want to exclude the others, and that means the same in the final effect: alone against the others. [[Abg. Books: EU and euro zone are two different things!]] I think we agree on one point: The situation, in which Europe and thus Austria are located, is quite serious, and how we behave over the next few weeks, what decisions we will make will have far-reaching effects – for the people of Austria and for the whole of Europe, and that will result in each other again. [[Abg. Bookers: They will all be burdened!]] It is not only Greece's future, but also that of the euro and the European Union as a whole that is at stake in this crisis. We must not forget how we are interwoven and economically connected with the other countries of the EU. You know, and we have often said that enough about how important this networking is to us, because the jobs of a million Austrians are now located in the export area. The WIFO has shown that the euro in Austria creates 20 000 jobs annually, and we can speak of about €2.5 billion a year, which the euro contributes to our prosperity. We must remember this in all our decisions. We must find ways out of the crisis that secure our prosperity and jobs for Austria. We do not achieve this with populism – and I say this now quite consciously – and we do not achieve this with national egoisms. Who thinks this is the right thing to know how much the global dependence in the economy and in finances has developed. But we do not achieve this either by constantly saying a general no to everything. Europe can only cope with this crisis together. I wonder if I look at this question: Where are the concrete proposals of the BZÖ? No solution can be found in the request! [[Abg. Bucher: This is a request!]] Nevertheless, you propose a veto here, since a veto is proposed, but you have never brought any real solutions either. Problems are not solved by putting in a veto here and there, but by making concrete proposals. If there are proposals from you, like you, Mr Bucher, today, then they are probably quite unforgivable and very shortened. They spoke about the exclusion of Greece. What does that mean? This cannot be proposed seriously! [[Abg. Bookbooker: Greece can resign from international law itself!]] They do not seem to be aware that Greece is a state and not a company. If you send a company into insolvency, it's okay, then it's gone from the market. But what are you doing with Greece? – A little voodoo perhaps from Mr Stadler, and away is Greece, and the problem is solved if we exclude it. That can't be, that's polemic. [[Abg. Strache: The SPD member Professor Hankel says something completely different! A smart man from Germany!]] The hard currency union is also an unbridled concept. Finally, admit that a hard currency union would mean the ruin of the Austrian export economy – with all the consequences for Austrian workers. Political decision-makers are rightly required to make them a stabilising and also responsible policy, and I fear that you will not be there. What we need is an EU-wide approach to fiscal consolidation in order to be more independent from the financial markets. Not only do we need savings, but we also need revenue. [[Abg. Bucher: Tell your party leader!]] And I am very happy to get to the rich tax and the property tax, and I am very much in favour of the financial transaction tax, which you have also agreed to. We need a comprehensive restructuring of our policy towards the financial industry. If there can only be real solutions at EU level for many problems, it is also clear that there can only be legitimacy for these solutions through adequate involvement of national parliaments. We will certainly continue to debate this issue because it is very important for us. That is what I am giving to State Secretary of State, who recently said in the "ZiB2", the problems we face are too complex for simple solutions. That is, populism can be forgotten here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14118	Mr Dr. Stummvoll spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14140	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I regret that Mr Stadler is not here. I actually wanted to congratulate him on his speech. I don't think it's more perfect to give a speech here. It belongs to a textbook of politics, under the heading “Arrogance of the Minority”, ladies and gentlemen. I have to say honestly, with all his talent for rhetoric: All the others, as he does, are already adventurous, is really strong tobak. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For weeks and months 17 heads of government, 17 finance ministers, 17 bank leaders with a huge staff, with a brain trust of experts day and night, check out 27, 38 options – and the Ewald Stadler goes here and says: That's all Holler! He knows better. [[Abg. Bucher: They don't bring anything together!]] Mr Klubobmann, if the BZÖ confesses itself to Europe – and I take this away, I believe you – I would really appeal to you: Please, do not change small political money in a situation where Barroso says the EU has been facing the biggest challenge since the EU came into existence. [[Abg. Bucher: That's too little!]] I think you should really look at it: How do solutions look?, and help find solutions. The solutions are not easy, but you should help find solutions, and not say arrogantly here: That's all a pot, that's all a hollower, that's what's being done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I really believe that the drama of the sovereign debt crisis is caused by the fact that almost all European states – more than those in the north in the south – spent more than they took over for years, and that this sovereign debt crisis has led to what we are now experiencing: that we are getting new horror reports every day. I have just received the report, the EU summit is taking place on the weekend, and the Chancellor Merkel only cancels her statement of government. You can see that hundreds of experts and politicians are missing a solution, and you can't just say: That's all a pot, and we've always known it better! Mr. Klubobmann, you know I appreciate you. If you confess to Europe, you also have to see it, it is really about the project Europe. I fully agree with Hugo Portisch in his new book. Many of us have forgotten what Europe is really about in this project. [[Abg. Booker: “What now?” he said, the Portuguese!]] The idea was a peace project, and Europe is also a project for jobs, incomes and social security. If you want to play in the global competition of the economic locations in the Champions League, you need a large unit. The EU is a large unit of 500 million people. And if you want to exist in the competition between China, India, Russia, USA, Brazil, then I'd rather be in a big unit than just a small country. [[Abg. Bucher: We did not live on the trees before 2001!]] And we have a 60 percent share of exports in GDP – every second job depends on export! – depend on the security of the currency as well. Let us remember: From 1985 to 1995, there were 20 currency depreciations. There must be an interest in a stable currency, in the stability of the euro. And the euro is stable! Only one thing is clear, please: If the sovereign debt crisis continues to escalate and if we do not get hold of it, the euro will also be gone. And there's again Merkel right: If the euro falls, the EU will fall. [[Abg. Booker: This is a fool!]] – So what the German Chancellor says is a Holler? All right, that's a bit of arrogance again. I'm telling you what it's all about now: It is about the European Union project as a peace project as well as a project for jobs, income, social security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Booker: This is a nonsense, you know!]] Ladies and gentlemen, when we say we have to help, we do so – I say it again, and I have often said this here – because the euro is our money, the euro is our wages and salaries, our pensions, our savings. That is why we have an incredibly high self-interest. We don't give the Greeks any money. [[Abg. Haubner: You are also expecting Schilling!]] Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter said yesterday – and I can't afford to repeat it: €1.4 billion to the hypo and €1.3 billion to Greece so far. You already have to remember the sizes. I'm not talking about the almost €20 billion in liability for the hypo, but only about what has flowed so far: €1.4 billion to the Hypo Carinthia, €1.3 billion for Greece, which has so far flowed. That's just to remember the magnitudes. [[Abg. Bucher: Greece is worth more to you than Carinthia! Carinthia have left their lives so that there is Austria! It's unheard of!]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it must also be said that we cannot release the Greeks from their responsibility to do their homework, which is undisputed. I have always said that the euro protection shield has a major function – and that is the time gain. After all, once you have a deficit of 15 percent, no one can believe that this is gone in two or three years. Therefore: It takes time to get the Greeks to do their homework strictly controlled by the Monetary Fund. But we are also obliged to help the Greeks in our own interest. Let me say the following about the various measures: On the other hand, the ÖVP is – first – that at the expense of the taxpayer of the euro-saving screen, it is extended once again. [[Abg. Strache: But now you blow it up until it bursts! You're making a hedge fund now! Blow up! 2.6 billion!]] Secondly, However, we of the ÖVP are for greater flexibility and efficiency. But that doesn't have to be the bank solution you described so horribly, dear colleague Bucher. This can also be an insurance solution; Mr Lopatka has already indicated this. By the way, I think an insurance solution is much more efficient than a bank solution that I am not. In addition, we will do all of this in the same way as the Monetary Fund. The Monetary Fund has a lot of know-how and a lot of expertise. And if the Monetary Fund gives the money free, we will also give it free. If the Monetary Fund is not free, we will not release it either. As far as the third point is concerned, the question of Eurobonds, as I must say, I am very, very skeptical. This would only work if we had a common economic and monetary policy, but from which we are far away. Therefore, once again at the end – my speaking time is about to end –: I call on all those who commit themselves to the European Union project not to want to change small political money in this really delicate phase of European development, but to help find viable solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14324	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14346	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President, I should also like to point out that you are once again a populist and that you are saying that the EU is being rejected by us anyway, I would like to say to you: In doing and doing all my political activity, the people are still in the foreground – and not any institutions that are located in Brussels. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you, Mr President, are boldly saying that the EIA is against an extension of the EFSF, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that all this has long been decided not to ask us as a Parliament for a long time now. That's fact. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the financial condition of the euro zone – which can be clearly noted – worsens and worsens from minute to minute. I just read the ORF headline: ‘New rumours in a minute’. And maybe what I'm talking about here is no longer up-to-date, because something has changed. We've been able to track this in the last few days: The decommissioning of the Belgian-French bank DEXIA, which at least has a credit volume of €520 billion – with only €8.8 billion of equity – from Italy's three stages. This is a ratio of 60 : 1! You have to keep this in mind once. With the insolvency of Lehman Brothers, the bank from America that went down the stream, this ratio was 31 : 1. So there is the highest level of alarm! The Bank Austria, which belongs to the UniCredit, can no longer escape this influence. The UniCredit is now even suspected that there are cases of corruption. These are things where a lot of things will come into our minds in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, the so-called Bail Outs and Rescue Packages do not benefit, because they have only one goal: to gain time, but they do not work. In the next few days, the EFSF will be increased to 2.5 trillion, which is €2 500 billion. Here we can talk about what we want: The time for a rescue has long been over. Ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? What are the consequences? A Community currency, as we have it, demands economic unity – and this, in turn, entails a weakening of the nation states. But you have never told the citizens of our country. Here we also come to the key questions: Should democracy, as we understand it, be sacrificed for the euro in favour of a regulation that is now in our hands? Do we want a European single stop? Do we want a European economic government to intervene directly in the national sovereignty of a country, from budgetary agents to tax questions to a pension system where everything is regulated? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are other possibilities – and there will be nothing left to us but to think about alternatives. But you don't want the coalition parties! It is always pretended to be the euro zone of Europe. That's not true. The euro zone consists of 17 states, the European Union of 27 states. Those ten European countries, which are not in the euro zone, are currently the happier ones, because they do not have these problems. In particular, Poland, which is in a so-called waiting position with regard to the euro, is careful to take over the euro as a Polish currency now. It would therefore also be possible to think about transferring the Greeks back to this euro area, because there would be a possibility to scale individual currencies to a certain extent. Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The crash in Greece – which was said a year and a half ago by Mr Themessl, by me and by other Members of the Liberal Party – is inevitable. Moving out becomes more expensive from day to day; we must be aware of this. What is being done in Austria – but not just with us, but with the whole European Union, which has long been in the hands of the banks – is nothing but bankruptcy, and bankruptcy has never been expected. Now we've reached a crossroads – that's what I want to write to you in the main book – and we have to decide: Do we want to keep our democracy or do we finally want to go to a dictatorship of the Board of Governors?
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14443	Mrs Lichtenecker's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14464	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, I am able to have some understanding for your Grant about the situation – or also about anger – but have no understanding, Mr Klubobmann Bucher, for your request that Greece should leave the European Union. [[Abg. Bucher: Anger! Anger citizen!]] With regard to this demand, which you repeatedly make from the BZÖ, but also you from the FPÖ, you have to think clearly what that might mean. What does that mean in concrete terms? – If Greece goes out of the euro zone, that means that speculations begin on other countries, such as Italy, Spain or Portugal, which means that this is the beginning of the end of this monetary union. That's not what we want, and I'm telling you: At this time, we need a more Europe – and not less. This is certainly one of the important steps. Mr Klubobmann Bucher, Europe has grown together over the last decades, has become a success model. This success model has created prosperity and ensured social peace and has driven economic development forward. I do not think that all of this could have happened in this form if the nation states were to stand alone. Of course: The challenges facing the next EU summit are great. One of the major tasks is to ensure that Europe no longer drifts apart and that clarity is created. This is certainly the challenge for the forthcoming summit. What is now to be forgotten again and again – just looking at the situation in Greece, Spain and Portugal – is: Europe needs investment in the future and thus a coordinated investment programme to stop the downward spiral also economically. We have been dealing with many technical details in the last few days and today: how many billions in which rescue shield, in which package, EFSF, ESM, bank recapitalisation and so on. What we are forgetting is what is happening in the individual countries in Europe at the moment, for example, in connection with youth unemployment. What happened yesterday in Greece? – Large demonstrations on the spot, whether the hard cuts that have been made. No question, the changes are necessary, the cuts are inevitable. But who's affected? – Mostly the younger people. This crisis shows that young people are facing major problems. If Europe and policy do not clearly identify, create and support options, then the young people in particular will turn their backs on Greece and the situation will worsen further. This will not only affect Greece, but it will also affect other countries. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Imagine this: In the age group from 15 to 24 years are four out of ten young Greek people without work, but with good training! These are tendencies that we do not want in this form. If we now look at the very concrete measures that are really planned for investment, I can tell you that in the last financial committee, Mrs Minister, we have the question: How, then, is Greece being helped to bring the country back to its feet, that the economy is being boosted again?, the answer has been: Yes, there will be technical support from Member States on border security, on refugee issues, on privatisation support and so on. I'm telling you, that's going to be too little, there's gonna have to be an overall package. And don't forget, Austria too has been helped. Similarly, there will have to be for Greece and possibly for other countries in order not to worsen the situation. 18 months have gone into the country, the situation has not improved, it has become worse, the economy in Greece has broken down massively, a small amount of economic performance of 12 percent since 2008. It is clear that not one summit can chase the other, that there is a need for a summit where there is a clear solution, a clear structure as it goes on, and also a coordinated investment programme. Mr Bundeskanzler, please take this with you: Make sure that the discussion in this area is pushed forward, that there are appropriate solutions! And to the colleagues from the BZÖ, because there was the foreign exchange, it's not the Grant, it's the anger: It's better to have courage than to have much anger!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14510	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14531	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! For one and a half years, Josef Bucher has been visiting the country, and for a year and a half, he and the entire BZÖ have been warning us here to provide something for this Greek aid. First of all, we should see that we are putting our budget in order and that we are getting something on the way for our people. But no, fact is that we have already transferred €1.5 billion to the Marode Greece and that we have entered into liabilities of 29 billion. And one to remember, dear ÖVP Members: Whoever is liable, payes! That's an old saying, you can think of it a lot. But what does this federal government do? – This Federal Government serves Brussels, which bubbles in front of Brussels, betraying the interests of the Austrian taxpayer. I think it's really time for you to say: Enough paid! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I remember the letter from the Tyrolean companies and companies. I have already handed over the letter to Josef Bucher. These companies have 27 000 employees. Are all these entrepreneurs, as you've always said, deeds or idiots? These companies ask us to do everything we can to stop this madness, this Greece and Euro aid immediately. Another example: 14 days ago, the Norwegian Transport Committee visited us in Parliament. And the chairman of the Norwegian Transport Committee, who was, after all, Minister, said to me: Austria is really very good at each other, the infrastructure is very good, but we can only laugh about your Greek rescue in Norway. And the whole thing is actually just going to help the banks. It is precisely those banks that are no longer ready to help Austrians and Austrians with loans. What's going on? I spoke to an Italian Member who says that today's official Italy without the regions has a debt of €1904 billion. 1,904 billion! There's no community yet, no region in it. How high the outsourced debt is, says the Italian MP, Tremonti cannot answer. It is estimated that it is between 600 and 900 million €. [[Call: Billions]] If we don't get there immediately – immediately! – Pull the emergency brake and the Chancellor does not immediately take action and finally make use of his veto right, then I do not know when we do it. I really ask you, Federal Chancellor: Work for the Austrian interests! Quit that madness, because, as you see, all the experts are right today. It is not as it was described by the ÖVP, we are very constructive. Go a common way with us! I'll give you a brochure now so you can see how you can do it all so that you can have the solutions. That's the book plan, that's the summary. You can download the long version from the homepage. [[Under the approval of the BZÖ, the speaker Federal Chancellor Faymann presents a brochure.]] I hope that you will finally go into yourself and that you will really make acts for the Austrian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14583	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schickhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14604	Of course, we Socialists primarily represent the interests of the Austrians. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would like us to work together for stability in Europe, for economic growth in Europe and, above all, for social peace and employment in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need stability in the euro area, and it is true that there are two ways to deal with it. As a European Community, we can try to save countries from pleite in a concerted action, to support them, and, ultimately, to make the risk of course, to be controlled. We're under arrest. I can only give right to those who think that a business is really not going to be with the Greeks. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Do you believe?]] I also believe that this liability risk is there. Of course, it would have been better for me personally if we didn't have to take over these liabilities. But the risk of liability to avoid an uncontrolled pleite remains calculable for Austria. It's 30 billion to 20 years, one and a half billion a year. That's huge, there's a risk, but I think in a concerted action, we can avoid that this risk is going to be staggering. The second alternative: I would like to know if we already openly assess the risks and say what there can be for problems, and if that is also clear to the people that we are also describing the scenarios of the pleite, ultimately an uncontrolled pleite. Of course, one can talk about a controlled balance, but an uncontrolled pleite, as you ask: That is to say, we do not support Greece, we do not support Spain, nor do we support Italy when it comes to problems. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: What does “when problems arise ”?]] This ultimately means that from today to tomorrow, whole countries will no longer be able to pay, they will no longer be able to pay their salaries. This leads to a follow-up in these countries, i.e. the savings of people there are gone. Imagine what this means for social peace in large states such as Italy, Spain and Greece! I think it is still better to make every attempt to keep this euro zone stable, to avoid these risks and to make concerted effort in the interests of the people of Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Of course, it is not enough simply to adopt savings programmes. We need economic growth, that is, we need investment again, even in these weak countries. And that is why, I believe, it must be our common mission if there is €20 billion of Structural Funds for Greece, which must be collected, that we should also use these funds for Greece as quickly as possible and unbureaucratically so that we can create employment there again, boost economic growth, and thus give people the opportunity to maintain themselves and their own state. We also need new resources, and this is clear, in addition to the Structural Funds which we are using accordingly. The financial transaction tax is very central to the fact that we can also put these growth impulses, which Europe needs, in line with them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] And the third dimension – I know that it is often difficult to understand for the liberals – is the peace project Europe and social peace. Europe, and there is the question of whether this is quite optimal – if the reform package for Greece were to carry social-democratic manuscript, it would probably look different – the Greeks demand that the officials who already had to give up 20 percent of their salary in 2009 do not pay again at 20 percent of their salary. I do not know what Mr Neugebauer would say, it would only be possible to discuss more than 5 per cent in Austria. In France, the tax on property has now been decided. € 300 000 per year Earning means having to pay 3 percent wealth tax. In Greece we now also demand a solidarity levy from those who earn €12,000 – but not in the month, but in the year. And if you ask a people, a nation so much, you have to give him a perspective somewhere, that it can come out again, that it does not lose its savings and that its state is simply sent uncontrolled into the pleite. I therefore believe that we should work together for stability, growth, employment and social peace, in the interests of Austria and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14678	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14700	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Schickhofer, what you have now said as a general objective is completely out of dispute. But that's probably just the point in these hours and days. If you are to be informed of the new developments in Germany, in Brussels, in France in a little bit of a minute, then we feel – and that was also to be felt from your comments, Mr. Federal Chancellor, I would like you to acknowledge – that the situation is a serious one. There's no room for polemics, for party politics. And I think that, for example, the comments made by Mr Krainer and many other speeches have reflected this. It is this summit on which it is concerned that has already been postponed. It is not a good signal to the financial markets to have to postpone such a thing at all. A second shift is now obvious from the table. On the other hand, it has probably been said that there will be no decision there about the leverage effect, about the so-called lifting of the EFSF, this instrument – 440 billion base volume – I say now. European Council and European inadequacies go hand in hand. This is a sober and, as I said, certainly serious analysis. Mr Bucher! In the next week, there may be another summit. Maybe Consider Once again, you will have your parliamentary decision-making in this direction. No one here has taken the wisdom for himself, no one has a patent solution. It's about choosing the lower evil. If there are only two options, choose the lower evil. Our principle should continue to be to act, of course, in the interests of Austria and to choose or favour the solution which, from today's point of view, is less damaging to taxpayers. It is clear that history will not be free for us, and that is not just about Greece. Part of the uncertainty comes from the self-confidence that we did not have to experience any kind of Lehman pleas, just three years ago, and no one here was involved in any way. There has not only been a bank's argument, but a world financial system has almost crashed, something that Trichet now paints as a threat to the wall again, shortly before he retires. We must avoid that. So, no one wants, I think, to give banks something undeserved, but the consequences – respice fine! – should already be considered. Some of Austria's positions, and for this purpose this urgent question serves from my point of view, but already crystallize itself, then respectable are, I believe, at very objective level, Mr. Krainer, occasion for discussion between us. If you're talking about the capitalization of banks, then I have to say, of course we have to go with this. But you see the variant of not using participation capital at this time, but voting capital. We see this differently, especially because the technology of participation capital has proved to be successful because there is a framework here and we can take further steps here. A piece of ideology may also be there. I do not wish to have a banking discussion for this country. But yes, it will come to the point that we are very likely to prefer Basel III here and say that 9 percent of nuclear capital we do not want only then and then, but very, very soon, and of course also in Austria. If the Federal Chancellor here puts this into space, what is said in Germany, what the Fed has said some time ago in the USA: Let's consider seeing the banking sector more differentiated, what the retail banks in Austria are doing very well and well, the core business, that's the one, but the investment banking business is the other, and that's different to evaluate and perhaps to structure different!, then I think the experience must lead us to new thinking approaches here. – So much about bank security. Austria is well equipped. I hear from informed circles that a recapitalisation of our banking area could cost 9 percent Tier 1 capital from €3.5 to €4 billion in target. This is within the framework, Mr. Federal Chancellor. That's how we're gonna be on foot. By the way, if the former vice chancellor and finance minister Androsch in a television discussion sitting next to a top banker in Austria can say that Austria's banks are capitalised with 1 to 2 percent equity, then I would ask our banking sector either to take a stand against it or to do something to combat it. Second issue: Process in terms of haircut, in terms of leverage effect EFSF. The lever effect EFSF, Günter Stummvoll has already commented on this for the ÖVP Group: Yes to a flexibilization, but in the context and in measure. We are following the international discussion here, and that is what it should be. Two comments to the end, or maybe three. First: In this context, Austria should perhaps not forget its homework. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We can't judge the triple A and its value high enough. We pay €8 billion a year for our interest rates and have the Triple A. Belgium, which is comparable to Austria, has the AA+, the nearest lower level. If we had to pay the Belgian interest rate, we would not pay 8 billion, but almost 12 billion euros a year. So as much as this would cost us one step – this time for the parent book. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Federal Chancellor! You have rightly said that the budgetary consolidation – 3.2 percent, Maastricht – has already made sense. This is also worth living money. Finally, let us not forget the homework! Two comments on the leadership role of Germany and France – one of the more convincing and convincing Europeans in this area: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union has always gone well when Germany and France have assumed their leadership in Europe – from the beginning – and this is still true today. It rarely goes well when 27 players try to agree on such issues. There is already a need for executives, as already the German Chancellor, the French President – of course Van Rompuy, Barroso. [[Abg. Scheibner: But your own opinion is not forbidden!]] [[Abg. Bucher: But it's about our money!]] Take the Lead, Leadership is in demand here. One last comment: Federal Chancellor! You don't need any advice from me, but you still get one. I believe it is always better if a self-confident and strong government comes from itself to Parliament, informs Parliament and the opposition, does not allow itself to be caught up in some peculiar urgent questions before Parliament and, in particular, does not have to hold special meetings in the room. [[Call: That's right.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] An active information from Parliament – tomorrow in the main committee – if there are summit results, as soon as possible, I would like you to do so and expect a little bit of it too.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14774	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14795	Mr President. High house! Mr Bartenstein, you wish for an active information policy. But there's one interesting thing: The only criticism that your side of the government partner – apart from the question of participation capital or the nationalization of the banks – was that Mr Lopatka – State Secretary a.D. – accused Mr Krainer that he had disturbed the public by bringing to the public the talks that took place behind the scenes about a lift of the EFSF. – So to inform so much about the openness and honesty of the wish. But let's go a little further. You think that's all right. The only criticism that is being practised is that it is said to the public that it is planned to lift up 450 billions of 2 trillions. That's uninteresting. You're worried about the public. This should be said to the public in retrospect. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: To play a non-paper to the public has criticized Lopatka!]] – So to play a problem to the public, that is criticized? [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: A non-paper!]] That's not information, but information is only to spread non-progandistically prepared and beautiful through government organs or ads? What's information about that? – So information is probably the disclosure of problems, because this should actually concern the public. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's where everything fits together. All the speeches that have now come from red and black go in this direction: don't give any information, spread a few agonys and prevent people from even discussing them. For example, the contribution by Colleague Muttonen was also very interesting: A million jobs in Austria are involved in Greece's aid. One million jobs? So I don't know what we're exporting to Greece. I think our export volume to Greece is €300 million or something like that. If I summarize the argument made by Mr Krainer, I can quote Jean-Claude Juncker, his legendary statement of last week: A European war is more expensive than the rescue shield. – If you don't want to discuss at all, you tell people: Children, pay, pay, pay! If you don't pay, there's war – and that's terrible. He didn't say who was going to wage the war. We have discussed whether perhaps Liechtenstein will be the aggressor because it is evil because it is then in this zone, but we do not know. This is what is argued here, and then it is said that we should not be populist, we should consider something in peace and taking all things into account; we do not think, we sit back and wait for what comes out of this summit – something else I have not heard so far. Because it's so bad, I'll bring the numbers to what's happened so far, what people have done: So we have these 2.5 or 2.7 billion originally bilateral aid for Greece. So far, we have some 28.7 billion liability from the existing EFSF with interest and costs. We discussed – but we have not yet decided – the ESM connection fund with a further approximately 20 billion. - I only give back the Austrian numbers. – The National Bank has taken over around 5 billion Greek government bonds. We have a fair liability of about €11 billion from the European Central Bank balance sheet TARGET – that is simply the European balance sheet deficit compensation system. [[Call the FPÖ:Na Bravo!]] There is, in fact, a misappropriation of some €358 billion, i.e. TARGET demands against the PIGS countries. We have a three-percent share of liability to the ECB – if we base ourselves on the inconsistency of these claims from the TARGET settlement system, 11 billion will be left alone. These are the orders of magnitude, and now is thought of the leverage and told the people that liability does not change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] – But you cannot sign this seriously, Mr Bartenstein. So if I'm lifting insurance technically and instead of a total risk – as it was planned – taking over the 20 percent super risk – the five-fold leverage would be the insurance against 20 percent default; that is, I only take over the top 20 percent, but I take over five times as often as I do with the other – so I'm at least at least at risk – we say now: at least – because that I have a zero yield, a total default in a bond for which I'm liable is very unlikely. I usually have between 50, 60 or 70 percent in a state bankruptcy. But if I assure the 20 percent who are actually at risk, then I'm really threatened with total failure. I dare say one thing, Mr State Secretary, Mr Bartenstein – the Federal Chancellor is no longer here –: There is no mandate for such acceptances of liability by the last election to the representative assembly in which we sit here. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States. Stadler.]] People did not vote for this in October 2008. No one knew that at the time, nor did anyone know it. So we cannot answer this with the mandate you have here. There's talk about some little bits in our budget about real peanuts. If you only sum up the sums I have mentioned here in mind, then you are in an area of 50, 60 or 70 billion – billions, billions. So that's the total expenditure of the state in a year. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer:... actually one?]] - What? Who? - The risk of my way? [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: How do you actually estimate the regular risk of your path...?]] I haven't mentioned a way to you at all. So what way do you mean? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] Before I even talk about a way: I think the only thing we can honestly demand from the government is that it either goes out and says: Without us – Veto!; or the government says: We can't answer this anymore, we're relinquishing – new elections!; or the government says: We cannot answer this and put this essential question to the people in a vote! – Something else can not exist, because this debt bubble we are going on means, of course, that – and some speakers have said it indirectly – control of European finances by a board of directors, no longer by parliaments, means an economic government, means a loss of budgetary sovereignty and a major loss of fiscal sovereignty, and it means a total revision of our self-understanding and our constitution. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Therefore, in short, there is the following request from us: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e14961	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15052	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15074	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bartenstein, you have referred to the urgent request as “in its own right” – I do not think it is peculiar – but at the same time criticised the fact that the Federal Government does not make statements on its own. This would be expected, especially in such a difficult situation, and for us as decision-makers, it would also be exciting to see a federal government coming here and saying: There is now something about us, perhaps we do not know what it will be – we have heard it today – but we want to discuss it with the Members. There would have been two days now when the Federal Government itself made a statement here and we had a comprehensive discussion of all the conditions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein:... Main Committee!]] . But I believe that every Member here has the right to speak and get the information, not just the delegates in the main committee. This may be a difference in the concept of democracy, but I am quite certain of that. It was unfortunate for us to hear that there is no Austrian line because it would be important. Then you always hear of these papers – non-papers and so on –... This is always the problem of Austria's foreign policy, but especially in EU policy, that one has no own line, but is always looking for non-papers, so that one can find out about how the structures could be with the great ones and where we can agree. We have seen that in the past. But if we were to develop a clear line together with Parliament, to what the interests of Austria are – I have never heard that at all: what are the interests of Austria that you should represent in Brussels? – If you were to then also put junkims and at least threaten with a veto to enforce these Austrian interests, the interests of Austrian taxpayers, then would be very, very much won, Mr State Secretary; please also direct this to Mr Bundeskanzler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] That there is no Austrian position, we have already been interested in the budget today, but it seems that this is also true in EU policy, for: What do we read in the “Kurier ” today? – "The European Heads of Government have been massively drawn over the table by the banks in Greece's aid. At the expense of taxpayers.’ Who says that? – Not the editor, nor any colleague of the opposition, but as an envoy Minister of Finance Maria Fekter. She then blames Federal Chancellor Faymann for having taken part in this expensive bank gift in July, which is now apparently corrected again. She'll say the same thing. Since the Heads of Government have made such a nonsense, the Finance Ministers will now correct it on the weekend. It also gives an interesting insight into how this works with the non-papers – and that's the problem if you don't know what you want two days before. She herself says that the banking association has in advance adopted a paper, a non-paper, which has been submitted to the Heads of Government, who may not be able to grasp what is inside it 24 hours before and then disappeared from them – also with Austrian consent. Mrs. Finanzminister only said that the head of government – head of government Faymann – “was there,” he said: He may not have known what he did, but he voted in favour – apparently against her opinion. Are there any such important decisions that may lead to the Austrian taxpayer falling to the head of billions and aberbillions, no vote in the Federal Government? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Council of Ministers!]] We have nothing of it if you throw each other the balls again and say that one is to blame, the other is to blame. Please, these are sandbox games in the kindergarten, but not worth an Austrian government, which, in a difficult crisis situation, should also represent the interests of Austria towards the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] At last make it, or take off! Finally, we will be happy to help you develop a clear line together with us, but we will also be able to implement it consistently! How many times have you told my colleague Bucher that this is all nonsense, and that you know everything better? – And with every summit and every measure, everything is done now. Today, I have heard – also from the ÖVP – that you now have to make a difference between business bank and investment bank. That's what we said two years ago. We were told that it was nonsense, that was nothing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] As far as the Haircut, as it is now so beautiful, is concerned, we were told months ago that this will be the last consequence that will not be avoidable. – No, for God’s sake, all this will not come!, it was said by your side. – And now, because it brings in the French and the Germans accordingly, we also consider it possible. The next step will be – as we have said – that it is likely that the euro will not be maintained in such a way in all euro countries. As we already hear, we already have information – and you probably too – that the transition to the old currency is already being prepared in the strong euro area countries. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the things that happen, but they seem to pass you completely. It would be necessary for you to finally enter into the dialogue with Parliament and with the people and not look where you can agree with the others so that you can only reap friendly faces there. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It is about consistently introducing an Austrian line and, if it is necessary, also using a veto, that the speculators and banks, which have earned many, many years in this system, socialize their losses.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15166	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15187	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Fact is – and I think that is what every Member of this House who is a little bit on the move with the citizens – the people are afraid of money. They are afraid of their savings and start investing. This can be seen in the numerous conversations. They're giving themselves little things. Recently I met the owner of a small company that manufactures fences and gates, and he said his company had never run as well as now. - No wonder. The banks themselves complain of savings deposits. In a few days, World Day is, and I believe that the happy messages, which have always come from the banks around this time, will not be heard this time. I think this is also a good thing, because the banks can take to the kandare no one better than the customer himself – the government can't at all. To give up savings in favour of investment means primary money losses for banks – and if this continues, they will have to consider something. It remains that the citizen is afraid of money. And who's to blame? – Of course, the evil opposition – who else? Those who warn, describe the scenes that could play – and get right now – are as if they were just talking about this crisis. What did they tell us? – Novotny in the Financial Committee: Listen Please stop drawing such scenarios, it'll only get worse! – Such nonsense, that has never heard at all. So we who warn are those who are talking about the crisis; not the banks are guilty, not the speculators, not the Greeks, Portuguese, Italians – or anyone else – who cannot handle the money and speculate on our costs and costs of taxpayers. They are, but not the opposition, not the so-called evil populists, to whom perhaps even colleague Krainer, who once said in a surprisingly open interview, can no longer go on. One question, Mr Krainer: What happened to you? Have you failed due to the ongoing warnings of the opposition, or have you received a light on the journeys through Europe that you have addressed? [[call to the FPÖ]] – I don’t think both are the case. I only think of one thing: They've gotten mellow in the stomach. This feeling – I'm giving you this now on the trip – was important to us. In the banks where we have granted loans, it has always been said: If the stomach doesn't fit, don't give the money. Those were some hard decisions, but they always proved to be correct afterwards. This We've been feeling for a long time. I'm glad you're part of this round now. Mr. Lopatka! Why can't you go out with a veto? Why can't you even prove backbone and say: If there is a real risk of delay here, Austria will not play along. The people would thank you, and more backbone would be asked by the politicians in the government. That is what we demand of you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: You are in favour of letting Greece go! Is that right? That's what you suggest!]] Now the liability framework is to be raised from €440 billion to €2.5 trillion. 2.5 trillion €, that's so easy and it's easy to write. A little to illustrate: If you put 500 € packages on one another, it would amount to over 600 000 meters. This is about seventy times the height of Mount Everest. I'm saying this to illustrate. No one can start anything with such sums. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That doesn't tell me at all! Seventy times Mount Everest?]] -No, just the height. Yes, you can't imagine that either, Mrs Glawischnig. But that's a fact. It's 600 000 meters in height when you put 500-€-shine over each other – 2.5 trillion €. - No, that's the truth. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But you need a better comparison!]] Believe me! That's the truth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's a comparison of how much money that is. The fact is, a bubble is created here... – Yes, that's it. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: But you said 600 000 meters! Mount Everest is bigger!]] I said fifty to sixty times the height of Mount Everest. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: How often is this the big glockner?]] – Calculate it! Nothing but a bubble is produced here. It's also not a balloon anymore, but a hot air balloon, so dangerous to the last. And I don't understand one thing either... – Mr Wittmann! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Let's do something from the number!]] We'll be happy to talk about that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Why should not a platform of the audit courts control these financial instruments? I don't understand at all. Finally, the people have to decide on things that exceed such an extent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15320	Mr Ing. Lugar is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15341	Mr President. High house! Many of you can certainly remember the introduction of the euro. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] At that time – the preparations date back to 1992 and 1993 – there were very, very many experts who doubted that a euro could work without a common government. That is, a common currency area without a common government is an experiment. That's what you knew at the time. At the time, it was also very much doubted whether countries such as Greece or Italy had lost something in the euro area. There have been some considerations. Many experts have assembled, and in the end, the convergence criteria have been invented, which should have only one purpose: If one cannot put pressure on the countries directly because there is no common government, there are at least criteria which apply equally to all. That was this famous 60 percent total debt of GDP and this 3 percent re-indebtedness. These were the criteria to be applied to all. And what happened? – Greece was the first to violate it and instead of reporting it and taking appropriate steps, it simply lied and cheated. Greece has simply supplied false figures and has over years pretended to be on a stable path. We didn't know this until yesterday, not only since 2010, when this crisis broke out, no, we already knew it in 2006. The Commission knew and did nothing in 2006. And now Greece is so indebted that it does not just exceed these convergence criteria of 60 percent, it is even 150 percent. You have to imagine that! That is more than double what we considered stable at the time. These 60 percent do not come from anywhere. The experts who assembled at the time looked at how to establish stable conditions. And in history it is seen that 60 to 70 percent historically considered is about the border where it becomes critical. That only depends on the interest rate level. That is, 60 to 70 percent at a low interest rate, as we currently have it, is still acceptable, but not anymore. We need these convergence criteria. And that's why, if we want to save the euro – and that's exactly what we want – then the question is whether it is still to be saved. I say: No, he can't be saved like that. It is not to be saved if we leave countries in the euro that cannot meet these criteria – not that they do not want to, but Greece cannot comply with them. Greece is hopelessly overdebted. That you can help a country solve a debt problem with even more debt – I think you too will understand that this does not work. At the moment, we're pouring out every crisis hole with money. That's what we do. And then you hear from the government: We're just doing this because we want to get some time. The question is: What are we getting time for? It'll break up if we keep going. We don't need time to get there. On the contrary: It's better the bang is coming now than he's coming in a few years and then gets a lot worse. I have heard again and again, even here today, that Germany has the lion share. I heard it yesterday on the subway when two discussed: What are we worried about? The Germans are wearing the biggest chunks. - That's not true. That's not right. We carry just as much as the Germans, just as much and not a little less, not in absolute numbers, but relatively per capita, per taxpayer. This is the point. If we are then asked to cash, we will pay just as much, each of us, like the Germans. That is the point, and that is why it is also in our interest that the whole thing does not go into the pants. What have we done in the past? The whole thing is a debt problem. Secondly, it is a banking problem, a financial market problem. It is certainly not a problem that has been created by the rating agencies. The problem is simple and simply a debt problem. At the end of the year. A comparison to be made here: We have a veritable debt problem, and this is similar to a racing horse. Imagine a race horse that is firmly baptized – you know what's going on there – and always among the first. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I have no idea what to give racing horses!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Dice sugar!]] It is therefore always well baptized, which, of course, is against the animal welfare regulations and the other provisions, but it is made and the race horse is always at the front. After many years, after the racing horse has brought in a lot of money, the problems come. And now we can choose it: Either we continue to do so and accept that one day the horse falls dead, because we need to do more and more to maintain the services, or we stop the doping and accept that we will not be among the first. It is precisely this question that we have to ask ourselves today. If we want to use even more money in our economic system, do we want to baptize the states with even more debt, so that the party can continue, or do we slowly start to clean up, to accept that the party is over, that the debt cannot grow into all eternity? This courage is missing a little bit. The courage is missing to say: Okay, it was nice. We have lived on pump for many decades now – we, too, Austria. We're not much better than everyone else. We all lived on pump. There is a world religion that not only invented the socialists, but also helped others to make debts, which means making debts, not only in bad times, but simply always – debt over debt, and with these debts prosperity is precipitated. And one day these debts have to be repaid. Right here we stand. And now the question is: Let us let the party go on to make the pain that will come even greater, or let us say: Stop! Get out! We're cleaning up now!Unknown term type: "%s".? The financial problems that have arisen have not least been caused by levers. We know these delivery stories from the banks, we know the levers applied to hedge funds, we know the problems that have arisen. And what are we doing now? – We are all seriously discussing the matter of hailing ourselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] What does that mean? What does it mean when I take money and lift it? – Nothing but to increase my risk. And if I'm talking about a lever 5 that's been remembered here, then I've got the five-fold risk. That means the probability of losing money is five times as high. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's total nonsense!]] – Mr Kogler said that was stupid. We have already heard today that an insurance model has been planned for which a state issues a bond. Let's say Italy has a 10 billion-dollar bond. The rescue shield guarantees for the € 2 billion, i.e. for the 20 percent, and in the event of the failure, the rescue shield takes over these € 2 billion to 100 percent. That is, I have used €2 billion, but I also take the full risk of 20 percent failure, which means a 100% risk. Can you follow me? [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: How was that at the beginning?]] That means it's a lever of 5. That's a risk I'm making five times, and that's exactly what it's doing here. I could go here now and say it's all very easy, there's a painless solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It's very simple, I could say. But there is no painless solution! What we can think about is: When will the pain come, how strong will it be, and who will it meet? This is the first variant. The second variant you want is to delay the pain. He will therefore be bigger and will meet the wrong people, namely the taxpayers. Now we still have the chance to meet all those who deserved it. In one, two years it will be too late. In one, two years, only more of the taxpayers will be left, and that is exactly what you want, namely finally to cut out those who have now earned their money, and that is not, in my view, socially democratic. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: What about the lever? I didn't understand!]] This is big capitalist, and I don't think you want it. But you're doing it. You're part of this game. Perhaps you don't know it is, but in the end, you've privatized the profits and socialized the losses, and the taxpayer will pay it. I can only hope for one thing, and you probably believe that, too, Federal Chancellor: The next government, which has to do with the atrocities you commit today, will hopefully take you to the responsibility. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I hope you're then reduced your pension to the minimum pension. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 17.52
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15473	Mr Linder is now speaking. - Please. He's not in the hall. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. First: Debates of the European Parliament Veto now, Federal Chancellor! Please ask those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Johannes Hübner, colleagues on the prevention of a European transfer union and the rejection of a European economic government. If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:53:10]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15540	I'm taking the negotiations on the 1st. Agenda item again. Mrs Silhavy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15565	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! After the debate that has just been held, it is now a bit difficult to return to everyday life, to the budget, whose focus is the stability factor. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] That is a good thing for the previous discussion. The Federal Estimate 2012 indicates relevant economic data. Above all, labour market data have already been mentioned positively several times today and are also evidence that Austria has mastered the crisis better than most other European countries. I repeat now, but it seems to me significant, especially in view of the discussion that has already taken place today, that one of the essential factors that we have handled the crisis better than other states, was or is our social state principle, which has managed to achieve the domestic purchasing power to strengthen and maintain stability, thus stabilising the reduction of demand on transnational markets. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It seems to me that it is important to remember this because I want to call to mind those colleagues, who have said it, who, when it comes to our budget and the reorganisation of the budget, are the first to announce expenditure-side reorganisations and then again and again about cuts in social state benefits. Three minutes do not allow me to go into the pension problem in detail, for example, but I would really like to point out the debate contribution made by Mr Öllinger, who made it very clear where the problems were partly caused, because we wanted jobs out of the public service, and because you wanted them out, especially in the years 2000 to 2006, and thus created special arrangements, so to speak, which you have freed yourself from employment. I believe that this should be said very openly, instead of producing itself today and what one has done, what one has called for himself to scourge here and to represent as a negative consequence. The purchasing power is an essential point for tourism and the leisure industry. In this area, of course, the income of domestic guests is of particular importance. We have seen that German guests in particular have been left out and that domestic demand has been a very important factor in the tourism and leisure industry. In this sense, I also welcome the conclusion of the payroll of the metal industry and hope that it will serve as a model for other industries, because at the end of the day it is the purchasing power that remains in our own country. Perhaps one more word on this. I think we all agree that it is good for people to earn more, but in conclusion it is still about – and that is why the debate is a bit – what the budget will be designed in the future. We believe, of course, that the factor of work must be relieved. It cannot be assumed that always performance-related income must be maintained for all household benefits, and that non-profit income and assets do not make a fair contribution. I think France has proved with the rich tax that it is necessary and possible. We are talking about amounts of € 1 million and not € 250 000 as in France. I think that if France can go this way, then we should also have so much courage, ladies and gentlemen, especially with regard to the coalition partner, and seriously talk about the fact that assets from €1 million can make a fair contribution to our state budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15631	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15652	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps a few more words about our colleague, Mr Unterlander, first of all. I think that it is relatively reasonable to claim the exclusive right of representation in the field of art and culture for your group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:You don't have any more!]] I think all parties represented in the House know about the importance of art and culture for this country. [[Call the FPÖ: But they hide it well, the knowledge!]] There are probably a few differences here: What is art? What is culture? And above all: What is to be promoted? [[Abg. New builder: This is the power of the holy collectors!]] But I'll come to the promotions then. Ladies and gentlemen! In her budgetary speech yesterday, the Minister of Finance made a very clear point of setting priorities under the 2012 budget. In addition to the, I believe, undisputed and indispensable objectives of budgetary adjustment, the reduction of the deficit and the design of a more efficient, but also fairer tax system, it has of course also pointed out the important investments for the future. We need to save today to have budgetary room tomorrow and to secure the opportunity for future generations to take their own ways. That's an hour's commandment. But – and that is what she said – you have to save at the right places, with an eye and taking into account future-related fields. These fields are – and this has already been said a few times today – family, science and research. For me, it is also culture in a way. Art and culture reflect social debates. They are areas of friction in the debate on reality and therefore also contribute to political will-building. For me, therefore, promotions are not subsidies in the classical sense in art and culture, but they are to be understood as investments as investments for the spiritual development and the mental horizon of people. Cultural education opens up new worlds and perspectives and also contributes to a more democratic view. The acceptance of human beings for investments in the field of art and culture is very high. According to a survey from Upper Austria a few years ago, 80 percent of people say that art and culture are important to them. About 60 percent consider the funding appropriate, for about 16 percent they are even too low. So there is a great deal of appreciation for art and culture. There is also a strong pride on the cultural nation of Austria, which should also be reflected in the budget. However, in order to maintain this attitude of the Austrian population, it is of great importance that taxpayers' money flows not primarily into the system, but into the programme, onto the stage. Art and culture must be noticeable and visible to people. This also means that art must not be centrally limited to Vienna, but also reach people in periphery. The countries make a very large and important contribution and are also supported by the Federal Government. The fact that weights can and should be considered is also in the nature of the matter. All in all, it can be said that art and culture have a high priority in Austria, and this is expressed in the budget with all the tightness of the financial room. A warm thanks to the Minister of Finance and Education!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15719	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15740	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are now making a wide range of art and culture towards agriculture. As an agricultural speaker of the FPÖ, I have, of course, been concerned with the agricultural issue and the statements of the Minister of Finance on the agricultural sector. There have already been some remarks on the agricultural sector, but I believe that only at the end of the day, when it actually comes to implementing the budget, will we know how much money is left for farmers and how much cuts farmers are finally affected. In the budget speech, I have noticed a passage in which the Minister of Finance refers to rural schools, to agricultural and forestry schools. I was surprised that she was concerned about this and mentioned that there was a massive increase in staff costs in this area. This would not be even more striking if the Court of Auditors did not destroy the Austrian agricultural and forestry schools a few weeks ago – and I really say: destructively! – had criticised in his report. The Court of Auditors notes with regard to the Austrian agricultural and forestry schools that the costs related to each student in agricultural schools are much more than twice as high as in comparable other vocational schools. The reasons, according to the Court of Auditors, were “not comprehensible. ” The Court of Auditors notes an absolute confusion of competence between the federal government and the country in the field of agricultural and forestry schools. As far as controlling is concerned: absolute misrepresentation. There are a wide range of qualifications among agricultural teachers in the individual Länder with the most unwise allowances, misuse of well-trained and qualified teachers for non-school – but non-school – activities and serious shortcomings in the organisation of a location concept; not to mention long-term planning in the school sector in view of the declining numbers of students. As has been said, the Court of Auditors' criticism is devastating. I do not understand why the Minister of Finance is increasing the budget, especially in view of the fact that the number of students is falling. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] An increase in the budget for agricultural and forestry schools should only be justified if these maladministrations are finally eliminated. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am not even talking about the headmasters; they run in the agricultural and forestry schools in such a way that, as the only qualification, one needs a long-term EIA or Farmer's Federal membership. This is a playground exclusively for the ÖVP, and federal and national competence are clearly regulated in this area. We will continue to deal intensively with the agricultural education system and the headmaster's occupation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now still further to the budget: General knowledge is that the Minister of Agriculture does not support the Chancellor in terms of advertising. The budget presented does not even reflect the cost of self-providing in media co-operations. They are not even presented! If this is the transparency promoted and proposed by SPÖ and ÖVP, it is more than disappointing. We want to know and also put in the budget what media cooperations are made to achieve positive reporting. We have also tabled a parliamentary request to bring this to the fore. The criticism of effective expenditure on farmers, which may at best remain the same, has already been reduced. What has not yet been appropriate is the current management of domestic agriculture. We really want to have been shown in the budget in which areas are saved. Neither the Ministry nor the Chambers of Agriculture and the whole association is saved around it, and as mentioned earlier, the budget will be further increased in spite of the falling number of students. However, we will also address a parliamentary question to the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Finance as to why the budget will increase the pressure costs of the Ministry of Agriculture by 60 percent this year. There is also no clear explanation as to why the costs of travel abroad, foreign allowances and representation tasks are greatly increased compared to the previous year. We will also ask why so many posts in the budget under the title “Work Services by Third parties” have been greatly increased. We want to know what is behind these points because we fear that this will only finance the Minister of Agriculture's own PR. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. New farmers: The farmers are hiding behind the paper!]] In our view, with the present agricultural budget, you will only present a shift of money, into a bloated administration unit, to the Ministry of Agriculture, where there have been increases, to the Chamber of Agriculture, to the associated associations and to these agricultural schools, which are not organized and not coordinated. [[Call the ÖVP:It's out!]] For this budget there can be no consent from our side if it remains that way. [[Abg. Oillinger: You're right!]] We hope, however, that you can still think about yourself in the Federal Government, really make clear cuts in the administration and get more money to the farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15833	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is a real farmer's representative!]] [[Abg. Rädler: But the farmers didn't deserve it!]] [[Further calls at the ÖVP and the Abg. New builder.]] [[Call the ÖVP: No, I don't trust the Linzians!]] [[Abg. Jannach: Repair the driving license law! It can't be!]] [[Abg. May. Honey: (just standing in the direction of the president) Are we waiting a little?]] [[Further calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs Schatz is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15935	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I notice that all of you, according to contributions, are interested in art and culture and agriculture, which I am 71 years old. The speaker in this debate on division 20, work, will say, in concrete terms, on the issue of labour market policy. [[Call the FPÖ:Are you rich?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know, because of the unfortunately revised forecasts, that economic growth will decline next year and that the corresponding impact on the Austrian labour market will have. It is to be feared that the number of unemployed will rise again in Austria. They are responding to these forecasts in your budget and raising the funds for passive labour market policies, i.e. money available for unemployment and emergency aid. This means that there is more money for unemployment and emergency aid, because it is expected that there is more unemployment. However – and this is the criticism that I would like to make quite clearly – the resources for active and activating labour market policies are falling, i.e. those spent on training and qualification. Unfortunately, no one is present today who has looked more closely at this chapter, for otherwise it would be argued that the funds do not fall as much as is apparent from this budget, because there will still be a resolution of reserves, funds from the ESF et cetera, et cetera. Nevertheless, the resources for training and training for unemployed people are falling, even though all of this is still mentioned. I think this is very unfortunate, because apart from the fact that the actual figures are falling, it is also true that the inflation and the rising wages of employees in this area will make the money available less valuable once again. The lower budget, that is to say, reduced in value, per single unemployed person will then be reduced once again. If there are more unemployed people to whom this budget needs to be allocated, there will be less money available for the individual unemployed for training and qualification measures for years. And this is very distressing. Ladies and gentlemen! They simply don't understand that active and activating labour market policy is education policy. [[Abg. Neubauer: But you mean only the government parties! We understand!]] This is an investment in the future! All that is now being invested in training in unemployed people is profitable for us, in just a few years. I would like to give you a brief explanation of what these reduction measures mean quite specifically. I recently visited a labour market policy project in which young people were unemployed until 24. Your age will be given the chance to re-enrol a primary school degree. Within a year, a group of ten young people will be prepared to reach a degree under intensive care. They have a success rate of over 60 percent. Such a training site is currently costing about €13 000. There is now a new programme which is currently being negotiated in the course of an Article 15a agreement with the countries which is re-translating in this area. In the future, only €6 000 will be available for such a training site, which is half of the resources actually needed. What does that mean? – This means that this concrete project, which is very successful in rural areas, will no longer exist in the future. It will only be possible for large providers in central areas to offer such high school diplomas. We all know that young people who have not managed to get to education degrees in the course of our education system need intensive care and not just a course in which to put them in. – All of this means your cuts in active labour market policy. Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't invest in this area, you can afford opportunities. It's not just that we can afford political opportunities, but you'll take young people's chances if you don't later compensate for what the education system previously for by active and active labour market policy. What is available here is very unfortunate, and I hope that we in the Committee will have the opportunity to make some changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e15988	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16009	Mr President. High house! I will try to deal with three areas of the future in a short time. It is about research, science and the environment. To the research budget: In the sauna-clause of the Federal Government in Loipersdorf it was announced to provide additional €80 million in offensives. I have looked at the budget of colleagues Mitterlehner and Bures, where we find just 16 million plus. So where's the rest? I would have liked to know. And even that is only available on paper. We know that the estimate is patient and in the financial statements it is likely to be a fraction of it. How to achieve the original objective of a research and development ratio of 4 percent of GDP? That was the target for 2013. Then one has revised to 2020, and now we only have more than 3.76 percent. It is simply impossible to explain how this is to be done, even in accordance with the Federal Financial Framework. You have to be a voodoo artist to understand. Point two: Science. We discussed study fees yesterday. My comment is also addressed to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: They do not seem to believe in the euro anymore. If Mrs Fekter already announces a billion in the old currency, i.e. in Schilling, she seems to have no confidence in the euro. Finally, this is an increase in universities, because we don't need university billions in Schilling, we need them in euros. We miss that too. Next point: research strategy. There are a number of points in the government programme that you have not implemented to this day. How nice that we have the FTI strategy, but it simply lacks the concrete financial coverage for it. It's not present. The Research Finance Act was announced by Hahn, colleague Karl and Minister Däderle. To date, there is no such thing as safety in the field of research. The government programme also includes efficiency-enhancing measures, such as the pooling of the Christian Doppler laboratories. You have the government programme to update the Research Organisation Act. - Nothing happened. The development of the Research and Technology Promotion Act also stands inside. - Nothing happened. So you see, there is a standstill in these areas too. In the environmental field, it seems that you do not think so strongly about renewable energy, but rather invest abroad. The JI/CDM programme increases expenditure from € 89 million to € 182 million. That means you invest abroad, you buy yourself free. Instead of putting in place measures in the field of renewable energy and efficiency measures, creating jobs, production and value-added here in Austria, send the money abroad. A question about Seibersdorf: From 7.8 to 15.4 million € will be increased. What's in the bush? That would interest me. In the case of radiation protection, expenditure increases from 16.7 to 24.6 million €. What have you done to help finance the early warning system by those responsible for it, namely those countries operating nuclear power stations? There are no answers to this either. Write during thermal renovation They continue to generate € 100 million; 50 million for households, 50 for businesses. That's almost nothing. You know that a multiple is necessary to get through properly. The question is whether the budget figures will remain general. This is essentially just a continuation of old budgets. There is no room, there are no reserves, there is no buffer. What if something happens? If interest on government bonds increases? If the costs for the euro rescue shields explode, how are we going to experience it? If tax revenue remains below the expectations of what economic forecasts imply? If perhaps even Austria's credit quality is cancelled – Mr Bartenstein has mentioned it to cost a level less plus 4 billion? That's where I ask you: Where is the money for this budget? – It is no longer available. What remains is a glass ball budget of black and red magicians. The problem will be that the big bluff will come, and ultimately the taxpayer will have to pay. But we say: We've paid enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16051	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16072	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Very briefly: The judicial budget has the advantage that the judicial system would be profitable, partly highly profitable, if the execution agencies were calculated. This, of course, allows certain areas of movement. On the occasion, I would also like to thank you very much for having succeeded in reducing court fees to such a level that you no longer have to speak of refusal of law. It was true that because of the enormous amount of copy costs, the cost of the copies, one had to consider whether one could afford to take an insight into an act. This is clearly the limit of what is still reasonable in a rule of law. As regards the quality of regulations, norms and laws, a number of laws have recently been passed which have proved to be successful, for example in the manufacture of evidence. This regulation comes from the field of antitrust, we have made it available for all criminal law. The person who contributes significantly to bringing criminal offences through initial information and sustainable cooperation in clarifying the facts to the public, to the executive, to the security authorities and, of course, to the prosecutors and judges has a special advantage. In many cases, there are very well-woven networks, especially in economic crime, as it is hardly possible to really enter, if one does not give this incentive to the first person to give a bonus in a dangerous situation. That's how we've seen it. There are also good developments in the perspective. On the one hand, the European Law Institute – which is a European institution of universities researching European law and receiving from the Commission and other orders – has been successful in getting to Vienna. This can, of course, contribute to getting a kind of judicial-law cluster here. Mr Donnerbauer and I have also launched an initiative to reform the Austrian arbitration procedure in such a way that there will only be one instance after the arbitration, namely the Supreme Court. President Griss of the Supreme The Court of Justice has expressly declared itself ready to enforce this in the Court of Justice. The Federal Minister is also vehemently behind this project. If we succeed, we can take a good place within Europe, including what is right. This is of course also good for the economy, because fast decisions are of course important not only in the case of conflicts between Austrians, but also in the case of cross-border ones – you can go to China. This is certainly a good thing for the location Austria. I therefore believe that there are good prospects for this, and I very much hopeful of the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16104	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16127	Mr President! Mrs. Federal Minister! Deputies! It is already strange what some have done in the budget debate today to document what the ÖVP or the SPÖ or the FPÖ or anyone in this House stands for. We know about the liberals. Mr. Klubobmann is gone now. In the morning, when television was still there, he showed how he sees Europe, his great view of Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: The Lord's Head isn't here either! Look in your ranks!]] If you look a little at what the Liberals have brought in here in this House alone in this year, and this should be budgetaryly effective, then that is 9.5 billion demands by requests you have made here in the last half year. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: And the savings?]] On the other hand, you shout that the state is bankrupt. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: You also need to see our savings proposals!]] And this is the way you want to go. That's ridiculous. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Also with other parties, one should do the homework. If we are thinking of harmonizing the pension system at the railways, Mr Haberzettl, this concerns youth. This is a step into the future that we could finally make, including with regard to credibility. That's where you've been hiding for years and so on. Or also in the area of the country of Carinthia in harmonizing pensions. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: What are we talking about all the time? Put your suggestions on the table!]] These are all things that will come back sometime. We must not be surprised if the pirate parties have 10 percent. You carry a picture of this house outside that is terrifying, so that the youth today turns away from it. I've had a school group with me today. They listened to this and said afterwards: And now we're going to McDonald's, because what we've seen there can only be bad for you. I'm really looking for you: Take a little back and remember that this must also be financed! [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: That's what you're saying! You don't have a genius!]] Take an example to our young Secretary of State. As the only one, he has now shown how to make politics. He has not become one of the most popular politicians in the shortest time because he attacks the topics and does not mention them. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: We have a short debate right now!]] You're always talking. You have asylum, integration, migration on top of a pile, and you want to talk about it, and you say they should all learn German once and so on. In fact, you do not even realize that of the 600,000 people with a foreign background in Austria, the largest group of 213,000 comes from Germany. You don't care. And you can't make politics with that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore: Take a little back in your speeches and make politics like our young Secretary of State! Then you can continue to bear the designation National Council or National Councillor. But if not, my blue friends!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16260	Next speaker: Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16281	Mr President. Minister! Just a brief comment to my previous speaker: You should look at all the proposals and not only select selectively what does not fit into your mind right now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So sometimes there is a need for meaningful reading here, including in your group. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: He can't! How's he supposed to do that?]] But now to something else. Today we received the corrected version of the family federal proposal in the morning. At the first moment, I thought, well, it could be a light look. One has tried to change something after the actual proposal we received yesterday has not looked so rosy. But this expectation has just taken so long until I have looked at the numbers and seen, it has not changed at all. Even at this time, when distress and misery in families are also going on and given to us in Austria, where many live on the minimum of existence, banks and speculators are given the right and the money is thrown down to them, rather than to take account of our families. But hope dies most recently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have then looked again at what the Federal Minister has said here. She said: We come to the heart of our society, family and youth. This is a figure of 6.3 billion. – That doesn’t sound bad, but let’s see what last year was: Last year it was 6.3 billion. In the corrected version today there are 6.2 billion inside. So now we'll wait for tomorrow to see how much tomorrow comes out. We wait once from day to day to see if there are any changes or not. And if you think it's just a single subgroup, you're cheating. There are not only mistakes and errors and corrections to be made, there are in three further subgroups, in 16, 20 and 58. Let's see what's going to be next tomorrow. The statement that this is supposed to be the centrepiece is obviously once again – as we are used to – only about lip confession. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 2011: 6.3 billion, 2012: 6.2 billion. So this puss in the preparation of this budget shows once again the importance of the family in our government parties. It can't be expected that you'll just settle down here. It's not that you've settled for little things, no, it wasn't peanuts, it wasn't peanuts you've paid for, but it's actually about millions of euros. Read Once after what happened, ladies and gentlemen, and take yourself a picture of how serious this template can be. This is more like the coffee - set reading of a fortune - teller who is trying to find out something. Nothing remains in the final effect. But one thing I can guarantee you: We will take a close look at this budget and the other ways in which the government will vote here in the future, and we will certainly not tolerate this sluggish way of dealing with the family, with the future of Austria. You can rely on that!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16336	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16357	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a whole day filled with the theme of a speech that you could hear for the first time yesterday from the new Minister of Finance and where you could expect her to somehow be special, new, personal nuances in a Fi- This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. Unfortunately, I have to say that the result of this speech was anything but a highlight of parliamentaryism. I must say, in fact, it is very, very sad that a Minister of Finance in this House is unable to bring a certain quantity of analysis so that citizens also have an idea of what this House is all about. If she writes right at the beginning: “The last few years have been a stormy low: A rough wind with severe turbulence and uncertainty.”, yes, what does she want to suggest? – The crisis is a natural phenomenon? She's nothing but a storm, a natural disaster? - Don't! There are very clear indications and indications of where this storm comes from. He's made political, he's got causes in the system and he's not almost a natural phenomenon. Point one: Deregulation of financial markets has its impact. That started in the 1980s. We have the effects in this crisis in which we are now. The decline in investment in productive capital in Europe and the increase in financial speculation – these are the elements that it is about. There is a policy of deregulation behind it. Who has been responsible for this kind of policy over the last ten years? Quite clearly, the ÖVP. And it is not capable and not willing to take on its own responsibility and to acknowledge once again that this policy has failed, a policy that has gone at the expense of the majority of the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This would have been expected to become clear at last – Mr Kogler said it very well – and the debt crisis and the banking crisis are the two sides of the same medal. It is sometimes curious for the citizens if they have to think through this and find out: Okay, the states are saving those banks they pay interest for those loans they receive for public services from the same banks. This is nothing but a money-added machine between banks and states. At the same time, the worse rating that is currently happening in the States has the effect that higher interest rates must be paid to those banks. And that's actually the Curiosis: The banking system is saved with taxpayers' money and at the same time the stronger debt of the states is used to increase interest rates. This is actually the problem we are facing, and this is also a kind of political crisis and the sense crisis in Europe that we must respond to in concrete terms. I would like to mention a word: Financial transaction tax. We have a joint decision here in this House, and the Federal Chancellor – and I think most Members too – has always been committed to this at various international forums. But it is already to be questioned what Mr Cap meant here: If financial transaction tax is to be used nationally. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no mention of this by the Minister for Finance. - Point one. And second: Financial transaction tax should be a European instrument. Why? – Only then can national contributions to the EU budget be deducted. This makes sense to argue well and this would also be an answer to the problems of time because it is necessary to introduce a European tax system. – There is also a clear answer from the Minister. What does the minister say instead? – Page 36 is probably an affront for anyone who can think, for every citizen, for every citizen. “Taxation” – she says there – “successes efficiently, fairly and fairly.” – She obviously cannot read newspaper. If you take the “standard ” of 24, 25. September on property taxes in the In view of the European Union, one sees that Slovakia is final, then Czech Republic comes and in third place Austria. These are the facts, and that is why it is only right and cheap, at last at this level – that is our foreign exchange – to produce fiscal justice in this country and not to talk constantly about fair and fair taxes and to do the opposite of what the Minister of Finance has unfortunately done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16429	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16451	Mr President. The remaining member of the Federal Government! The Minister for Justice is not present either. High house! We have, of course, already heard a lot about the budget we have under discussion at today's first reading. One thing I have to say to Mr Rädler. Perhaps he is right about this – you do not know – if he has just said before that Mr. State Secretary is the only one who works in the Federal Government. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You can read that, he said it stunnedly and clearly: He is the youngest and the only one who drives the matter forward, he is the only one who saves money, he is the only one who does not need a driver, and so on and so on. Okay, Mr. Rädler, I'll give you a hand, and you'll have to discuss this internally. Mr Binder-Maier, you asked Mr Windholz earlier: Who are the service providers, who do you mean? We understand very clearly that these are all those who have a social security and pay more into the system than they get out of it. These are our service providers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Binder-Maier: But they're getting something out! Some more than they do!]] Of course, it's all about what they're getting out of. But everyone who makes a contribution is stunned and clearly a performance carrier. I think you can define that. One aspect for me is also the country of tourism Austria. But if I look at and read Mrs Finanzminister's speech, I find no point on tourism. Austrian tourism accounts for 7.9% of GDP. There are a lot of jobs being created, but the Minister has not found it worth mentioning here, even though 181,000 people a year find work in this sector and earn their money in this sector. If I have heard Mr Walser's speech on Mr Blum before: Yes, he had a certain image, of course, but right is that in the time when he was a government adviser, 12 000 additional apprenticeships were created from 2003 to 2008. And this must be the most important thing. I have nothing at all against the over-company teaching workshops, on the contrary, I am glad that there is such a thing, but these must not be the final conclusion of wisdom. We must all agree that we must do everything we can to help young people in the economy find a job, get a great training and become good professionals. That must be our stated goal. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we have been calling for the reintroduction of the Blum-Bonus for years, so that it is the companies that are once more recruiting apprentices. We have a problem with 50,000 young people who do not find a job. I believe that this is not a small business, but it is simply a question of implementing good proposals when they are present. I mean, it would be pretty slow at the time when at least you don't mean everything that was in the past, but just say, Okay, there's really a point that worked, and with a small incentive, with a "goodie" for the businesses, you can motivate them to reintroduce young people. Young people want to work, they want to find a job, and it's not like they're just working in two sections. I think that in the long run... [[Call at ÖVP:How many apprentices are there in your company?]] At YIT we have 12 000 employees, in Austria 800, and in my company we now have 200 apprentices. [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] But their number will certainly grow, because in building technology we have now also hired apprentices as office staff, as a specialist, as an electrician and so on. Just look at www.yit.at. No problem at all. That would be the right way, and I expect, even if it is not a large group, that the small businesses will also recruit young people and apprentices. After that, we must all try together. In the future, I wish I could find a post on this in the next budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16521	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16543	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am already convinced that this budget also sets very many aspects in terms of education. We had the opportunity to talk about it yesterday and today, and I would like to go into it very briefly. We have € 15 million per year for the promotion of educational institutions under three years old, we have € 9.3 million for youth policy measures. And a very, very important point is – Mr Markowitz has just mentioned this –: What about the apprentices? There is the operational promotion of teaching places that thank God is still taken into account at €160 million. This is a good aspect, which is a good thing to be found in this budget. The fact that the Minister for Children, Youth and Families is very important also shows that she mentioned them yesterday in her speech up to ten times. Since I am not one with you, this is the story where you – as Mr Pirklhuber has quoted – say quite below on page 36: ‘Taxation shall be effective, fair and fair.’ I would just like to mention a very short example. If I earned € 68 000 in the year, then I pay € 19 850. There is another group that, for example, has lands that also take 68,400 €, but does not pay a cent tax. This does not fall under “fair” for me, and one can certainly discuss it about it. There, I think, would certainly also be enough room to finance other things. On the whole, I am glad that the budget also bears a Social-Democratic manuscript, and we will therefore also agree to this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16578	Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16600	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to make a few comments on the environmental chapter. Environmental policy in Austria shows that a little can be done with forward thinking, forward thinking and a good dialogue with the population. It shows, on the other hand, that wherever the problems are suppressed and postponed, the costs eventually increase and the difficulties increase. The issue of climate protection is a subject that is very controversially discussed worldwide, indeed driven by many. With us in Austria, we tackle things in a variety of ways, and the environmental budget leads to this. Let's see how this works. On the one hand, it is about raising consciousness, which is happening with “climate:active”, on the other hand, about voluntary change. We work with the communities, with the citizens, with the entrepreneurs in the form of the consulting check. It is also a matter of making useful measures possible, so it is about promoting. We help in the renovation of the houses, we help in the construction of heat pipes, we help in the construction of near-heat systems, of cooling pipes, we help in the renovation of bad heating by promoting good heating. On the other hand, we have a good system of authorisation and approval procedures, and we know what we are doing because we operate measuring point networks for all possible environmental parameters. All of this is financed by the budget. Specific improvements are planned daily and implemented through the new, innovative rails of the Climate Energy Fund. If we go through the points in this way – and I could list many more here – we see that environmental policy is a matter that is very active and is perceived together with the population. On the other hand, we also know that there are issues where you have to provide service: in the waste management, in the restoration of the old loads, in the conservation of biodiversity or in the cleaning of our waters. But you know, we succeeded: The forest is healthy. The exhaust gases are desulphurized. And as far as the waters are concerned, the lakes show bathing water quality, and the rivers rise in vitality. All of this, as a whole, actually results in a highly efficient use of resources in the environment, and we could take a great deal of it for the normal handling of our money. If we were to do so in the other areas, namely to save and invest instead of bail and move, we could get things back into the right lot very quickly. [[Abg. Dr Pirklhuber: You have not said anything about the emission certificates, Mr Schultes!]] In the environmental field, we have already attracted the debt brake in many areas. However, as far as debt is concerned at the expense of the next generation of climate change, we still have to work hard on it, because there are still issues open to us, and that is what the Federal Government is doing with the entire budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Climate protection works, environmental policy works, and the budget for this is solid thanks to our Mrs. Minister of Finance Maria Fekter. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But not with the purchase of emission certificates!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16649	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16670	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! More money will be invested in our families, it was said. However, precise figures from which this conclusion could be drawn were not known to the Minister for Finance. However, Mrs Finanzminister described the family and young people as the “heart of our society”. – Ladies and gentlemen, it is not even a year since families were most burdened by the savings measures. All family benefits have been removed! [[Call the SPÖ: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Hellerer: What are you talking about?]] If Mrs Finanzminister is so important to families and the family is the heart of our society, then she should implement our model, the model family tax division. It is a fair, family-friendly and very modern family tax system. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The middle class was also mentioned yesterday. The Minister said – I quote – that it is high time to relieve the middle class. But she doesn't betray us when and how she wants to relieve the middle class. It would be high time to relieve the middle class! In particular, the middle class is the largest provider, and it is expressed like a lemon, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Who is this?]] [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Who is the middle class?]] Furthermore, Mrs. Minister said to the pensions that we would have to do much more to reduce the storm in the early retirement. On average, the Austrians retired too early. What measures are being taken in this regard? What will change in the future? – Nothing we've heard! You can only say: The speech of 92 minutes was very long yesterday, but we have experienced very little.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16747	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16769	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, on the one hand, we need more money for families threatened with poverty. Mr Schultes, there is also a need for more resources for us to get rid of Kyoto electricity payments in the area of the environment, so that we can invest accordingly in reducing CO2 emissions, for more energy efficiency. Mrs Minister, on the other hand: Read – you may have done so too – the accounts presented by the Court of Auditors! Here, on page 59, you come to the large problem of out-of-budget debt, to a problem circle that communicates practically with the budget like an osmotic vessel, because ultimately we are also liable for the extra-budget debt. They are not small, and the Court of Auditors notes significant increases: ‘The long and short-term foreign capital of the ÖBB Group exceeded the 31st. December 2010... the 20-billion mark...” – This is a certain magical threshold, Mrs. Minister. And at ASFINAG we are over €12 billion. This investment, which you are now and which you are planning together in the government, together with Mrs Bures, has presented to the Court of Auditors in a graph in the accounts. I can show you all once again. [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] This is the debt we currently have due to investments in the infrastructure sectors of road and rail. As a future budget burden by annuity payments for the repayment of the debt arising when we continue to invest in the proposed volume, the Court of Auditors presents this with lignite Umrandete. Please, Mrs Minister, this is huge, and that means quite specifically: Per budget from 2020 plus €1.2 billion. Each budget from 2020 has an additional burden of 1.2 billion on average only for annuity payments! And, Mrs Minister, because you have explained us very thoroughly yesterday, where you want to pursue sound budgetary policy everywhere, please put it here. [[Abg. Booker: No, she didn't!]] We have a programme here, which does not bring as much as the thermal rehabilitation mentioned by the colleague in respect of jobs at the point of entry. Here we do not have particularly effective road construction, which is workplace-based, employment-based. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But the construction companies...!]] We also have ÖBB projects that primarily support the construction lobby and also the tunnel construction lobby, but not the needs of the people. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] I would just like to keep the following in mind: I mean, the Court of Auditors is thorough. I always hold to the Court of Auditors in my political assessment. The Court of Auditors has also discovered the budget lie. Read on page 47! That's because he showed the graphics and then he writes below: “To sum up, the Federal Government has to make annuities of €53,677 billion for the investments described above, including €11,993 billion for the construction of the Brenner base tunnel.” We can still stop it! And now I'm telling you something: On Sunday, Monday, Tuesday in Switzerland, I was in contact with representatives of the Swiss People's Party, and I also spoke intensively about the experience with tunnel constructions, railway tunnel constructions in Switzerland. And what do the peoples of Switzerland tell me where a referendum for the financing of these tunnels was carried out, where the budget is financed directly – not with annuities – from the budget? What did this gentleman tell me about the Swiss People's Party? He told me: We have a big problem with the Gotthard. We're not going to the oberItalian room. The Italians did not advance the development of the follow-up route. And the Germans, as Swisss, we need to finance the inflow of Munich via Lindau. Please, that's not how it is! Look, I also have it, you can see it with me at any time. I also have the German general traffic plan, which reaches the Munich-Kufstein runway: There's no line in there. Remember, on the other hand, the conditions in Italy! Look at the Italian budget! And in this constellation, where there is no entry in the north, no passage in the south – or vice versa: in the south no loop, no passage in the north – we assume, according to the Court of Auditors, that the Brenner Base Tunnel will bring annuity loads for the construction in the future and will burden our budget in the future. I only share the experiences I have gained from a representative of the Swiss People's Party. Listen to this on-site again! And now, finally, because it is really essential – I mean, I want to catch up on this completely serious with Court of Auditors and Court of Auditors comments –: The wild thing about the whole story – now I deliberately take this word into my mouth – is that commitments were only worth €2.8 billion in the 2010 financial statement. And on the intervention of the Court of Auditors - and you have to imagine this - the sum has been corrected; namely, by BMVIT, together with the Ministry of Finance, with your Ministry of Finance, because of the audit of the Court of Auditors, debt of 10.8 billion has finally been booked and commitments of 43.3 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: A madness! Incredible!]] So that's obviously budget lug that's been operated there. And you are now facing the situation that you have decisions that will lead to this future debt, with these annuity payments. This is only – and now I really stop – the 75 percent that the federal government pays. How should an ÖBB ever be able to pay 25 percent, where it is now taking the curve every year and not even writing black numbers? So how's that going? I'm with my colleague. Auer really spoke in person and said: This is responsible for future generations, for future budgets! - You're wearing her, too, Mrs. Minister. And I can't take it from you, she doesn't want to lose you, because we want smart investment for people, for passenger services and not for the construction industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16853	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16875	Mr President. Minister! High house! The health budget clearly shows that Minister Stöger's intended savings path is not respected. The budget presented clearly shows that no reforms are planned by 2013. This also shows the political group's protocol. In this, the concerns of the steering group about financing will become quite clear from a source as we demand it, and the depowering of social security funds by doing so. It is intended to reduce costs, but only through savings in the insured and not through savings in the system, such as by combining the 22 social security funds, as we demand. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For the discussion with the Minister, there is only the introduction of a single right of hospitals, regardless of funding, and that is clearly too little. What are the main changes, what are they? – Staff expenditure in the ministry is rising from 38.6 million to 42.1 million, i.e. 3.5 million € – that is quite juicy – the actual expenditure from 868 million to 946 million – this is a plus of 78 million. But if you believe that this will benefit the insured, then you'll be extremely deceived. In fact, the increase is as follows: For the AGES, 18 million more are spent, so this is estimated at € 51.8 million. The Minister's plan that the AGES will finance itself through the distribution itself has, in German said, been decent in his pants. It's even more expensive. – But that should be no criticism of the AGES, please. Their need is undisputed. For the health of Austria GmbH, € 18 million is also estimated – an increase of 47.6 million to 65.6 million. A huge item, the so-called hammer in the increase, is the expenditure for the members of the minimum guarantee. These expenses amount to enormous € 60.6 million, i.e. € 37 million more than in the previous year. We have often discussed the sensibleness of the minimum guarantee; these figures disqualify them. What are the savings? – In addition to a few small savings in the veterinary sector, such as the removal of various vaccinations and compensation payments, the greatest savings are made – and that is for me the madness anyway – in the field of prevention. Although only €24.3 million will be spent there – that is by 1.5 million less than 2011 and by 5 million less than 2010. The Minister always talks about the importance of prevention and explains that money should be invested in prevention. In view of the removal of these means of prevention, it is only possible to say that the Minister clearly pursues a missing health policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16926	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16947	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! A few words to defend the state. If you fly over the report briefly, you can see a central sentence: With the funds of around 2.1 billion, the army is able to fulfill its mission. – What does not stand in it is of course that we decided to save almost €500 million by 2015. Of course, this is to be deducted. However, I am not the one who starts to lament here and mourns a single-percentage share of gross domestic product, but I would like to appeal to my fellow Members to remember perhaps what the Bundesheerreforms Commission has decided in 2010, namely the reduction of properties, the reduction of the army itself. And what are we gonna do? – When it comes to even considering which barracks, which properties are to be closed, there are some Members – and I understand that – to whom the barracks is a huge concern on his doorstep and who forgets what he has actually decided to do with it. We should really address the matter together and not play with each other to the Black Peter. We should give the Ministry of Defence the opportunity to make out of it the means that can be achieved, and not to ensure that this will be pushed to the long bank forever. This money is missing from the army, and it is not moving either. Just a very small example: Mr Kitzmüller was in a barracks with me in Upper Austria and wanted to bring me in a good mood to give a guarantee that we MEPs in Parliament are signing a request: This isn't the barracks! So, ladies and gentlemen, of course it cannot be. If each Member takes a few colleagues and submits a request calling for: Not my barracks, then you would have to tell the Minister of Defence, we have decided something, but it does not touch us. We have a responsibility to carry together, and perhaps in the light of financial scarcity we should have the strength to achieve this together. This is also the case of the countries. This cannot be done by the Federal Minister alone. This is where the countries have to be involved. They know their regions very well. They know where tolerable cuts are possible to prevent social hardships afterwards. But this only goes together and not if we push each other to the Black Peter. The funds for national defence will no longer be available in the near future, certainly not. To recognize that, I'm real enough. What we do not produce ourselves and make available to the army together, we will not have, and we will have to do so. Finally, however, we have the order of the army, and it has been perfectly fulfilled so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e16993	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17014	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As 84. I would like to make a few comments on the budget debate so far. It is clear that the location determines the position. We have experienced this over and over again with the budget debates in recent years. The Federal Government presents a future-oriented, sustainable budget, and it is legitimate that the opposition critically shed light on it – no question. What bothers me, however, is this permanent slender step of our country. People, ladies and gentlemen, have simply not deserved this because we have good figures in Austria, and there are just certain claims that are being made here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. We have the second-lowest youth unemployment. We have a high level of employment. We are also spending 5.5 billion on the labour market, 500 million on the youth labour market alone. We have the second highest purchasing power in Europe in Luxembourg, and we have a very high standard of living and a broad distribution of wealth. We also have one of the best social and health systems in the world. And, ladies and gentlemen, it's not from anywhere. This is due to the fact that policy provides good conditions and that we have diligent employees and innovative entrepreneurs. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Widmann]] And we should thank them together. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The budget is characterised by fragility and deficit reduction. We will be on the Maastricht border from 2013 onwards, up to 2% by 2015. In the long term, however, we have to go down the debt, which is not a question. Debt builds the future, especially the generations to come. This is not going from today to tomorrow, Mrs Moser, we must not overreact to the economic situation. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You're right!]] Let us be glad that the economy in Austria is still going well! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Only the debts that come through the infrastructure...!]] We are giving security and stability with this budget. The savings rate must continue. Reforms are also needed. And I would like to make a few comments today, especially on the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Gustl, what is it?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It has also been mentioned earlier: FPÖ's applications – we have calculated them – amounted to € 9.5 billion: in the area of family, social and health. [[Call at the FPÖ:... is made possible by other savings!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, you criticize the fact that we are doing too little debt reduction, and it is too little ambitious for you. And then you're bringing applications to the house that cost €9.5 billion?- Oh, my God! [[Call the FPÖ:... other savings! – Listen more, then you understand!]] This has nothing to do with a proper budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen. This is not the way to deal with a Parliament where we all want to do everything we can to bring the budget into a good future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second: Pensions. – In December 2010, you did not agree to the 2011 budget accompanying law, ladies and gentlemen! These included measures, including those related to the long-term insurance scheme that were necessary. You didn't agree. – So much to you that you call for reforms, but then if we put them to the decision-making process, do not agree. That's not serious. I call on you to go the way with us and then, when we present reforms, to agree to this last one. A word on Mr Oellinger's comments, even though he is not present: Yes, Golden Handshakes are unfair and have a lasting burden on the pension system. The reduction of privileges will be top priority. I do not now call the individual groups because this applies to several professional groups, but the reduction of pension privileges must be top priority. We also need more ambitious regulations. The social partners have presented a basis, but that will be too little. We must increase the actual retirement age by at least three or four years by 2020. This is our common responsibility in the sense of the generations to come. We need action. Next year, expenditure in this area is increasing by 900 million. I would like to ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, that we work together to create a sustainable pension system for our future generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17128	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17177	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Wöginger, if you are still trying so much to dissuade the FPÖ, it is a fact that you will have to answer this budget, which will truly bring many sustainabilitys and bad things to the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That we do not agree everywhere has its reason. That's so simple. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] You said that was a forward-looking and sustainable budget. I think such a thing really looks different. There are probably many losers in this budget, but one of the greatest losers is probably the public service, which has not yet been mentioned. If I am alone with Mrs. Fekter's budget speech, let me once again put my mind on it and see it – read it again! – that on these 42 pages just eight lines – eight lines! – to deal with the public service or the Federal Ministry of Women and Public Service and to deal exclusively with women's affairs in these eight lines, it is likely that this is an underestimation by the employer's own staff, as one cannot actually imagine. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is very important!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I mean, that's really not what our officials deserve. If I think only of our executive officials, of our judicial officials, of our army members, of our teachers, then I have to say that this is a behaviour of our Republic towards its servants who are looking for the same. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] There are many problems in the public service, where it would be important and necessary to address them in this budget. One of the biggest problems is the imminent ageing of the federal servants in the coming years. It threatens a staff collapse in such important areas as executive or teacher. This is not mentioned in a word. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Oja, with the teachers very well!]] There are no savings? I refer to page 21 in the administration and the staff, Mrs. Federal Minister! - Don't tell me! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: A new right of service and remuneration must be here!]] I don't think you know your own budget speech. Nevertheless, there is an urgent need for re-examination in this area. One could have brought important approaches to the future. You missed it, you didn't realize this chance. I think that both the federal staff and the population served by the officials who will face a major problem in the next few years would have deserved to be treated better and more justly by you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17262	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17283	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed several times today that Austria has so far been very successful in this economic crisis, which has lasted for four years. Unemployment is very low, youth unemployment is very low, and that is a great success. The government has so far managed to lead Austria safely through the crisis, and this course must continue. It is clear that in the context of the four-year consolidation plan, we are not going around this year for savings. The Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs is also not excluded. This is painful, but unfortunately necessary. Nevertheless, I would like to point out at this point the importance of an active foreign policy for Austria. Austria must continue to be able to meet its international responsibilities and foreign policy demands in the future, and Austria should continue to be an audible voice in the world in order to be able to represent the interests of Austrians efficiently. Austria has acquired a good reputation through good work, in-depth work within the UN and through its participation in UN peace missions. This good reputation is also in our own interest to maintain in the interests of security. It is very painful that savings are also foreseen in the area of development cooperation. In recent years, this area has already had to school a large part of the savings measures in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I find that very unfortunate. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and Greens.]] We urgently need to bring about a change of direction, because development cooperation is not a luxury if you are doing well. It is gratifying that the government has decided to increase the East African aid by €7 million to 8.5 million to support the soon-to-be one million hungry people in East Africa. In addition to the savings, the other side of the medal is also important, namely the revenue side. The State may not use one-sided savings in a comprehensive consolidation. We need the financial scope to deal with social, security-related tasks, and we need investment to help boost the economy, as well as investment in education and research. To obtain this scope, our tax system needs to be modernised. We need a financial transaction tax – in this respect I ask the government to drill hard in Brussels – and we also need further necessary measures to achieve socially just financing of the common good, such as asset tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17331	The next speaker was Mr Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17363	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I am speaking today about health and nothing else, Mr Pirklhuber, and I will briefly tell you a story that has happened between Austria and England in order to illustrate the difference. I'm a culprit. I acknowledge that I have helped to anchor a high level of care, regardless of age and income, in the government programme. This sounds unnecessary, but it is very important, as the following story illustrates: A Member of this House asked me if I could help. He's got an anchor in England, ten years old, who's always got headaches, but he hasn't managed to consult a neurologist in six months. After three months he visited the house doctor, before that he was at the family's nurse, not to mention kernspintomography. I advised him to bring his grandchild to Austria, and there could be a nuclear-spintomography within one day. On the second day, he was with child neurologists. Thanks to God, no brain tumor – that was the main fear of the parents – was detected. So when we talk about comparisons in the OECD, we have to say: England and Austria – no comparison! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But England is the Mecca of neoliberalism!]] If we look at the health budget today, we can say that these are values cast in money. We can see how much we value the care of our elders, our sick, our chronically ill. Of course the money costs. We are – what the least people know – these costs are related to the number 7 within the OECD and to the number 1 to 2 in the performance. It's not that bad at all. Nevertheless, I say you can do more and more. If I were to set up a health reform as a health minister, I would, and there is a lot of separate from the Minister of Health, place less emphasis on power shifts between countries, main association or cash, but rather I would say – what the OECD has told us – a great system, but too little ambulant, too much hospital, too little house doctor, too little prevention. Something else has to give us some thought: In health care, a total of 440 000 people work, 80 percent women. What makes me very worried is the very strongly rising burnout rate for doctors, but also for sisters. That is to say, the requirements for this system have increased. Very unexpected, for example, is the former city councillor and colleague Pittermann, who has said that our system is being documented to death. The German medical chamber president also says the same about the German system. It is not about money, but about the fact that today a lot of money is wasted by useless bureaucracy. For example, this would require a reform. I'll finish. Actually, I'm proud of the Austrian system, but it's a drilling of hard boards to keep this system on the level. Thank God we only received a highest score of Eurobarometer yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17400	Next speaker: Member of the jury. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17421	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Your honor, Mr. Rasinger, is that you praise our really good health system, but if I look at the inactivity of our federal government, I don't know how long we can maintain this good health system for our children for the next generations. The present draft budget is to be said – as we have already heard today – a continuation of the Federal Financial Framework Act from 2009 to 2014. Austria is in the happy position that the 2010 tax revenue is still very good. But the enlightenment for our population could occur very soon. Especially because of the inactivity, the refusal of reform of our federal government would have to ring the alarm bells. The banks are still briefly noted – that is to say, to the address of our Federal Ministers: Again and again, there is evaporation and political polemics from their side towards the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank in Carinthia. Other banks in Austria, for example the Hypo Lower Austria, are speculating 1 billion €, but that is then in the media: The success of the investment was not achieved by € 1 billion. Let us look at the liability framework of the state of Vienna for Bank Austria and UniCredit: there also €16 billion. In fact, the red lights would have to light up, especially at the Social Democracy, which also makes the Hypo Alpe-Adria appear in a bad light again and again. Or, Mrs. Federal Minister, the First Bank: €1.8 billion loss. A review of 2005 shows that the First Bank bought 60 percent of the Banca Comerciala Romana, the largest Romanian bank. The equivalent has been calculated by analysts with €600 million – by €3.5 billion, the First Bank made this deal in 2005! Currently, the First Bank writes a loss of €1.8 billion, does not pay back state aid. Faced with that, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen also from the ÖVP with your top savings bank representative and first board member Michael Ikrath, you could take yourself to the nose. Finally, the budget has to be said – in your words, Mrs Bundesminister –: Step by step to Big Bang, step by step to crush the red-black government coalition through inactivity and by concealing the facts in front of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17466	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17488	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! In the Federal Finance Act 2012, environmental expenditure rose from € 845 million to € 987 million. This is an increase that sounds very significant, but, of course, in relation to the actual efforts in the Committee only needs to be discussed in the next few weeks in order to establish certain priorities, especially because there is a wide range of support programmes in the environment sector. All these funding instruments must ensure full transparency, maximum efficiency and, above all, environmental sustainability. This applies to all sectors, and there must be close coordination, in particular with the federal states, but also with all sectors concerned. Since we have already discussed the new climate protection law in great detail yesterday, I would like to deal with the issue of environmental promotion today. It is an instrument that supports approximately 6,000 projects each year with €300 million. On the one hand, this brings an average emission saving of 8 million tonnes of CO2, and on the other hand, an investment volume of around 1.3 billion in the environmental sector will be triggered. The Austrian environmental industry is now the industry with the highest growth rates – one speaks of a growth rate of 4 percent – and now employs around 200 000 workers and should get an additional dynamic with the implementation of the new eco electricity law. With the increase in funding for eco-electric power expansion to 50 million, the federal government is still putting this industry in a strong position. I would like to point out that in my opinion, some federal states are politically unfair and environmentally counterproductive with these funding instruments. It can't be that the federal funding will be taken with its own national logo – and at the same time the federal states will say goodbye to the climate responsibility. A concrete example is Lower Austria. The country's photovoltaic promotion is discontinued, and at the same time the funds of the federal government are presented as State resources. This may be smart from the point of view of the national financial operator, but this must end with the commitment for the countries we agreed in the Climate Change Act yesterday. It can't be that, like a quiche aux légumes, you have to choose the best ingredients and then pay for everything. Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken a common path towards the energy transition. This is a major political challenge, but also a budgetary one. The SPÖ is responsible for this. We would openly contribute to an even more ambitious environmental and climate policy of the Ministry of Life.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17528	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Gerstl speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17549	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Herbert of the Freedom Party, before If you come out here, perhaps you should read the report of the Federal Government, then you do not need to tell here falsehoods. You would have saved yourself from saying to the Minister of Finance that she had nothing to do with staff expenditure in her budget. The opposite is the case! I quote here from page 28, ‘Budget policy priorities’, ‘Personal expenditure’: ‘Personal expenditure is one of the most important categories of expenditure in the Federal Budget.’ That's the point: Here you have to put a very special focus, and the Austrian Federal Government has already made a conscious effort in its plan to continue a corresponding consolidation phase in the next few years – a conscious consolidation phase, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the same time, however, the right priorities are set in this consolidation phase. Where are the priorities set? In education! We do not save on teachers, but rather on the contrary. Secondly, in security! We do not save on the executive staff, but we increase their number and will have more staff in the field of executives. [[Abg. Lausch:... do you believe yourself?]] Thirdly, we are investing in the field of labour inspection, because we are also concerned with selecting weaknesses which we can expect economically in the coming months and next year. And fourthly, We invest in the area of justice, because it is important for us to focus on the judges, the prosecutors and the judiciary. That is, when we invest in security, we give people the opportunity to invest in education in peace and security. With certainty for more education. That is what this budget represents, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the right priority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a clear investment in the field of justice and, in particular, in the field of corruption prosecutorship. At the same time, with the budget accompanying law, we are also creating the tax advantage for the International Anti-Corruption Academy, which, unfortunately, has been put into the world by our late Minister of the Interior Lese Prokop. And we are also creating a focus, especially in times like this, on an international model in the field of anti-corruption, ladies and gentlemen. I can therefore conclude and keep my mind straight: A special thanks goes to the Minister for Finance, who, with this budget, has given the right impetus to difficult financial and economic times that we face over the next few months, ladies and gentlemen. Surely for more education, that's exactly what we're right about.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17598	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17619	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gerstl! I have met you as very contentious colleagues in the Defence Committee, but what has come from you in the last three minutes was anything but material. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singers as well as intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] This was precisely the refusal of reality, which we have been criticizing for years – but well, you will probably be on the way – just as I have been surprised, as Mr Markowitz rightly criticised the path taken in the field of apprenticeship training, where we also say that this is the case. In fact, Blum-Bonus was a success recipe. At the time, he created 12 500 additional occupational apprenticeships, although we have 13 000 over-company apprenticeships today, we should all be aware that qualified training is taking place in our domestic establishments, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I'm surprised that the ÖVP is a defender of over-company training here. I believe that you are also responsible for your alleged clientele somewhere, here for the businesses and for the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Second – the colleague before me has mentioned this – security. Of course, the Austrian federal army also belongs to security. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all know that the German army is in a difficult financial phase, and I am also pleased that the President-in-Office of the SPÖ, Mr Prehauser, who spoke quite correctly: 530 million € by 2014 less, a huge package that comes upon us. – And I say quite openly: If we already have few opportunities and resources, we should try to use these funds properly. However, Federal Minister Darabos from this Federal Government has proved that he is not going this way. We have more personnel costs, more operating costs and less investment. That is, the motto – the alleged motto – of SPÖ, more troops, less administration, is not at all recognizable to us. On the contrary: We recognize a greater number of military services in the central office and, in contrast, less so with the force. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, a statement of words about the defense budget in the 2012 proposal is not sufficient if you read carefully the explanations of the federal proposal and put down page 93, where you are in position 1/14138 – I quote –: “The estimates include the expenditure on the investment and operation of the ÖBH” (i.e. the Austrian federal army) “as well as the operations in Germany and abroad. The estimated expenditure amounts are intended to carry out the following projects:’ I really want to listen now! And on top of that: ‘Restricted maintenance of the Federal Government’s operations,... limited consideration of requirements for the maintenance of the infrastructure.’ My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I call on all the responsible politicians here in this House, who are at the heart of the security, Mr Gerstl, but also the German army, to put this in place and bring about a change in the trend. And I would really like the ÖVP to say that it will also find clear words to Federal Minister Darabos in this regard, in order to perhaps make a positive turnaround somewhere else.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17693	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17714	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that the arts and culture turbudget remains constant with €455 million. In any event, even in these economically tense times, we have ensured that our budget can finance and implement the priorities of the government programme, participation, mediation, film promotion. I would also like to mention – especially as a recent project – the digitization of the Kinos programme. Together with City Councillor Mailath-Pokorny from Vienna, the Minister has launched a funding of € 1 million for cinematographic digitization. I only think it is a shame that Minister Mitterlehner has refused this support in the sense of local development. At any rate, we have safeguarded the agreed projects budgetly, but still face challenges in cultural policy as a whole, if I take only one point – all of us essential – into account. Access to art and culture as a basic cultural provision is always an essential issue for us. We also need to take a look at the fact that the connection between social exclusion and cultural exclusion is strengthening, i.e. where poverty is increasing, cultural exclusion is also increasing. In this respect, cultural participation, equal opportunities as the objective of cultural policy is a challenge for us, because cultural education is a very essential point in terms of participation and in terms of the possibilities of a self-determined life. And this needs budgetary means, it needs new forms of participation and distribution justice – in that sense cultural policy is social policy and democracy policy – but it also needs an open climate and an open, curious mood in the country. Against this background, because today we have been talking about Europe all day, at the end of my speech I would also like to express my protest and my shock at what is happening in our neighbouring country, in Hungary. István Csurka, together with György Dörner, has been appointed head of the “New Theatre” in Budapest – Csurka is a gallion figure of Hungarian anti-Semitism. And after their appointment, the two have already announced that they want to clear up “sick liberal hegemony ” with what they say and declare“ liberal indifference... the war. ” In addition, they already presented the theatre ensemble with the following as a threat: “Whoever does not cooperate with us must go.” Ladies and gentlemen, we had that before. I find it shocking what is happening in the cultural area in our neighbouring country. Art needs resources, art needs spaces, recognition, public support, but it also needs an open, curious climate across the borders and it needs broad ambiguous opinions against anti-democratic, authoritarian and marginal attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17762	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17784	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that we are on the right track with this 2012 budget. We save where it is necessary, because only through savings can we reduce our debt and also our interest rate burden of € 8 billion. And we invest in the future: Education, research, universities, family. But the safety of our Austrians is also important to us. In particular, our Minister of Finance, who was in the run-up to the Minister of the Interior, is familiar with the Situa- It is a matter of particular concern to the Commission and to the Council. That's why she also made sure we get more money. It has already been said today that 120 million more for safety, and that is especially worth mentioning. This means that we have nearly €2.5 billion at our disposal for the safety of our citizens, for the fight against crime and for the fight against crime. What does that mean? – There will be more staff to combat crime. The quality of the equipment is ensured. Modernisation will continue. But above all, we are working on improving communication and information technologies. Ladies and gentlemen! More money, better equipment and top training guarantee that Austria remains one of the safest countries in the world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17826	The next speaker was Mr Mayerhofer. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17847	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! Again, a small follow-up from direct practice. My contribution questions the conditions in the field of internal security, which are truly not crowned by success. [[The speaker holds up two newspaper cuts.]] “Criminity is coming again”. – Today’s headline in “Austria”: ‘The number of acts of violence is fasting.’ I would like to begin with the fact that crime is rising at the highest level, i.e. strongly, especially in my home country of Lower Austria. It has so far been baffled to a high level, but is now increasing sharply. But something needs to be done. Citizens can no longer take this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now it is important to examine the circumstances. Why is that so? – We have not yet managed to position our police forces according to the work attack. This has not yet happened despite a great leadership crew. Until now, one has not been able to shape, for example, the working climate in Vienna in such a way that the police don't flee. There are still hundreds of applications for a transfer to the federal states. This is a debated example of the fact that the police in this city do not feel comfortable. Every migrant is more helped in the establishment of a household in Vienna, I mean the withdrawal, than a young police officer who, for example, moves from a federal state to the federal capital. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The low entry level for young police students was already the subject here. Young people who already have family obligations, maintenance obligations cannot take this job because the entry rate has been reduced so that it is only more sufficient for a person to receive alone. The police officer is also frustrated when, for example, he has to beg about a handling machine or any other service, such as a paper carver, while on the other hand he learns from the media that, for example, a logging system was purchased by €7 million, without tendering and without a competition, with the opportunity to make such savings if only the competition had been allowed. An even greater nuisance in this story was that, when five Members wanted to know why this is so, the Minister replied that the companies were very well invited, while now the Court of Auditors found something different, namely that only one company was invited. Finally, I would like to give an example of how under-explained our executives are in part. If a police officer in Vienna 1 at the Schwarzenbergplatz covers up with a jause at half past six o'clock in the morning, a citizen who doesn't fit, takes a photo, sends this photo immediately to the Disciplinary Arrest, and there the executives have nothing to do more quickly than publish this photo in the Internal Police Intranet, so that this police officer is duly highlighted by 4,000 people, then I must say that this is unfair, disproportionate and inhumane. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For every prisoner, every one who is shown, every prisoner is allowed to enjoy the greatest possible protection of his person. Every police officer is trained on it. Please let a police officer who has initiated a harmless disciplinary procedure also have this small advantage under the motto: The important thing first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17917	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gäßner to speak. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e17938	Dear colleague, with the budget it will probably not be better for your colleagues either. Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! There was a lot of criticism of this budget. I say that it is under the given conditions a good budget which has been presented to us by the Federal Minister. And it would be exciting to hear what could be done better, under the given conditions. Mrs. Federal Minister, we discussed with each other once. I don't know if you can remember. You have called yourself Minister of the Interior as Minister of the Interior. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Was I then!]] I would have hoped that you would take this designation, this award, into your role as Minister of Finance. I've been watching exactly what you've said to the communities. Not too much. However, I noticed one thing: The new Stability Pact says in your speech – and this is known – that the communities have committed themselves to having balanced budgets each year, and that the sanctions mechanism has been intensified. That means that every church that does not achieve this will then be punished as well. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No,...!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! That doesn't look good. If a third of the municipalities cannot balance their budgets, I wonder how these will balance their budgets. So I would really ask you to pay a very special attention to the communities. Because that's just the level where all people live, and there, quality of life should be possible. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: You have already decided! That's what you've voted in!]] I know we decided. As Minister of Finance, I ask you to look at the communities more closely. That's my little face. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] – Madam Federal Minister, unfortunately I do not have the time to address your arguments any longer. The second area I would like to deal with in the budget discussions over the next few weeks is agriculture. There are still a few things in the context of rural development, where you claim that no euro should be left in Brussels. Of course not! It is all our task to ensure that these euros are all coming. I hope that this budget will also be possible, because the funds have been reduced. Schooling in agriculture has already been discussed today. Let us first look at what the Court of Auditors so strongly criticizes before we increase this budget so much. And a sentence at the end. They say that our farmers provide indispensable services, make an indispensable contribution to our prosperity, to our economic location and to regional local services, and then say: “I therefore grant all those who bade the merits of farmers and only create envy.” I say that the merits of farmers must not be mistreated. However, the earnings of all other workers and workers should be treated in the same way as those of farmers or vice versa. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I already praised them before!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It cannot be that there are tax privileges in which others do not benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18038	Mr Maij-Weggen spoke as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18060	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Kunasek mentioned earlier that the EIA was not concerned about the proper management of the budget. – First of all, the Federal Minister for Finance is the best guarantee for this, and secondly, of course, we also take care in the other areas or in the other ministries to ensure that the money is used as it is planned. I know that this is particularly necessary in the area I am now talking about, in the Ministry of Defence, and I would like to justify it. First of all, however, the following conclusion: This budget, which by 2015 provides for €500 million less, is at least as much as €2.24 billion that it is still €54.2 million higher than last year. Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is worth an applause, as it is also ensured that our employees will first receive their money from the German army and second, that the other tasks can also be implemented accordingly. With this budget, the Austrian Federal Army is at least responsible for the constitutional task – and that is important – and thus the tasks of the new security strategy can be fully fulfilled. [[Abg. Kunasek: Limited!]] You, Mr Kunasek, said earlier: limited activity. Unfortunately, the Federal Minister – and I am still talking about it – has not implemented what we have planned together and also discussed about the federal government reform, but he wants to implement his ideas of the professional force, as I would like to show here today with an advertisement from “NEWS”. [[The speaker presents a panel with the advertising ad just mentioned on the speaker's desk.]] In this context, of course, there are many questions about how he wants to finance this. From our point of view, this is in no way guaranteed and possible. On the contrary, it costs a lot, much more money, and I would really ask the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany to clarify to this House where this money should finally come from to implement this idea, which we believe is wrong. Each calculation clearly shows that it costs more than is possible today for the tasks and the resources available for them. Therefore, we should first try to implement the federal reform, which has already been discussed in the evaluation committee, in order to ensure the security of Austria with the money we have available. Dear ladies and gentlemen, with the security of Austria you do not play, in any way, with neither internal nor external security! I am really concerned that, in future, the security of Austria is no longer guaranteed by these measures, which the Federal Minister sees as a playing field, in the future. [[Abg. Kunasek: We too!]] That is why it is all the more necessary for you, Mrs Federal Minister, as well as we, to try to ensure that the funds available – anyway, scarcely enough – are used properly. At least I hope that this will enable the Austrian Federal Government to carry out its tasks, as we have always planned to do so together.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18122	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18143	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Financial Framework Act up to 2015: Our clubman is right when he says that this law of Mrs. Finanzminister is devouring everything that approaches him or sets him in motion. The magic word is five years' plan. The euro remains stable, she says, but it is the question for whom – certainly not for our people. We sit on a debt mountain of say and write 365 billion € by 2015. Mrs Finanzminister says that the population did not get to feel the crisis, although a million Austrians live on the poverty line. This has been forgotten by this Federal Government because it is rather self-employed, has only a hearing of Brussels and its own population is no longer heard. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – That’s right, Mr. Cot. However, the Court of Auditors also makes it quite clear that in future interest payments will amount to up to €10 billion if this goes on. That's a massive downfall in this budget. Very sad, ladies and gentlemen, very sad for Austria is the fact that for the first time in the history of the Republic debt must be entered in order to pay the interest. The policy of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer acceptable to the population – and not to the coming generations at all! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18182	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18204	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a housing speaker of the Social Democratic Party, I have to judge the budget speech on the areas of housing and construction. It says Except that dwellings and buildings represent two essential cornerstones of our society. These are the social and social function of housing and the labour market with its economically relevant function of building. Both are very important areas, but only nine lines of this very comprehensive budget speech have been used for this. Living and farmers were actually seen only from the point of view of thermal renovation. Mrs Finanzminister, you see the importance of supporting the local economy. Of course, this is very important and it is very important, very important, also the relevance you have mentioned regarding the conservation of countless jobs and the measures of climate protection. For this to happen, the €100 million planned will be an important approach, but in order to support all areas, a bundle of measures will be necessary. I think that it will be more necessary, as a whole, that means that countries should also increase the rehabilitation measures, their promotion. This also means that in the future we will again be working together for a secure housing promotion which is intended and which the countries have to support in order to achieve all that we are doing. The thermal renovation is an important approach and a command of the hour, but it is only a contribution to achieving the CO2 target, the CO2 balance as well. In principle, the rehabilitation check, which was introduced, has been very well received. A final evaluation is still missing. It is very important for us, in addition to the control that access to multi-storey housing is also possible so that construction prices do not lose their effect. Perhaps a few comments on the BIG, it has very solidly supported the construction industry in the context of the 2009 economic package and has produced very good results in the renovation of stocks. The recent placement of a €150 million bond should help refinance the BIG's financial needs for the next two years. What we cannot imagine in this context would be a model where the filet pieces of the BIG are privatized and schools, universities and non-profit-making public institutions remain the property of the BIG. Finally, I would like to point out that there is an urgent need for reform in the area of housing and construction, apart from the areas mentioned above. I should like to point out once again the responsibility of the federal states regarding the renovation and the handling of housing funds. There is an acute need for reform, both in the MRG, in the WGG and in the WEG, and I call on everyone to clarify these issues together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18255	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. 3 minutes speaking time is set for you. If you start talking, I'll turn the clock on. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18276	Mr President. Minister! High house! Justice is in the mouth of all, everyone demands justice. But what about performance justice? – I also call for this. One thing is if disabled people do something, then it must be recognized as the performance of non-inhibited people. And people with disabilities can also practice professions, such as the teacher profession. This is where we need to have access to it. open moods. This too is justice of performance. [[As a result of this, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the European Parliament. Rudas and Dr. Moser.]] However, I also call for fairness of performance for the budget, for state support. If €6 billion is paid out of taxpayers' money for pension subsidies, then the question of gender equity arises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18315	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18336	Mr President. Mrs Financier! Criticism is not allowed, I have already heard about SPÖ and ÖVP today, so I do not dare say anything negative about the budget either. But maybe a few small comments: Mrs. Federal Minister, who worries me – you are a very smart, active woman – is that you have not mentioned the European dimension in the budget speech. I think burning cars, Athens in exceptional condition, young people trying to leave Athens are worth mentioning. In the course of this, we know that the Germans are already afraid that the French are going to die. What to do with Germany? The Germans say: What happens to us when France is gone? And if the Germans are not well, I wonder what will happen from Austria. You didn't talk about it. I think you know more than all of us here together. Secondly, The former Minister of Finance Pröll said the same thing a year ago: We have overcome the crisis! Now I'm telling you: We haven't reached the crisis yet, the bullet starts rolling. What matters to us will take on dimensions, since we can already fear today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] The good citizens – Mr Zanger said that, please don't give up on the bank – already know why they no longer have any confidence in it. We know, banks, corporations, governments, small and medium-sized enterprises and employees, who has anything to talk about? We know that the largest population group has the least rights, but at the same time it is responsible for most of the cost of maintaining the system. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] Where does the money come from? – Yes, structural reform! Last year we heard exactly the same thing. What happened? - We know. On social matters: Please, what happens to the families? Why is this not discussed? Families, children, more children, new concepts are to be developed. There's something there. The opposition has brought in enough, you just have to tear it in here and also discuss it honorably, not ignore it in a black and red bunker mentality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or you stop immigration. That's perhaps the best form, you think. But that's more expensive. Yes, anyone who doesn't know where he wants to go must not be surprised that he's coming out somewhere else. This action by the government also reminds me of the state of Styria. We also have a black and red and black reform community, which is very successful. The hospitals are closed, departments closed, moved. Why? Why? – Conceptless! Cultural goods are excavated elsewhere, with us there is a concern that they are re-possessed or that the work is kindly extended to a year – Flavia Solva, South- Steiermark, an Austrian jewel. In the South Styrian market hundreds of tons of tomatoes have been destroyed in the last two or three months, hundreds of tons, I can't even pronounce it. Farmers get promotions for products that they have to destroy afterwards. Where is the concept of making this economically beneficial to people? That's all pointless! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The labour market: I am still thinking of the statements on the labour market, to the east opening that this is not a problem. Right, there have been a little fewer people, but now it's gotten even worse. Now the companies with their people come to dumping prices and cash double and triple. Who controls that? And the whole thing is regular! – Thank you, EU. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion: I call on the government to rethink and act. Getting away with the number players compared with other countries and structural reforms immediately. Do more for Austria and less for the EU! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18433	Next speaker: Mr Hell. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18455	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the media reported that the European Union has adopted a list of priorities for transport projects. There was a realignment of the trans-European networks. A new rail core network was also presented involving 85 economic centres and agglomerations, 183 sea and inland ports and 28 border crossings in third countries. In Austria, the new South Railway, part of the Baltic-Adriatic axis, was integrated over Vienna, the Semmering Tunnel, Graz, the Koralm Tunnel, to Villach. This will create a very important Alpine crossing in the next decades. Why am I referring to this decision here? – Transport policy is a process that needs to be constantly renewed, needs very long-term planning and also needs to include long-term financing. This budget estimate is intended for current rail construction projects, but also for the disposal of slow-moving points of €2.1 billion. This will allow the way to further expansion, as BMVIT provides, to be implemented by 2025. The aim is to increase the capacity of the railway by 30 percent. The Federal Government's primary objective must be to strengthen the market position of the rail and to further develop infrastructure and stock renewal in the railway and safety equipment sector. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria needs a high-performance, modern rail infrastructure, high-performance rail companies and, most importantly, an integrated transport policy. Transport policy requirements also include the co-financing of public passenger transport. I therefore also welcome – the Federal Minister pointed out yesterday in her budget speech – the fact that a positive opinion was given on the part of the federal government towards the payment of public service. The shift from road to rail was also addressed. It is recognised that investments in the railway sector also bring investment for a better environment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A word on the discussion on railway workers during the last discussions. I do not think the railways deserve to be constantly presented negatively here, although all those who have spoken on this subject are aware that there has been a new right of service in the Austrian Federal Railways since 1995 and that colleagues are being treated in accordance with the ASVG. [[Abg. - That's right!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18491	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18513	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hell, no one wants to hurt the staff of the ÖBB. I just don't understand, quite honestly, why we always have the debate that people should stay in employment longer and that the actual retirement age should be increased, that, for example, when someone has worked for 45 years and is allowed to retire at 62 years in the future, when he brings it together, that he has enough insurance periods, but that another person who is employed with the ÖBB can retire 53. I don't see where justice is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And then there are other exceptions. I think it should be mentioned again and again. On the one hand, these are the state officials in Vienna. Now I already know, there are always the arguments, there are different professional groups that have to do with heavy or also psychologically difficult work, such as the workers in the hospital association or also the firemen et cetera, but honestly someone who is in the administration and is a national official does not have to retire with 54 or 55, because there would be any other who is active in the private sector feeling sick. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lueger]] I don't think we can imagine that either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Riemer makes himself here, then goes away from the speaker's desk and goes out right away. I think he'd be better off in the Burgtheater, because the excitement he had here today I don't understand at all. [[Call the SPÖ:Tschunner!]] Honestly! The Federal Minister yesterday presented a budget which is quite simple in the economic situation of Austria. And if Mr Riemer said that we should have taken in the European dimension, I say: The FPÖ negates the European dimension. You preferred to leave the EU and the euro area. So I wonder how you can make yourself here and speak completely differently to all the other things that have been said so far by the FPÖ. Finally, I would like to mention a few points. If the budget, as it is now, is constantly debilitating and saying that you have not taken this and that into account, I believe the most important thing is that we should finally realize that we must not make debts, not make future debts. [[Abg. May. Stefan: But only this day! Next year and next year!]] The essential thing is that we are reducing the debt we still have from the last decades on the bubbling, not only from the crisis, but also from the last decades. That is why we also need a debt brake in the Constitution. If we believe that the States can all, including in Europe, live through their conditions, then we will not do good to young people. Even if we have these general debates here: Should we support the Greeks, should we help them? Et cetera. We only favor that they go on the road and light up the houses and cars in Greece. Yes, Mr. von der FPÖ, that's where you go with the axles. Responsible policy looks different! I would like to conclude by saying: If we always talk about justice, I'll tell you the following: I believe that the essential thing is that people are in employment, because if they are in employment, they are also able to pay taxes and if people are able to pay taxes, then we can also return to education, towards social affairs, towards pensions, towards young generation spending money. If we always make things bad, and if we do not consider that we cannot create jobs and secure prosperity in Austria, it is our entrepreneurs – and here you always organise a kind of hetze that you simply cannot tolerate.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18583	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Hackl. 3 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18605	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! On the basis of the documents on the budget speech, I already notice inconsistencies in general, for example on page 15 among others: maximum national budget deficit 0.6 percent of GDP for 2012. You can still leave that, but there's a position below, which means: The municipalities have committed themselves to budgeting in a balanced manner. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: To sum up!]] Yeah, but is that feasible? Since we are both from Upper Austria, I will take an above Austrian example. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: To sum up, the country has to compensate for this!]] Oberösterreich has 444 municipalities, of which about 280 are downstream municipalities. In addition, there is a national decree – I do not know if it is similar in other federal states – that investment projects from € 350 000 are to be carried out via KGs or GesmbHs. In Upper Austria, there are currently 300 such constructions, which are comically built mainly by tax advisors and lawyers on the recommendation of the country. A small example of the calculation: 300 projects with certainly not too high € 2 million per project result: $0.6 billion in debt. Moreover, the State is deprived of VAT through this construction, since these constructions are entitled to a pre-tax deduction and the VAT is naturally recovered for a longer period of time. Now, when you move this small example of data from Upper Austria to all over Austria – and I am always very careful – I estimate that we have some €10 billion of hidden debt. There are now some requests and vehement resistance from the National Accounting Court in Upper Austria: ‘Deposited municipal debt: ‘The Truth Now Nearer’’. Further: The country's policy is to release debt, and the country does not want to change anything. So if we continue on the basis of these willingnesss, I wish you good luck with your budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18655	The next speaker was Mr Keck. 3 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18676	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget seems to provide many irritations – and what I noticed – especially apparently at the BZÖ. What did Mr Klubobmann Bucher say today? – Mr. Klubobmann has listed a wealth of savings, savings in the administrative sector, savings in the health sector he has suffered, the social security funds he wants to put together, and, and, So a lot of savings he has presented, but, ladies and gentlemen, he has not said what is behind these savings. What's behind that? – If I make all these savings, that means fewer officials, fewer police officers on the street, fewer doctors and nurses in the hospitals, that is, hundreds of thousands more unemployed in Austria, because that is the sum of savings, ladies and gentlemen. But what else did he say? And this has caused me irritation. At the same time, he said that he and his BZÖ were not to have a tax on the rich, because the 300 million who are being saved there are not stopping a budget hole. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] That is, on the one hand, the BZÖ wants to have more unemployed in Austria and on the other hand, the BZÖ wants to promote the rich in Austria. Let's not go this way, ladies and gentlemen. In this way, we have opposed a budget that Mrs Finanzministere has drawn up, which is socially balanced. [[As a result of this, the Commission has taken the view that, in the light of the information provided by the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European ……]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the colleague Themessl – who really irritated me today – was out here and said: The government is hiding thousands of unemployed young people in the teaching workshops, which are only repair workshops. I can only say one thing, ladies and gentlemen: We do not hide young people there, but we train 10 200 young people in a hundred professions in these teaching workshops. We are training 10 200 young people in a hundred professions, young people who would otherwise be on the street, ladies and gentlemen. There young people are given a chance to shape their future, to make the future truly viable. Why, ladies and gentlemen, are the young people in these classrooms? Let's take a look at this! They are in these teaching workshops because they do not receive training places in the companies because the entrepreneurs do not give them training places. Ladies and gentlemen! I surfed a little on Parliament's homepage, I looked at the website of the Freedom Party and I found: There are 14 entrepreneurs in the Freedom Party. – Pass, it’s not a problem, it’s supposed to be, it’s great if you have it. But there's also an entrepreneur who said we're hiding apprentices. The colleague Themessl is also an entrepreneur, he has the company Themessl & Partner KG, which means that it is certainly not an individual company, because if he has partners in it, it cannot be an individual company. And I would really like him to know if he, if he is really concerned about the apprentices who obviously hidden the government over this budget, has hired this apprentice. Did he perhaps double or triple the number of apprentices in his company? Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly what makes us so excited when false accusations are made here. You're accusing us of handling false numbers. I can tell you that we are not dealing with false figures, we have had a budget created; and I am very grateful to the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Hundstorfer, who, unlike you, gives young people in this Republic a chance.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18746	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18768	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my view, the 2012 budget deserves the term “sustainable”. The budget will be rehabilitably rehabilitated and the economy will be seen to be strengthened in a sustainable way. It is this very concept of sustainability, which I believe has led us to have this crisis now, that simply sustainability was something that our responsibilities and also parts of society no longer really lived. Instead, it has developed a mentality that everything is possible, according to the motto: “Anna, the credit hamma” – that is, a life on pump – and on the other hand, “Gifty is horny”, where simply the greed was made salonable and no longer referred to as vices, as we have learned it. I think this time is over, too. It is now going back in the direction that citizens are genuinely committed to a reasonable and sustainable economy. And that is exactly what this budget is doing: setting sustainable and reasonable priorities and setting new accents in this area. The 2012 budget sets these new priorities in the field of education, science, health and also in care, and whatever is important, this budget also has aired up that, if there is need of man, there is money. In this context, I would like to mention the aid from East Africa, where the Minister of State, together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State, has added €7 million, so that we can help in a region very seriously affected. I believe that we show here that we practice solidarity at international level, we also practice solidarity at European level, and we practice this solidarity – and this is also expressed in the budget – in Austria, too, when it comes to financing the compensation allowances, that we finance the minimum guarantee that we finance care, that we finance the ‘re-introduction of childcare’. I believe that this budget, with the terms “sustainability” and “solidarian” really deserves our approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18805	The next item is the speech by Mr Lausch. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18826	Mr President. The Federal Minister is gone. Good. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all... – Mr State Secretary, respect! [[Abg. Amon: (to State Secretary Mag. The Secretary of State is here!]] First of all, to the ÖVP: So this is already a very strange thing, when representatives of the ÖVP are preparing and starting to drink hatreds in the direction of the liberals, after the speech goes out of the hall, because the speech by Mr Mayor was one and a half hours ago, and since then he has not appeared in plenary. Mr Wöginger then came back in and took some time to calm down a little. You just need to be careful, gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party: Yes, of course, our proposals cost money, but you already have to counter it, our proposals also bring tax money, some of which of course also bring massive savings. And that's where you've got to figure out a little bit to be credible here. The whole thing is a bit of a arithmetical example, but calculations are not very great at the ÖVP, which is also seen by Mrs Finanzminister. I do not want to go any closer to yesterday's budget speech, that has always been a matter of its own and media, but one thing I want to say: If I look at the budget and see that personnel are being saved in the judicial area, but the costs are still rising, I'm afraid of the ex-internal minister, because I already have to remember that her statistics have always made us afraid. Why? – The former Minister of the Interior and the current Minister of Finance has always gone here – with figures she has not done it very much – and has always not occupied planning sites in the border region in the wine district. As a result, there have been fewer officials in the border area, fewer seizures. This was less crime for Mrs Ex-Innenminister, current Minister of Finance at the same time. So that's self-evident. They're milkmaid bills. I think it's really scary if you have this lady now as a Minister of Finance, and yesterday she couldn't shine very much. You just need to read the newspapers today. This is not our criticism, not we have somehow criticized it, but the media were partly very, very disappointed by this Minister for Finance. There is the colleague Tamandl, who has also come out here, who is threatening against the liberals, wildly now, she is no longer in plenary, attacking my colleague Riemer... – Yes, now you are again, but rather look at your seats, which have gone out immediately after her speech. [[Abg. Tamandl: But I'm here!]] They weren't there either. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Such a thing is self-evident. This is unbelievable, this is a policy that will be directed by voters in 2013. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I hope not so many of you are in plenary and are not here at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18893	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18915	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Much has been said about the budget today. A group has not been mentioned very often, this is the group of people with disabilities, whose spokesman I am from the SPÖ National Council Club. I'd like to share some thoughts with you now. What has happened to me is that the woman minister – unfortunately she is no longer there – has not really said a single word about people with disabilities in her budget speech, which has irritated me a little. However, today I am also annoyed that the disabled speaker of the BZÖ and also no speaker of the Freedom Club spoke about people with disabilities, nor about where they said at the debate on the later evening, almost at night that the disability policy in Austria is being made by the opposition. Today, they have really not noticed anything about it. Today we have noticed that the disability policy in Austria is being made by our Federal Minister Rudi Hundstorfer. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: Colleague Hofer is in the hospital!]] – I know, but Mrs. Belakovich has... [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The colleague Jarmer has...!]] – I said only BZÖ and FPÖ. It is true that Mr Jarmer spoke about this, of course, but those two complained about it yesterday evening. Of course, Franz-Joseph also spoke. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Huainigg]] Yesterday, the opposition raised the issue of disability, while today, at the first reading of the budget, there was nothing to hear of it, and that has already irritated me a little. Although Mr Jarmer spoke today about disability policy, he meant that there was no progress in this area in Austria but only a standstill. I don't want to leave that in the room. All those who are concerned about this area know that the National Action Plan has just been sent on the way. This National Action Plan will contribute – and I am 100% convinced – to the fact that there will be more awareness of the concerns of people with disabilities, that there will be awareness of the need to talk about social inclusion, because disability policy is above all a cross-cutting matter, much more than social policy. Disability policy covers all areas of life. I would like to stress here: For social democracy, the most important thing is human rights. In order to enable disabled people to participate in society, one aspect is quite, very important: that is the labour market. I would like to tell you a few figures so that you also know what you are talking about when talking about labour market policy for people with disabilities. There are individual promotions and project promotions. In the previous year, € 175 million was paid for these two funding vessels. 60 217 people were able to benefit from it and 9 507 new jobs were created for people with disabilities, and 11 263 jobs could be secured with funding from the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection. That, ladies and gentlemen, is just not nothing! I would like to stress this already here today, because it is always done as if we did not have much left for people with disabilities. In addition, there is personal assistance at the workplace. 345 people – of course it could be more and more – benefit from personal assistance at work. For this, €4 million is currently being spent. This too, I think, is a nice contribution to the fact that people with disabilities can participate in social life. We are of course also concerned with fiscal consolidation, we are also concerned with saving, but we are particularly concerned about not saving at the expense of the social state. We are concerned with justice, and it is about everyone contributing to solidarity funding – even those who have currently parked their assets a little tax-saving in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18969	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e18991	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Minister presented her budget proposals yesterday, and today many of the more than 100 speakers are experiencing some strange interpretations and interpretations of this budget, as well as various formulations of the arguments concerning it. In reality, only one thing needed to be considered: A budget is not a wishful concert – even in these days! It should, in particular, contribute to the stabilisation of the situation at this time, but also to the reduction of deficits, because we know what results from it all. But it should also ensure prosperity and social peace. However, the budget should still be in its focus – and this shows it quite precisely. These are, in addition to many social concerns already mentioned, the areas of youth, children and family, but also the further development in the fields of education and research, which have even experienced an increase in financial resources. This budget is a solid, balanced basis with which we can go into negotiations over the next few weeks and months. I am already looking forward to the lively discussions in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19024	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19045	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Our pension system ensures that even at age a life is possible on a solid basis. This budget takes account of it. There will be more than 600 million additional available for this area next year. The current problems – the financial crisis, the banking crisis, the debt crisis in Europe – are worrying people, and it is therefore all the more important that the Austrians can rely on the social state. The social state faces major challenges: The age structure of the population, increasing life expectancy and a significant change in the structure of the labour force are expected to have a significant impact on the social system. But there is a debate on how to deduce its infinancing, which is wrong. The social state has proved itself in the crisis, and it is up to us to ensure it for the future through appropriate measures. In the area of pensions, the increase in the actual retirement age is undoubtedly a major challenge, and we have already put in place measures in the past, such as “rehabilitation before pension”, “fit to work” and similar measures more. If we want to keep people longer in the work process, then it will be necessary that we have an age-oriented working world. Statten, and this will be another challenge for us, but above all for the economy. There is also progress in the field of state finance. At European level, there will be the financial transaction tax thanks to our Federal Chancellor Faymann. We have taken the right path with the bank levy, with the change in the tax system, corporate taxation, taxation of speculations, and we will continue to pursue this path. This is undoubtedly a challenge, even for the coalition. We will by no means need ideologies. Instead, we need to be willing to solve problems. We have heard many times today that the tax and tax rate is too high. - Yeah, she's too high! It is, therefore, too high because we are overrepresenting wage-earners, and therefore it is time for us to invite all those who are still, as it were, still convenient to drive around the finance, to take over their share in the financing of the state. The expenditure brake was also a topic here several times today. That might sound good. But we are well advised to translate this vocabulary as well. The cost brake is cut! And where can you cut short? – In the fields of social, health and pensions. But at least it would be correct if all those talking about the spending brake would also explain where they wanted to brake. We are there burned children: We recall the years 2000 to 2006, where exactly in these areas the blue-black government has slowed down. We all know the 58 stress measures for the so-called small people in our country. We have achieved a dramatic reduction in the cost of the cereals and the taxation of the groups. If Mr Grillitsch spoke of class struggle today, I must say: It was precisely this policy that was class struggle in pure culture! We don't need this, ladies and gentlemen. What we need is a state that is justly distributing the burden, giving young people prospects and the older generation security. We should work together to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19103	Mrs Hellerer's next speech. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19124	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! We have a budget that is geared towards the given conditions, which has already been noted several times today. The dramatic situation of some countries in the euro area, which have lived over their conditions for years and have accumulated high public debt, and turbulence in financial markets have further aggravated the difficult situation. A spiral movement has come down, we have a crisis situation that has not passed through Austria and will not pass in the future. Yes, it is true, in Austria too, we now need 11 percent of our federal budget for interest payments. Therefore, a carefully designed, a serious, well-planned budget is needed. And that's exactly what's going on now. Mrs Finanzminister Maria Fekter rightly said yesterday in her budget speech: We need stable finances for a secure future! The 2011 budget, with the consolidation steps launched, set the first targets. This requires intensive further work, further steps of consolidation need to be taken in 2012, but at the same time efficient growth impulses must be set. The priorities of the budget have already been mentioned. In this budget, particular attention is paid to areas such as education, family, research, but also the areas of renewable energy and the environment. I would also like to address the agricultural budget very briefly. It's been called numbers from this one today. In 2012, a total of €2.145 billion is planned for agriculture, forestry, environment and water management. This corresponds to an increase of 3.7 million compared to the 2011 federal estimate. This includes agricultural direct payments, EU funds, payments of EU funds for rural development and the necessary co-financing. There will be no euro for farmers to stay in Brussels. Very briefly to Mr Jannach, who addressed the agricultural schools and found that there were increases in staff costs. Mr. Jannach, that's right! But if you say that in these schools the school numbers are going back, I have to tell you: That's not true! On the contrary: Agricultural schools have become rural schools, and many pupils – more than ever before! – visit these schools because they know that they get a good and well-founded training there, which they continue in other professions, especially in social professions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jannach.]] That's the reason! Look around in the agricultural schools, then you will see what services are provided there! You don't know each other. Before you talk about budgets and agricultural schools, I think you should deal with this matter more precisely. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jannach.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that we have a very responsible budget, which will ensure the stability of our country in particular.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19181	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19203	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by addressing a development in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I consider to be worthy of discussion. If you look at how the development is from 2011 to 2012, we see that there is €4 million less in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2012. And if you look at how the cuts will affect, for example, in the area of development cooperation, then it is hoped that the ADA funds were reduced by 7.4 million and those for international organisations by €5 million. This means that the funds for development cooperation around the triple of what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has less money in total, and from my point of view that is not really understandable, is not to be seen politically. I think this is a priority set that we need to discuss until we reach a decision on the budget. My further comments – which I would have liked to make in the presence of Mrs Finanzminister – concern payments to the International Financial Institutions. I believe that these payments are really very, very important and meaningful, not only in terms of development policy, but also in terms of funding. We know that by strengthening economic dynamics, for example, in Eastern Europe, we are also securing Austria's location, because many orders come from these areas, from this region. That is, with contributions to the International Financial Institutions, we also stimulate the Austrian economy and the Austrian export markets. The Swiss have tried to put this into figures, and have insisted that for each Swiss franc invested there are approximately 1.4 to 1.6 francs in return flows, and that Switzerland alone is invested in the international financial institutions to create about 20,000 to 29 000 jobs. That will be about the same dimension for Austria. In the context of the Austrian External Economic Programme, €84 million has been invested between 2003 and 2010. It can be prevented that about €800 million has flown back to the Austrian economy. So there is at least a factor 10 to carry, which is really very, very high. Investments in the IFIs, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, will bring about something that is very satisfied with the cooperation with the IFIs and which would also be further developed. The establishment of IFIs and other institutions in Vienna, for example the World Bank Bureau, creates direct jobs and provides exciting impetus. In short: The IFIs are an efficient and effective form of development cooperation. They also give small donors like us the opportunity to be involved in very large structural and relevant development projects, which are mostly of high quality. I therefore believe that further expansion of contributions to the IFIs would be very important and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19248	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19269	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, If you come to the speaker's desk at this budget debate with starting number 113, you can already reproduce on a lot of things. This debate was, as it was expected, marked by the fact that the opposition parties were once again overshadowed with new proposals that would cost all very, very much money. I can tell you: They are thus completely wrong with the population, because people increasingly say towards politics: Please don't promise something new every day, which you can't keep, because in the end we pay ourselves back anyway! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] You are all very creative in telling people how the money can come back, through new taxes, while we are clearly committed by the EIA to not introducing new taxes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have, and I would like to say this clearly and clearly, presented a budget which is a budget of generation-righteousness in two respects: for the young generation, for the next generation in the area of consolidation, in the area of the reduction of public debt, and for the older generation and for our families, where we have made clear priorities. I would like to mention just a few examples: the expansion of childcare facilities for children under the age of three, the dispensation of the care fund – a very, very important measure – and the focus on socially relevant areas. In addition to generation-righteousness, it is also important to ensure that there is a level playing field, where we set important impulses. We must continue to do so consistently in the future. We have to take measures here to ensure that the money comes to those people who actually need it. We must also take measures against social abuse and ensure that the money really reaches the right goal. The transparency database will be an important step. Since structural reforms are always the point of requiring serious measures in the system, I would like to say – and the Minister of Finance said that yesterday – that: When it comes to administration, it is the right way to take steps wisely, namely to take measures that make management more efficient and cost-effective. We do not like constantly calling for a major administrative reform, like some in the opposition or also in the media, without saying what it means, and without proposing concrete measures. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] After all, nothing comes out of it. We take one measure at a time, especially structural measures, and this brings a lot accordingly. Summary: A budget of generation-righteousness and fairness of performance – in short: a future budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19324	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19345	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Just about BMVIT, research, innovation and technology. I think we can point out here that there is really a real growth in this budget area. I would particularly like to highlight the areas of technology and research transfer. There the growth rate is more than 20 percent. The FFG investments will also rise again. I am particularly pleased that there will also be a programme for infrastructure research. In this sense, I am very optimistic for the next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19376	Next speaker: Mr Praßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19397	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! People must be able to build and rely on politics. Fears must be taken. Future prospects will be passed on, which will support and help. It is a lot better to think about solutions and then learn about implementation measures that bring improvements. The fight to secure our currency and our savings, the reduction of the deficit and stable finances are the right way. This secures Austria's future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need a policy of reliability, and this 2012 budget keeps a stable course, thank God! It is invested in the right areas such as education, family, science and research. In my view, these are forward-looking investments. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Too little!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Energy supply will gain in importance in the future. Increasing the share of renewable energy sources to 34 percent by 2020 is the right direction. The funding amount of about €100 million will be taken into account, and this can ultimately be very positive for our environment. Investment in our youth and in the family have a high priority and a high value. Ladies and gentlemen, for me it is out of question: The deficit must be reduced! In the state it is as in agriculture: You have to think about the next generation. For the next generation, a solid economy should also be possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19453	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19474	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I too, of course, have looked at the budget proposal more closely. €447.5 million will be allocated to the business sector. This is a slight increase last year, and of course it is beautiful, no question. This is especially nice because this increase in the amount of € 5 million benefits the film location-Austria. I am already in the area where I am looking for, namely in the creative economy, in the creative economy. This includes three, in principle, different sizes, which is why it does not make sense to design policy measures for the whole area. There is the great creative economy, which consists of national branches of multinational entertainment companies, the medium-sized creative economy, which consists of SMEs, and the small creative economy. I would like to look at these more closely today. This is composed of micro- and one-person companies that cooperate in loose networks. Of 520 000 members of the Chamber of Commerce, 240 000 are one-person companies. In recent years, there has been a group of self-employed people who are working hard, who are not well deserved and are still socially ill-secured. That is why urgent action and resources are needed. I'm just mentioning three here, and I'd like to go into this. Although self-employed pay as much into social security as they are self-employed, 7.65 percent of income, they get much less out of it and still have to pay for it. Secondly, There is currently no statutory sickness benefit for one-person companies which become unfit for work due to accident or illness. What does that mean? – At the latest one month after the beginning of the incapacity for work, the person concerned has no income, because all orders are gone and there is no one who could take over the job. Incapacity for work means threat of existence or social situation for the EPUs. Thirdly, pregnant women. They have drawn more than the A card as one-person companies. Currently, the weekly fee is only €26.26! It's so low that Unfortunately, many self-employed women cannot comply with the legal maternity protection of eight weeks before and after birth, otherwise the existence would be threatened. Sure, there's still a lot to say, but there's no time for it. In conclusion, however, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs, as a political leader for all one-person companies: Take over your responsibility and let us change these injustices together as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19523	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19544	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We heard a lot about the budget yesterday and today. The right course has been set to reduce the deficit in the longer term and to achieve appropriate efficiency gains and to focus on the other side. That was yesterday the absolutely right message from Mrs Finanzminister. This also applies to the judicial budget. It is certainly important to ensure appropriate funding in this area in terms of legal certainty for businesses, for citizens. That's what happens to this budget. The field of justice is one that is very high in itself, i.e. secures revenue accordingly. That is why, I believe, this is the right way to the future, even for the year 2012, especially as the corruption prosecutor's office is being further expanded, which is also a very important step for the economic location. However, I would like to take the opportunity to present two very specific concerns to the judicial system and to ask the Federal Government to act as a supporter. One is the problem of the judicial guard school, which is currently housed in the Wickenburggasse, where both existing accommodations and training and training facilities no longer meet the modern standard. There would be the possibility of finding accommodation in the former customs guard school in Erdberg. We have already referred this to the respective ministries, but unfortunately there is no final feedback yet. It would be very nice if we could find a common solution. This would also be very much in line with the principles of economy and the efficiency of implementation and management. The second concerns the district lawyers who carry out a very important task within the judicial system, which also saves because they can carry out important tasks that otherwise need to be fulfilled by prosecutors. It has succeeded in maintaining a legitimate concern, namely an upgrade to a corresponding classification, a B-value of the district lawyers. Unfortunately, the Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek has now had the additional service allowance, which she has always received for decades and which is also due to them, removed. I should therefore like to appeal to Mrs Heinisch-Hosek: There we are motivating! It is important to have also motivated staff in justice. Only then is a corresponding qua- I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19595	Next, Mr Kirchgatterer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19617	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Work, budget discipline, education are important social democratic priorities of the coalition budget. Labour, high employment, low unemployment also bring high purchasing power, and this purchasing power benefits small and medium-sized enterprises very much. Small and medium-sized enterprises: Of course, I support the concerns of my colleague Elisabeth Hakel. Equalizing the social security of self-employed with that of workers is an important concern. Secondly, budgetary discipline: The same applies throughout the year. That's what we're going to work on. The third point is education, training and training: Austria has a very, very good professional training. This is a great advantage in international comparison. I believe that building on it will also bring success for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19653	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19674	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! They say yes, hope dies the last time. A look at the list of speakers and the course of today, however, leaves little hope that at the end of this day, the opposition will turn away from political rituals practiced in favour of material debates. [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Then: Instead of a red and white-red shoulder closure to counter the difficult conditions that lie ahead of us, there is an old-known and little pleasure. There are blue phrases, orange populism and green upper teachers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is unfortunate, because what has been shown here today is certainly not good for dealing with difficult times. But you probably presented yourself here today under your possibilities. [[New calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] The budget speech of the Minister of Finance was quite different and pleasing for this. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with BZÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] Instead of the popularity of populist policy, the Minister of Finance has made clear what we stand for, what the government stands for. With this budget we stand for predictability, for reliability, for responsible policies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Focus is clearly placed on future issues. In concrete terms, this means more funding for research, education and science, more resources for families, for the labour market, but also for care and safety. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing is the gradual reduction of the deficit. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Not the debt, only the deficit will be reduced! The debt will be increased!]] It is probably the central task of this budget to gradually reduce the deficit, because it is also due to the unscrupulous government debt worldwide that there is a crisis-like and dramatic development in the financial markets. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there may be a lot of arguments on common tables, but they are unable to change reality. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I would like to ask you again at this point: Leave You this way, step in with us for these goals, we make a red-white-red shoulder closure! Austria is worth it!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19741	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19762	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! I believe that the basis for our budget is the triple A, which we are repeatedly confirmed by the credit rating agencies; and for that we need solid finances to be able to lay the foundation for a secure development of our state with the budget. The objective must be to continue Austria on the debt path and thus remain future fit. With the Federal Financial Framework Act, we have a law that allows us to plan budget development over several years and also to abandon developments. The primary objective, however, must be to reach less than 3 per cent in the deficit and to limit government debt to a maximum of 60 per cent, because this is the only way to create solid funding for the future of our state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] New taxes cannot be the way. We need to slow down expenditure. This is primarily about the structural problems we have. The pension sector has been mentioned many times. I want to address this too. The biggest problem of our time is demographic development. It is very nice that people get older and older, but it can't be that the working hours are less and shorter. We therefore need to stay in the working world longer in order to make a little progress on the economic side of the world. I also do not want to try the special privileges of the ÖBB, it is rich, I think, the privileges of the local authorities of Vienna, where there is a pension far 60 years ago. This is negligent in the economic sense. It is a lot of single levers that we must set in motion; and I believe we must allow innovations and massively counteract structurally negative developments.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19806	The next speaker was Mr Zanger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19827	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In short, to Mr. Coffee Sudreader: Mr. colleague up there, you must now be glad that you have such a constructive opposition. You only need a few of these proposals that we are making, and it would be all in butter, then we would have an excellent budget. We just want to help you, because you don't get anything together yourself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This afternoon we had a very in-depth debate on EU finances. I have heard yesterday from the Minister for Finance that the Republic is on its own. Take a safe course. I dare to doubt it. The question is whether Austria will survive this crisis. Who knows what's going on with Greece? If this continues to happen and if the liability frameworks are raised in this way, removed, implemented, then I have my doubts. Dec In addition, I see a problem in the fact that Mrs Minister is deaf when it comes to implementing demands by renowned experts such as WIFO and OECD, who think it would be useful to reduce taxes on work, put on the strengthening of purchasing power and get tax on it. The Minister said that it is “high time to relieve the middle class”. These are just empty words, nothing is done in this budget. On the contrary: For example, the increase in pay in the number of metallurgists is strongly co-definced, and some others still follow. We liberals demand a reduction in the entry tax rate from 36 to 25 percent, the maximum tax rate should only reach €80 000 instead of €60 000, and the introduction of a family tax division would, of course, be quite, very important and would be very important in times like these for our families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, Veit Worger, the president of the Industrial Union, has said it's over. “There will be no margin for economic packages. The powder has been shot.” Yesterday we heard from the Minister that we still have room for further crises. In my opinion, it is negligent not to boost the economy here in Austria and to keep room for manoeuvre for perhaps more money to be thrown out of the window in Greece. The investment exemption as an investment incentive for self-employed and entrepreneurs had been reintroduced. As far as the administrative reform is concerned, a small teaching to Mr Hammer, who obviously does not yet have the insight: The Court of Auditors has presented over 300 proposals for administrative reform in a clear, great book. I would recommend that as a reading. It would be implemented. We don't need the little steps. But you're obviously only capable of taking small steps. Then, of course, it is clear that a little paralysed in government work. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] One point is that I am concerned about the communities that are supposed to organize themselves in a way that is administratively efficient. On page 22, Ms Fekter writes of 2 357 Austrian communities. I can calm you down: In a few weeks or months, this will be much less. The great red and black reform partnership in Styria is driving over the population. It doesn't matter to her that people are losing identity and infrastructure. There communities are forced to merge, and the mayors, who should actually do so, do not allow much time to participate independently, to be silenced by a reasonable project support. I fear that a structural reform in rural areas will not be possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am very excited about one of the last sentences that the Minister spoke yesterday. She writes: “We need a tax system so that everyone can direct his own life.” What this is supposed to be, she doesn't say. But I already feel secure from her if she knows at all that a state needs a tax system. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In conclusion and in summary, it may be said that this government is the biggest deficit that can be reduced very quickly. The population will take care of it. I would like to give a reply to the debate on the hymn of last night, just before 3 p.m. Small Styrian saying: "Are you looking for a daughter, sons, take a baby, take a beautiful one!"
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19926	Mr Markowitz spoke on a second speech. Entered for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19948	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, yes, you are right, we from the BZÖ have not yet spoken about disabled people. I'm going to get this now. But you must not forget one thing: Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, our spokesperson for the disabled, spoke intensively yesterday on the subject. Of course, I also looked at the subject in the budget. You did it too, I suppose. I have to say that I would have expected much more from social democracy. You also know why: because it's about the naked numbers now. When I look at them, the following shows: 2008: € 80 million per year; 2009: € 72 million; 2010: € 72 million; 2011: € 70 million and 2012: 50 million €! Yeah, we know why, and I'll tell you one thing: Putting yourself out here and just pretending as if you had nothing to do with it, especially social democracy, that is too little for me. Because who is it? – The poorest of the poor, the people who are already disadvantaged in this country, people who, in order to come to work, often have to take long distances. We have a lot of good friends who are affected and who have to take the train in Carinthia from Spittal to Villach so they can work. And they like to do it, they do it with pride and great joy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'm gonna tell you something, and it's clear: I'm not going to let anyone say that the BZÖ is not working for people with disabilities. And I'll tell you something: It is far too little that at the “Day of Light”, a very important and good action, the Federal Minister stands on the stand and gives the start. He's supposed to run with him himself! I went along – and these are things that we are very happy to do for the good thing. Great announcement to join us next year, but on the other hand, when it comes to budgetary spending, when it comes to supporting the people who are not so good at being the first to delete something, we find that last-class. But we also look at that even more closely in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e19990	Now comes Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20020	Madam President. High house! [[Bravorufe near SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] Fekter, Pröll, Molterer, everyone said pretty much the same thing. I would like to remind you: Debts are the most unsocial there is. – Originalton Finanzminister Pröll. Or: We can't spend more than we take. - Originalton Molterer. Or yesterday: If you think about tomorrow, you have to start with not putting a backpack on our kids today. – Mrs Fekter. Now I've wondered something because all these finance ministers are always talking about that we can't make any more debts, that we finally have to re-reduce the debt that debt-making can't work in the long run. All these three finance ministers are talking about it, but they are doing the exact opposite. Now I've made the effort to look at something in history. There have been many ÖVP finance ministers in the past, and I have had to go back 50 years. I had to go back 50 years and found an ÖVP finance minister who not only spoke but also followed actions, and that was 1961 – almost on the day exactly 50 years ago – Josef Klaus. I looked at his budget speech. I even got her here if she wants to see someone. [[Calls:Read! Speak]] At the time, Josef Klaus coined the saying: You can't spend more than you take in the long term. And all the others subsequently referred to this saying. Only the difference was that Josef Klaus acted as well. He acted at a time when we had to pay huge costs for reconstruction and other war costs. At that time he managed to achieve a balanced budget. And it was still embarrassing to him – the original quote – that he could not achieve any surplus. You have to imagine that! The whole thing has to be considered in view of the fact that today our Minister of Finance is producing itself here, in a situation that is much, much, much easier than at the time, and that it is not able to provide a balanced budget, yet its predecessors and also her repeatedly confess, that is exactly what we must do. The Lord's Head also says it again and again: Debts are the most unsocial thing there is. Pröll has said that again and again. Fekter says that again and again, but she only announces she doesn't do anything. That's the problem. Mrs Fekter says she wants to secure our prosperity. Only what it is doing is at risk of prosperity, because it is unable to address the reforms that enable us to achieve at least a balanced budget. I'm not saying we're paying the debt back. We have to do that one day. I know the SPÖ colleagues don't believe that. They don't think we ever have to repay our debts, but I can guarantee you, we have to. The first step would be a balanced budget, but it does not even make it. Even a negative primary balance, as we have already heard, brings it about, and we are even worse there than Greece. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Where do you want to save the 8 billion?]] And the whole thing in front of the background that huge dark clouds raise on the horizon. We are facing a huge problem in the area of interest rate increases. That means that we must definitely expect interest to rise by at least 2.3 percent in the next few years. Now we know that 1 percent is €2 billion more in interest payments. So we expect 6 billion € more payments. Moreover, the economic situation will break down strongly, as all countries will be saved, and as we see in Greece and other countries, the economy will be affected. That means that we too will flourish. This will flourish all over the Western world. Likewise, at this time the credit rating agencies stand by foot to punish us if we do not do our homework. It's going to be forgotten here, too. Mrs Fekter said yesterday: The credit rating agencies are arbitrators distributing yellow and red cards. – Yes, we will get the yellow or the red card at some point. And then what will happen? That is why we need to do our homework today and, as Mrs Fekter has announced, we must not continue to make debts until 2015. By 2013, it does not want to reduce the debt ratio, which is already 72 percent. No, it still wants to raise it to 75.5%. You have to imagine that. Mrs. Minister is not here today, maybe she can do this to someone. She also said she wanted to look beyond the edge of the plate and not just think in a legislative period. Now it has probably meant that it wants to take action only during the next legislative period, because what it has now presented is nothing but an inventory analysis, just as the Molterer has done, just as the Molterer has done. All just made an inventory analysis, they said: We are a high tax country, we have problems in the pension sector, in the health sector, in almost all areas, in the administration where you look. But there are no solutions in this budget, not one. That's why: Not just talking, putting it into practice is the foreign exchange! I read here that the Hospital Reform Group will present the first results in 2012: Yes, please, what do we need a reform group for? – Everyone knows what to do in the hospital area. We do not need to wait for 2012 until first results are available. We know what to do! Or in the case of pensions: She said it wouldn't go out in the long run. - So what? Yeah, it's not going to work out. Where are the reforms? Where are they? – Not available! The very best is social security. She writes: We owed them. Then she says – it's not in the script at all – that she said: and half reformed. They have only partially reformed them. This is a success story of debt reduction and cost reduction, she says. That means she just poured every hole with money, and that's what she's selling us as a success here. Or: Modernising the administration, preventing costs explosion at ÖBB. - Everything just announcements, there's nothing coming. Mr. Kopf also said something that was interesting: The taxes must be reduced. Now, about half a year ago, the Swiss delegation was with us, and I asked them how they managed to consolidate the budget without tax increases. Do you know what they said? – You would have liked to raise taxes, but this is not feasible in Switzerland. That's why they had to make reforms. Why write Don't you think that's what you're doing? Forget new taxes! Go on the reforms! This is the same way that we can consolidate the budget accordingly. Finally, the Minister also announced her vision. She said: We need a tax system so that everyone can direct his own life. – So if you look at the budget this way and if you look at what problems we will have in the future, from demographic development to cost explosion in many areas to problems with Greece and with the euro, then this announcement is that everyone should take over the direction in his life, almost like a dangerous threat. For it will have to be directed by everyone himself if he no longer gets his pension and has to see for himself how he gets over the rounds, and if he loses his savings and then stands on the street and has corresponding problems. Then he will have to take over direction in his life, because the Minister of Finance is apparently unable to do the homework and submit a budget that is appropriate to the problems we have. Mrs. Minister, what you're doing is a symptom fight. You don't pick up the roots, you make a symptom fight. They do it like a homeo-path that fights the same thing with the same. You're trying to fight a debt crisis with even more debt, and I can guarantee you that it won't work.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20086	Mr Brosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20108	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to speak in the context of the debate on the media, because of the futility of the course of these debates, and I would like to point out on several occasions that both the establishment of the agenda for yesterday's sitting, which ended just before 3 p.m., and the form, as we debate the first reading on the budget, are not exactly optimal, and the criticism of very high approval has come to a close. Klubobmann Kopf has said several times in the context of this debate that he also believes that debates do not make sense until 3 a.m. in the morning. – I share that, the Green Group shares that. It makes no sense, I believe, to hold debates with 120 speakers here without bringing a structure into the debate. The point is less that there is an ideological debate, it's more the problem that we do it every year than we did in the year before. There have been several good proposals in the past, including from you. I believe that it was also the subject of the President of the Council to have more dates for meetings. It must also be said that we had the following problem: If you cancel a session appointment, immediately the criticism of the media comes: Now they're not gonna do anything again! You can see it all. I would suggest that we take this issue seriously after these two days. I would also suggest that we do so in a different form, not just on club proposals, but on involving Members that we try to propose models, to consult Members in order to change this form of debate. It must be possible in a Parliament to set a time limit where you stop at a reasonable time. It must be possible to set agendas in such a way that we can discuss them wisely and that all those who are there until the end can follow the debates in the appropriate spiritual form. It would be high time for this to be resolved at last. I therefore propose this again, because the President is now at the Bureau. I think we should also discuss this in the presidency and take these two days seriously, also with regard to the next budget debates. A second comment to the conclusion: Mr Lugar, as a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, you are entitled to use the speaking time as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. However, I think it is inappropriate that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the House de facto, a single representative can use more speaking time in one day than a whole group. I believe that we should also review the Rules of Procedure, because the extent of what you are adopting here simply exceeds every measure.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20148	Deputies! I'd like to grab it. I'm assuming that all the club people are taking care of this. I also share your view, that it may be the same next year if it is not quickly tried to find an agreement already for the next year. It is therefore better to come to a constructive solution rather quickly. That's in my mind. [[Abg. Ing. Lugar goes to the Bureau and speaks again.]] Before we quickly see how much remaining time Mr Lugar has left, I can assure you that we will discuss this very thoroughly and very carefully. I promise to all Members. 50 seconds remaining speaking time for Mr Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20187	I notice with great horror that I have spoken twice for 10 minutes today, twice 10 minutes a day. Now I've been using the last 50 seconds to point out one thing: If it is a problem in this House that someone is involved in the discussion, perhaps with a position that is not shared by all, perhaps with a position that is not shared by a political group with a political force, and which is then immediately limited by all those who feel bothered by it, then, I think, it is really a strong piece. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is only a problem for the Greens!]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I spoke only two or three times yesterday. I could have spoken thirty times yesterday. I have so much feeling to say, okay, I don't overclaim that, and I proved it yesterday. But, as it were, to make a restriction on Members who speak without belonging to clubs, that is unworthy of a Parliament, and I would really regret it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20228	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I assign the Government's proposal to the Committee on Budgets in 1405. [[21:15:16]] 2. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Salzburg Procuratorate (16 St 183/11y) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler(1,496 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20270	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There is no mention of words here. We therefore vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 1496 to decide on the following: "In consideration of the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office Salzburg, GZ 16 St 183/11y, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler will be in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthalerbestands." I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:16:37]] 3rd. Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the Landesgericht für Präsidenten Graz (5 Hv 109/11p) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Wolfgang Zanger (1497 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20331	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one is reported in the word. We therefore come to the vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 1497 to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Landesgericht für Präsidenten Graz, GZ 5 Hv 109/11p, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Wolfgang Zangerwerd in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the private prosecutor’s alleged criminal act and the parliament’s political activity as National Councillor Wolfgang Zanger, and therefore no official persecution of the Member of the National Council Wolfgang Zanger.’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:18:05]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20386	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Stadler, Dr. Rosenkranz, Amon, Dr. Jarolim on the establishment of an investigation committee to clarify corruption. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20478	We are therefore going into the debate. In the sense of § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. We are already in the debate, too, and Mr Petzner as the first signatory is given the floor for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20508	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the point of this proposal, which we are going to adopt together today and, I assume, will be decided unanimously? – It is about starting a cleaning process that this country, which this Republic urgently needs. It is about restoring confidence in policy, which has been largely lost. And not least, it is a question of meeting the expectations of the Austrians who are rightly calling on Parliament to fulfil the most appropriate tasks, namely parliamentary control and information. These three points are concerned, ladies and gentlemen. The establishment of this Committee of Inquiry to clarify corruption is a first small, but very important, and crucial step to implement these three points I have mentioned here. It will be one of the largest investigation committees in the Second Republic. It will also be one of the most important research committees, because we are dealing with one of the largest corruption complexes in the Second Republic. Seven research items will be dealt with in this Committee, five mandates of the SPÖ, five mandates of the ÖVP, three mandates of the Freedom Party, two Greens and one BZÖ representative. The seven research items are: first: the Telekom area and the incidents in this context that I am not doing here – the application is available to you; second: the sale procedure for the BUWOG; third: the government radio network; fourth: the switching of advertisements by close-to-state companies since 2006; fifth: the switching of advertisements by ministries since 2000; sixth: the attempt to easing the gambling monopoly and the question of payment flows and interventions in this context; seventh: the awarding of citizenship and corresponding interventions and possible flows of money in this context. What connects all these seven research objects, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is always about investigating allegations of corruption, of enrichment to the Republic, and hence of taxpayers, of illegal party financing, of influence and of intervention by lobbyists or similar persons in an incorrect, non-governmental and, above all, massively democratic and financially harmful manner. For the BZÖ, ladies and gentlemen – and I wish that of all the political groups – I can say that we want to clarify comprehensively and mercilessly, no matter what time it is, completely regardless of what person it is, and above all, which party it is concerned with, and I also include my own party. At this point, I should like to appeal to all parties, to all members of this committee, if we are using this Committee of Inquiry today, to make their contribution to the fact that this merciless comprehensive information actually takes place, and also to express their willingness to declare that they do not want to protect their own ranks, their own spheres of influence. I think that is very, very important, only then can such an investigation committee succeed. I also say what this committee of inquiry should not be, ladies and gentlemen: This investigation committee should not be an arena for party-political mud battles. It should not be a place for the maintenance of personal profile neurosis of individual mandates. [[Abg. Rädler: Stadlers say!]] And in this committee of inquiry, there should also be no room for postage chess that we have experienced in the last few days. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also say at this point that I am convinced that no party should and will beat a party political profit from this investigation committee. The only one who can win, who is to win and who has to win, is our Republic of Austria, is our country, is our home. It is a question of preventing, in the future, operations and conditions which harm this Republic, the taxpayer, the reputation of our home country Austria, through this Committee of Inquiry. This goal must have this committee of inquiry – and no other, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Unfortunately, in the last few days, I have had to find that the start does not correspond to what I expected and hoped for. It is a committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen, and not a Moser committee, I would like to make it clear at this point. What do I want to say? . The Committee of Inquiry shall have the task of examining what the name says and not of running any post checks in the field of the Presidency. I am very sorry that this has taken place in the last few days, because the media focus has also focused solely on who should take the presidency and who should not hold it. The BZÖ was the only political group, and I would also like to say this at this point, which did not take part in these mail chess companies, but has always said: We want to look into it, we want to clarify it as quickly as possible, that right now, and therefore we do not participate in post-chachering as far as the Presidency is concerned. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this respect, I should like to urge the political groups which have so far participated and have still not reached agreement on this, to end these checks and finally to agree on a presidency. We are completely neutral, we are either relative or, in fact, totally no matter who holds the presidency. As a compromise, we have proposed a SPÖ representative, we have also proposed an independent judge and an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. We also accept Mrs Moser or others, but at last we want to start the investigation. We have a lot of work ahead of us, and that should be the task of this committee of inquiry. I wish after a bad start, that we start this work all the more quickly and that committee of inquiry meets its purpose and purpose, which I have carried out. [[Abg. Neugebauer: The start is only coming after we have decided!]] Finally, I should like to appeal to the members of this committee, and in particular to the representatives of the media, and to ask them that there be not only serious, factual and independent work in this committee of inquiry, but also serious, factual and well-founded reporting. Again: I do not want to kill mud, nor in the media, but we all have the interest to restore confidence in politics after this massive loss of confidence. This will not succeed in the slaughter of mud, it will not succeed by mutual attacks in the media, but it can only succeed if all parties, through material, serious work, declare their will that they are 100 percent willing to clarify, investigate and stop the conditions that exist. I conclude with a quote from Friedrich Nietzsche, who said that he should accompany this investigation committee as a “roof” – he wrote it in a book: [[Abg. Rädler: Beige has lived!]] “In all the institutions in which the sharp air of public criticism does not blow into it, corruption grows like a mushroom!” – ladies and gentlemen, this mushroom must be combated, we work together for it. [[General hustle and bustle.]] The fungus of corruption I mean, you understand the quote correctly. It is important to combat this fungus of corruption and to collect these many swams in all the colors that have grown here in recent years and to see that they do not grow. In this sense: Let's do it and let's go! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20606	Next, Mr Jarolim. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is now 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20627	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very brief, it will probably become a slightly longer committee. The agenda items that we will have to deal with here are very comprehensive. I believe that it is certainly also a question of the reputation of this House, in that I am able to thank Mr Petzner. And we all know how the current surveys on politics as a whole look – anything but intoxicating. I mean, we're here on air, so we're in the media in the next time, and it's certainly up to us that we're also giving a corresponding impression that we're doing this objectively, with all the contradictions of the issues and also our positions at one point or another. But I think it is important that we show that we are able to deal with aspects of the past in the way it simply corresponds to a worthy form, and I am also very confident. We have also had a successful meeting today. We will solve the problems that have been raised in due time. I am not concerned that we will not move forward quickly, but we will take decisions right from the start, which will enable us to do a comprehensive work, which can, however, also be done quickly. That is what I wish us to be the High House in this sense, because this is also representative of all of us. And I also wish, Mr Petzner, that this not only applies to the Committee, what you have said here, and that this also applies to all the parties here in the Council. their home applies, in particular to your behaviour, also to the behaviour of those people who may currently be on a football field. Then we will certainly develop positively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20664	Mr Amon is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20685	Madam President. First of all, on the positive side – in itself, a committee of inquiry is not just a bit encouraging, so first of all on the positive things. I think it is positive that we are working together on this investigation committee, that we have agreed on the order of the topics and the content, that we will jointly appoint a procuring officer and that we have agreed that in the next few days we will have discussions with the heads of the Chief Prosecutor's Office and the Procurator's Office in order to ensure an exchange of information so as to avoid any mutual disability in the investigations. The Presidency's question: Of course, Personalia is always the most interested. There is no agreement today, but we agreed that at least we want to reach an agreement until the next plenary session. In fact, it is an extremely complex subject of investigation. Mr Petzner has clearly outlined all the seven points that are dealt with in this committee of inquiry. And there are accusations against all parties, even that one must say, which are more or less disputed. This is not a reputation at all, it is not a pleasant thing, and we therefore need to see together that we ensure as objective a reconnaissance as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But this also means that we need a clear structure in the investigation. That means we have a very intense work in front of us. This means that we operate systematically perfectly in the process. I would like to say to Mr Petzner: There is no post office chess for the Presidency, but there are two candidates who have been officially nominated so far: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer, who was once chairman of an investigation committee, and Mrs. Dr. Moser. And by the hour there is no majority for both candidates. So this is not a wild post-chapter, it is a fact, and I think it is simply necessary for us to work together to find a solution until the next plenary session. And then we should get into the investigations quickly. I think it is necessary for us to do so calmly and as objectively as possible, so that we do not make it a party-political small war. Then this can also be a common new beginning for all in the sense of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20731	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20753	High house! Madam President. This request was made by four parties, and it will be decided unanimously, as the previous speakers have said, that is necessary. The Austrian citizens, as well as the media, expect Parliament to fulfil its control function in the political field, within the framework of political responsibility. There is criminal responsibility and there is political responsibility. And we are here to unsuspectingly expose this political responsibility in this unpleasant, unscrupulous and absolutely condemnable area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All the more so, we liberals prefer this Enlightenment, because we liberals - and I can say this from here - since 2005, since the era HC rhinestone, can be explained with fug and law [[Call the ÖVP: Previously not?]] We have absolutely nothing to do with these painters that have happened until then! That's what we've solved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There can also be no change in any archeological work of my colleague Pilz in 2004, 2002, 1999, 1874, 1510 or anything else. The party of HC Strache is clean, and this is a promise I can make here for all my colleagues. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Washing machine!]] The climate in the preparations was a correspondingly good one. We have done very objectively. We have also used a new style, for example, we have dealt with the question of the possibility of removing the public prosecutor's concerns in the form that Parliament is offensively addressing the prosecutor's office and saying: Where are your concerns that we can't find out? Only one – I can say that from here as well: There will not be a premeditation of the Deputies by the Procuratorate. This has also been a unanimous opinion in the Committee's preliminary work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the question of the Presidency, because this is obviously the greatest and most significant thing in the media perception. It's right, there's only two candidates from opposition parties up to now. We believe, and this is our right, that a Member of us is in the person of Peter Fichtenbauer, but there are still others in our ranks, the experience, the reputation, the integrity and the recognition of other political groups in order to be just as chairman. It's an offer from our party. Just one thing: We do not want one to say that the Presidency is allowed to a party. That's the wrong way, as we think. We want one of the people, and there are a total of 183 here. It will be possible once again to find among these 183 a person who will also achieve a majority in the coalition! [[Abg. Rädler: Rosary!]] Peter Fichtenbauer is a candidate. – Thank you for the flowers, but you know how it is when you are praised by the wrong side. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Don't worry, I'm in the committee myself and I'm going to work to ensure that as much as possible can be explained objectively. And that's also in the sense of the matter. We need a chairman or a chairman who will bring the necessary objectivity to this Presidency. [[Call the SPÖ:Bravo!]] And there we were simply of the opinion that Mrs. Moser has leaned too much in the past. I would ask you to explain this. Mrs Moser has done excellent investigative work in this whole complex. I would like her to sit inside as a questioner and put her knowledge there and not be bound as a chairperson. For one thing is not possible: to hold the Presidency, to deal objectively, in particular with information subjects, and to make the detective at the same time. We don't think this can be in a person. And there, Mrs. Moser has already talked about Karl-Heinz Grasser's judgment – quote. Not that Karl-Heinz Grasser is at my heart, but can you really imagine that Mrs. Moser, when he comes, will have the necessary equivalent to him? – That’s not our opinion in itself. And it's our opinion, that must be permissible. Finally, the question of the Presidency will be decided by a vote on who will receive the majority in the Committee. And nothing else will happen. And there's one thing I've got to say: The media attention given to Mrs. Dr. Moser is already supposed to be in a direction that you say the media want the woman Moser. So that seems to me to be very remarkable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] All you have to do is ask: Please, how good is she? No one has asked me how good Peter Fichtenbauer is or anything else. [[Abg. Strache: Because everyone knows how good he is!]] Only one thing you won't be able to take from me: I've never chosen green – why should I do it this time? It is certainly also an ideological question. But one thing we don't want: We do not want a double conference of Moser/Pilz, chairman and questioner, and the danger is great. Peter Pilz is talking to me. I hope we will not need any actual corrections afterwards. He's the last one on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20874	Mr Pilz, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Pilz on his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e20896	How do I help the esteemed colleague Rosenkranz now out of this – admittedly – difficult situation? Let me make an attempt. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's easy with us!]] First of all: I am very glad that we have taken the first step. It is important that the Committee of Inquiry not only be set up but that it comes to this decision unanimously. This is important for this house and for the start of the investigation. Secondly, I also welcome the fact that, from different motives, but with the same result, some Members, some political groups have even shown some sort of brave commitment by agreeing to this committee of inquiry. Thank you for that. I know that it has not been easy for some and it is not easy to do so, because some political groups have to expect a lot in this committee of inquiry and also have some of their most prominent representatives to answer. The question of the Presidency must concern us. It makes a difference whether a representative of a party who is likely to be politically responsible for most of these affairs – and that is not easy to put away; that is one and the same party – is holding the chair and one cannot at present say whether the lawyer who is proposed here has the function of the defender of his own group or can actually hold an independent Presidency. It is important for perfect impartiality to eliminate any danger that a chairman or a chairman must take account of the interests of his own party. [[Abg. Strache: Have you read the “NEWS ” today? Moser and Langthaler!]] We have often discussed this enough why Gabi Moser is the case; I do not want to repeat it. We will discuss this even further, we will need two or three rounds of negotiations. Mr Rosenkranz, I would just like to ask you to consider one argument. If you say Gabi Moser has leaned too far: Yes, if she hadn't leaned so far, we wouldn't have anything to examine! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It would be simple and just nothing. [[Abg. Strache: In today’s “NEWS” something completely different has become visible! The best contacts to Deutsche Telekom!]] And, Mr Rosenkranz, the question of the Presidency is not a question of equivalence between corruption and fairness, an equidistance between Karl-Heinz Grasser and a serious leadership of the business in the Ministry of Finance. This is not a question of equidistance. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But pre-condemnification!]] It is only the question of the proper Presidency of the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, and I trust that if we were to restrict it to both. In my opinion, Gabi Moser has only one advantage to Dr. Fichtenbauer: We have to deal mostly with black and blue coalition affairs, and that is why we now have a special problem. The problem is that until today – and I would have liked it to be different – there is a blue-black blockade for the election of a chairman. [[Abg. Wheeler: Here you go!]] I do not think, formally, Mr Rosenkranz, because you have the right formally to do what you want in this House in the preparation of the committee. But think about one thing: Since your party and the Austrian People's Party bear the primary responsibility for the affairs we have to deal with, it is at least politically not for you to hinder the work of the Committee now through a black and blue blockade in the election of the Presidency. [[Abg. Strache: You already have the responsibility for Mrs. Langthaler!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that's a real problem. What are the Committee's main tasks – and we hope we will agree again? Reconnaissance, repair, and start anew. To clarify, we will still have a lot of work in front of us in parallel to the criminal courts. Underestimation You are not the question of reparation! We have the opportunity to get back perhaps hundreds of millions from the BUWOG to other mentioned affairs, such as government radio, and we should not easily give up on this opportunity, especially in view of a budget debate where we have seen how close the funds in this Republic are. And the latter is particularly important: This is a fresh start with the sharpest anti-corruption laws in the European Union! If, as a result of the Committee of Inquiry, we create precisely these laws – laws on illegal party funding, laws against party accounting, then this Committee of Inquiry has done something that has not succeeded in many legislative periods, namely to establish a new confidence of people in politics also in this House. [[President Mag. Prammer repeatedly gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e21031	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Stadler, Dr. Rosenkranz, Amon, Dr. Jarolim on the establishment of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:44:05]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00126_d7e21064	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 1710/A to 1712/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 9526/J to 9602/J were also raised. Finally, a question by Mr Stefan Markowitz, ladies and gentlemen, 65/J-PR, has been sent to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 21.45 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. The sitting is closed.
