ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e1644	Good day, ladies and gentlemen! I'm opening the 122. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 120 and 121. Meeting of 30 March 1990 In September 2011, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. Deputies from Köfer, Dr. Matznetter, Dr. Bartenstein, Hörl, Neugebauer, Ing. Hofer, Brosz, Dr. Grünewald, Windbüchler-Souschill, Schenk and Dr. Königshofer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e1675	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Rudolf Hundstorfer is the Federal Minister for Health Alois Stöger and the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. [[10:17:08]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e1720	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:17:22]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2083	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration to be given to the self-employed amendment 1685/A(E) by Mr Strache, fellow Members, concerning the holding of popular surveys. The request for urgent action will be made at 1.15 p.m. [[10:17:41]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2108	Before entering the agenda, I would like to inform the House that Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on Amendment 945/A(E) by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on ‘Gläser Party Banks’ be limited to 14. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. I announce that the meeting will be broadcast live from ORF2 to 16 o'clock and from TW1 to the fullest. I am now interrupting the sitting until 1.15 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2166	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session and ask you to take your seats. [[13:16:37]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on the holding of popular surveys (1685/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2204	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1685/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2278	I now give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Strache as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2299	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call to the ÖVP – in the direction of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Karl –:Dame, who is taking part in the government bank]] – Madame too, yes! It is important for us, as part of today's special meeting, to push forward the subject of direct democracy here too, because it is necessary and important to finally live direct democracy in our country and ensure the mechanisms for it. It has therefore been convened by us today for this special meeting under the title “Direct democracy instead of red and black stopover, Mr. Federal Chancellor!”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's really amazing: When we were nine days ago, on 3rd. In October, this special meeting for more direct democracy requested, representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP, but also of the Greens, have almost missed their zeal to raise demands for direct democracy again and again. That is quite pleasing, but these are exactly those parties that have so far rejected almost every one of our requests and have not expressed their support for direct democracy in many areas. When it comes to calling for concrete binding referendums, for example on the issue of the European Rescue and Liability Screen, or when it comes to popular surveys, we have always had to experience in this Ho-hes House that unfortunately God's representatives from SPÖ, ÖVP, but also from the Greens have rejected these direct-democratic instruments. Today's session will therefore also be a sample of nails for you, because today we have the opportunity to finally implement direct democracy together in our country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if you really mean this seriously and do not just give lip confessions to the best, then you will certainly announce this today to him your voting behaviour! At the moment, one is rather living the practice of avoiding direct democracy at all costs, one is afraid of the people's decision on many questions. On the contrary, SPÖ and ÖVP are trying to make our country – in some areas – even more undemocratic, as last but not least the eternal red hope of the SPÖ, Mrs Laura Rudas, has proved with her call for a majority voting right. According to the motto: If the results of the elections do not fit us, then we will change the right to vote until it is no longer representative and one has bent it so that perhaps, even if you do not have the majority by far, you can make other majority for yourself possible. Of course, one cannot expect such a party to stand for more democracy, but perhaps, before the next election, the Federal Chancellor will write a personal letter to a large daily newspaper of Austria, a letter of readers, in which he promises again, as in 2008, that he will make a referendum, a referendum on important and essential questions and changes, including the European Treaty that concerns us, possible – for he has already promised many things, until then unfortunately, held nothing in this question of God. It should not be surprising if, according to a survey conducted by the IMAS Institute, only 5 percent of Austrians are still “very strong” for politics, or 21 percent of Austrians are still at least “strong” interested in politics, but nearly three-quarters of the population today turn away from politics, especially from this government policy, since one has to experience that politics is being pursued against the interests of the Austrian population and one is not prepared to involve one’s own population in decision-making processes. Simply go over your own population, which is your motto in many areas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we should not be surprised if three-quarters of the Austrians today are increasingly coldening the political events and actions of this Austrian Federal Government, much worse, more and more indignantly turning away from such political mechanisms. According to the IMAS study, the population has never been so interested in politics. It is said in the IMAS report that especially the 16 to 29-year-olds show less and less interest in political events. This is where all of us should be alarmed, because democracy lives, of course, on the participation of the people. It lives on the fact that people are interested in politics, but it also lives on the fact that we also involve the people, the citizens, even the people, and in the end we also live what is enshrined in our constitution, namely that the law has gone out and gone out of the people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is exactly what the Austrian people are missing today, and there is no blame for people if more and more are turning away from such political mechanisms. Finally, you have to experience almost daily painfully and experience that the red and black government – I am now saying quite consciously: with the green intestine – is not at all interested in what the population thinks. The fact that you are crossing the Austrian interests has become obvious in many areas and has become quite obvious on the basis of the rescue shield, which affects all of us significantly. Today, billions are spent on bank speculators and Pleite States, and the EU treaties are explicitly broken. In addition, an attempt is being made to launch a transfer union against the interests of the Austrians. And there, SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens send our tax billions to the so-called rescue shield, which is in fact a defit shield. But do you ask the people about it? Is the opinion of the population taken seriously? Let the people vote? – No, that has so far been rejected by SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens. That shows how seriously you take direct democracy, namely not at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You don't fit in to let the people decide. They are afraid of the population and their decision-making power. It is also the so-called basic democrats of the Greens, who are quite maligned in this question, because the Greens are only for democracy if they are somehow ideologically fit in. But when it comes to existential issues, there is nothing to do with direct democracy, because one wants to explain to one's own people how one has demonstrated this with the voting behaviour of the last few weeks and months. We are therefore today introducing a whole package of measures for more direct democracy, for binding direct-democratic processes, because we have been calling for more direct democracy for decades. There are enough areas of application for this. We also see it as the only way to make people more interested in politics again, even as a rescue anchor for necessary democratic developments in our home country, in order to motivate people, to inspire them, also to show them that they have a right of participation, that they should also have an initiative right to enforce mandatory referendums against the will of Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is an extension and expansion of democracy rather than a reduction in democracy, as we are experiencing today. At last, the population of Austria wants to have the opportunity to decide, to form more closely. It does not just want to go to one election every few years – as you have decided to do at national level in national elections instead of every four years every five years. That's too little. One wants to actively co-design and decide on important questions. People want to be involved and enough to be decided across their heads. This was also very, very clearly expressed by the ORF-Citizen Forum, where all club members were invited. We liberals expressly do not want anger citizens, we want courage citizens. It doesn't help anyone to be angry. We must be courageous to change our home country's wrong decisions and misdevelopment processes, to oppose them. Then you can achieve something, even in our country, and that's exactly what we stand for. We want courageous citizens who are willing to stand up and oppose these misdevelopment processes together with us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What really is against the fact that in my year there are three, four or more people polls or direct-binding referendums, what is against them? – Nothing speaks against it. I see now, almost in front of my spiritual eye, many representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP come out here and repeat: It all costs so much money! They will, as it were, lament what costs would be incurred, and say that people cannot believe that they will be involved in direct-democratic decision-making processes. But democracy costs something, and it must be worth it to us. Elections are also expensive, and yet we do – yes, because we have to confess democracy and invest in democracy too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When it comes to the European Union and to the Euro-Using and Deliberation Screen, it is not too expensive for you either, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. It is not too expensive for you when it comes to the Austrian tax money, which you then spend very, very lightly, even though we have a dramatic over-indebtedness in Austria today, although Triple A could be quite dangerous to us and although we need every tax centre in the country today. It is not too expensive for you to transfer billions towards the Member States, to Greece or towards various bank speculators. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's exactly what upsets people! In concrete terms, we want the binding referendum on the European Transfer Union which we have so often called for. The European Court of Human Rights is already dealing with a complaint filed by me against the Euro Protection Screen and the looting instrument that has taken place there. I say: Respect for the Slovaks, respect for Slovak President Richard Sulik, who yesterday, together with many Members, had the courage to vote against this EFSF. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This was once a sign that you don't like everything, that you take the interests of the citizens seriously. But we are voting in the European states for so long, until then the result fits; we already know that from the past. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian tax money is too important for us to be transferred to the financial marode states, especially to the creditors behind them, banks and speculators. There's a damage to every Austrian. We want to ensure this fundamental right of the Austrians. There needs a direct referendum, don't refuse it, give the people the right to decision-making power again! Moreover, this procedure is in no way covered by the foundations of the European competences laid down in Austria's accession to the EU. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we also want to raise a public survey on the introduction of a limited million-dollar solidarity tax, on the maintenance of general military service, on the question of study fees, on the exclusion of foreigners from minimum security – because this would ultimately also ensure that service providers are attracted and not immigrants to the social system, as is the case today – and on the maintenance of national competence for the temporary reintroduction of border controls when it comes to the temporary suspension of Schengen borders, as we have been calling for this for a long time now to ensure more security for our people. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Oils: I don't know!]] Let us ask the Austrians how they stand! Do we not fear the decision of the Austrians, as they unfortunately have some representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens in this area! The government parties announced last week that they could at least imagine some of these points. That's interesting at least once. If it is told by these parties that you can imagine something, then it is only a matter of time – from 15, 20, 30 years – until perhaps anything comes into motion. We know this should be resolved from a painful experience in the field of administrative reform, health reform and many other areas that should necessarily be addressed. But that's where you put everything on the long bench. Stop it! Now it takes decisions! We must finally be ready to overcome this standstill, this democratic deficit that you have to bear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The government parties must also have the courage to agree to our requests – or once again we can assume that all that you have said, Mr Klubobmann Head and Mr Klubobmann Cap, is just hot air. “We can imagine that” – but these are really all just rhetorical flakes, because in reality we do not intend to question the citizens on this question. In principle, we liberals want more direct democracy! We want to turn the national survey into a parliamentary minority right, so that a third of the national councils can also conduct a national survey. Yes, that would be a democratization of our standstill system! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would be necessary in order to break down, this paralysis, which you have been living every day in recent years. This was a useful extension of direct democracy. And, of course, it will also be interesting how this proposal and the other proposals today will shape the voting behaviour of the Greens, because I say quite consciously: It must also be an initiative right of the people! It is necessary for the people's right of initiative to be able to act as a regulatory force in the event of misdevelopments, to act against Parliament's will and to force a coherent referendum. Yes, that's necessary! The right has to go from the people, and these direct-democratic mechanisms have finally been strengthened. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We believe that a popular desire to vote in the future should be felt if it is supported by at least 150,000 Austrians entitled to vote. This would be an instrument by which the people can act on their own initiative and say: If the government, if Parliament is not prepared and unable to follow our interests, we will start a process with a popular desire, in which at the end – if more than 150,000 Austrians have supported this popular desire – a legally binding referendum will take place. That's exactly what it is: Today the people are planted. If you make a popular desire today – just as we have successfully set in motion the anti-Temelín people's desire that over a million Austrians have signed – what do you experience? – There you are planted as a citizen! As over a million Austrians sign a popular desire, the Federal Government, as it were, calls for action, and then there is a first-class funeral in Parliament. Then this is treated once and then rubbed and not taken seriously at all. That's not supposed to be anymore! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is precisely the experience of which people are completely opposed to the political process. And that's where it takes an initiative right of the people, it needs a regulatory right, at a standstill, as we experience it today, or also against a living anti-Austria policy, such as in the context of providing the rescue shield from your side, with which you run politics against Austrian interests. We must ensure more democracy, because the situation is terrifying. I have already referred to the IMAS survey today, and if you continue to act as before, the situation will certainly not get better, but even worse. It will legitimately increase the frustration of the population and continue to grow and rise. We liberals take an example of Switzerland. Switzerland is a parade example of truly excellent democracy: on the one hand, parliamentary democracy, but parliamentary democracy is complemented by the regulation of direct democracy and the possibility of the right of initiative for the Swiss people, in order to force the Parliament on essential issues, to listen to the desire of the people to take it seriously and to implement it, regardless of what government is up there, which colors are represented in it, so also for the future. Each government, no matter which party is in the government, then has to implement and take these voting results seriously. This is the crucial process for which we take Switzerland as a model. Why should this not work or be possible in Austria? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Austrians have the democratic maturity that you may not yet have from the SPÖ and the ÖVP. You may not miss this democratic maturity, the Austrian population is certainly not! They, unfortunately, still live spiritually in many areas of God in your old proportion patterns and are ensnared in your proportional thinking. This also shows the “natural” defense mechanism of SPÖ and ÖVP against such direct-democratic mechanisms and legal institutions. For you, the people are often not the purpose of politics, but an annoying side-by-side, perhaps even a plague. That's not what it's supposed to be! That's exactly what it can and must not be! And so I'm saying, Finally, you'll be in the 21st place. A hundred years! With the promulgate state red-black embossing must finally end! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is exactly what people and citizens expect of us. You also want you to be willing to take off your old-fashioned and procedural processes, at last once ready to open up a new time in the field of democracy and democracy development. And that's why I can only appeal to you: Take this seriously! Because if you are not willing to rethink in this area and also to admit mistakes and above all come down from your high Ross, then you will be taken from your high Ross by the citizen and the electorate in coming elections. The citizens will no longer be allowed to do so in the long run, that you believe you can continue such pro-pore mechanisms. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Live the direct democracy and our home country Austria! The citizens deserve to be taken seriously!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2491	In order to deliver an opinion, the Federal Chancellor spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2523	Madam President. Members of the Government! Honourable Members! High house! In my view, this urgent request actually has two components, a very serious component, the questions of direct democracy and how to deal with the subject of direct democracy as meaningfully as possible, without making it ridiculous by exaggeration, so that, finally, those who are for direct democracy also come to the view that this can truly no longer be an instrument. So: How can we seriously talk about direct democracy? The second point I would like to address concerns the content of possible questions. I am unable to recognise any genuine seriousness on the basis of the wording you have proposed for some of your examples, and I would like to continue to do so. But let me first come to the serious point: In Europe, we are indeed in a political and economic situation in which many people are not only in Austria – and this shows themselves not only in IMAS and Gallup or OGM surveys, but in numerous other observable reactions, which are also visible in the Eurobarometer surveys and many others – are uncertain whether we are able to solve the problems in this European Union and especially in the euro area. In fact, it is true that in this economic crisis in the population a lot of confidence has been lost, because the people have now experienced much that they never thought possible. If someone had told before the economic crisis how banks could get in trouble, how states in Europe could get into trouble, it would probably not have been believed. There were few Mahners, Nobel laureates or bookists who have become known for it today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We said that too!]] Most of the people, science, politics has not foreseen such a collapse. We have not yet reached the end of this economic crisis, because this loss of confidence has resulted from what has caused speculation, which has been taken into account, which has been triggered by additional effects, unemployment, youth unemployment, social reduction measures, an increase in poverty throughout Europe. All the consequences of what every citizen and citizen in Europe feels and notices and sees have not yet given rise to the feeling that we have already put all the measures in place so that everything will be all right and, secondly, it can never happen again. And that's a real feeling, too. In fact, the Eurozone has not prepared any rules or instruments to do something like a common economic policy. For example: For example, in countries of southern Europe, measures to establish a tax system that not only prescribes tax laws, but also similar to the Dutch Scandinavian, German, Austrian tax system, ensure that these taxes are actually lifted and that they are controlled. There are also many other areas – issues of the basic book and issues related to privatisation – in which the legal systems and economic differences between the different countries of the euro area are so blatant that no instruments were provided for the creation of the euro area. These decisions must now be taken as a consequence of the economic crisis, in order to build these countries. We must make these decisions over the next few months, although we know that the instrument of a majority decision to prohibit, for example, the abuses of speculation, the control of reconstruction in these countries, the elimination of the shadow economy, the availability of only a few areas at all, and often not in the main areas. The EU Treaty and only the rules of the euro area do not provide for the creation of a Finance Minister at EU level who has the competence to take action against the shadow economy, to ensure proper tax revenue and to carry out what we jointly demand in the control of expenditure, so in the Eurozone with 44 parties in 17 different governments, we have to achieve a unanimous outcome each time in order to approach, on a voluntary basis, a goal that we all know that we should actually achieve. That 44 parties with all that there is in schielen on internal policy, for example, especially with our neighbor Slovakia at a coalition partner is the case, so that 44 parties are already alone... [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Social Democrats are not without!]] The Socialists, who are in opposition there in Slovakia, also play the same way as everyone else. The 44 parties I am talking about are actually only the parties to the government coalitions. If we also take into account those who, for example, need additional votes as minority governments in order to be able to rule at all, and if, in situations such as the current one in Slovakia, we still have to add the opposition parties to help us get a majority decision in Parliament, we will come to a much higher number that we all have to convince. And all of this under constant calls, we should increase the pace with the possibilities for increased coordination. [[Abg. Grosz: It's just everything very complicated!]] So I would like to tell you that I am convinced that even by failure from the time of the creation of the euro zone, because it has not been foreseen – and I have tried to explain this – because there are no prophets except less self-proclaimed here in the house, so since one usually assumes that there are no serious and serious prophets who are entitled to continue to be right in the future, that is to say... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Everyone knew!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There won't be a lot of taxes in Palermo!]] That you are a Palermo expert, Mr President, I do not want to agree with you at all. The word you might still keep today, I will at least listen patiently to it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There is no need to be an expert to predict that Palermo will not produce much tax!]] However, I am convinced that the European Union, neither the Commission nor the members of the governments, has at all an opportunity to influence the tax system in Italy or even to ensure some kind of enforcement in a country such as Italy with direct competence. I know this because I know the contracts and I know how the competences are stored, and because I can therefore give the information that this decision would not be taken at all, not even from one morning to appoint Minister of Finance. That is to say, finance ministers, and we can also call ourselves economic government, if it helps, but it has not yet produced new instruments and has not yet improved qualified enforcement or efficiency. So we are indeed faced with decisive reforms in our own country and in Europe, with a lot of energy, a lot of power, a lot of coordination and endurance, sometimes also with setbacks. On this point I would like to give an example of what Austria has not only done in the past. You know that, and I know you know that, and you'll understand that I remember it more often than you do. It is not the main task of an opposition to put positive data in the foreground of our country, but we should nevertheless achieve something like a basic consensus that we say: Due to the achievements of companies, the workers – I say as a government: of course, the framework conditions that the government has created; it is certainly a matter of course for me as a head of government that I am proud of the performance of all the members of the government who have provided a service in this context – we are in a situation which is much more stable, which enables us to be among the triple A countries, which is well resisting international comparisons in terms of employment and youth employment. I could also show you various assessments at European level that prove that your expression “reform stand” is inappropriate. The supposed reform stand is your reason and, as I believe, a wrong reason for direct democracy, because direct democracy in my definition is not a compensation for the state of reform, but direct democracy offers the opportunity to involve the people in some fundamental issue, in addition to decisive reforms, by means of a survey or vote. That is, direct democracy is not a detour to be able to use the word “reform stau” once again, but direct democracy is part of a country’s decisions. And I've always said that I think that's right. I have also always mentioned two examples: The obligation to do so as a matter of principle and essential, essential decisions, which, for example, change the Treaty of the European Union. I have referred to Turkey as an example, but of course other examples would also be imaginable. That is, I am quite convinced that we have an active role to play in the decisions that are taking place at European level and the key decisions for the future of Europe, including for our prosperity, our labour market, our exports, our economic growth. I am also convinced that, at European level, a people's desire should be able to lead, for example, to the issue of financial transaction taxation, on nuclear energy issues, to mobilise the population to exert more pressure in the direction I believe that we also agree on this from the point of view. There is a five-parliament agreement on both the financial transaction tax and the refusal of nuclear energy and nuclear energy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Members of the FPÖ rise from their seats and keep a transparency up.]] There are, therefore, examples of how useful it can be to use the popular desire, but also the popular survey or the referendum. [[Abg. Kickl: Look at the transparency quietly, don't look so hard away!]] I don't want to focus this on a point like this: Either one is for one or one rejects everything in the field of direct democracy in principle.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2676	Ladies and gentlemen, as usual: I'm welcome to invite you to re-roll the transparency. Please, Federal Chancellor, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2694	It is my conviction, therefore, that when we discuss referendums or popular surveys, the issue also plays a crucial role. Let me just point to two examples, which I would like to mention, that I am somewhat doubtful about your interest in a serious discussion. One of the questions raised in your application is the non-participation of Austria in a European Transfer Union. Now you have read in hundreds of broadcasts – I don't read all your broadcasts, forgive me, but I have read it in many of your broadcasts – the transfer union has been there for a long time. Since the first measure of the shield we have heard, there is for you according to your definition – unlawful – the transfer union. [[Abg. Strache: Reverend!]] You've often expressed that enough. That is to say, the “non-participation of Austria in a European Transfer Union”, as requested in your urgent request, means at the hour when what has been decided to do with what has already been decided in the past. [[Abg. Fuck you!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's a blackhead! It's getting worse!]] For what else is a non-participation in a transfer union that already exists? [[Abg. Strache: This is an operetta that you perform there!]] That is, only the fact that a protection, a kind of bond is taken together – and I am not talking at all about Eurobonds at all, but I am only talking about what we have decided unanimously and often too long discussions in the various areas of the European Union – you already call a transfer union – and from what you want out! That alone means asking the population: In this situation, in these economically difficult times, where we are faced with reduced growth forecasts, where workers, workers and workers rightly ask themselves whether we are bringing up growth and exports so that jobs are not at risk from the euro area? [[Abg. Strache: That sounded quite different from you in 2008!]] So you ask more or less: Do you want to leave the euro zone or not? – But without telling the people what would happen after leaving. Is that the reintroduction of the schilling? What's that? [[Abg. Street:... our tax money for our citizens!]] They sometimes quote experts who speak of a new euro zone from a Eurozone of some countries; it is always called Germany. I can assure you, however, that the German Chancellor, supported by almost all the parties, including the opposition party SPD, has clearly stated that she does not intend to establish any other zone at all. [[Abg. Strache: From your own party a few voted against!]] So your alternative remains, you will convince the four German parties that it would be better for them to refrain from exporting and to create a euro zone with a completely unpredictable currency that would cause exports to collapse completely. You won't succeed. [[Abg. Street: A few Members voted against by CDU, CSU, FDP! So much for the truth!]] [[Abg. Bucher: You will still experience this, Mr. Bundeskanzler – no longer as chancellor, but as a private person!]] And that is why this is a politically justified discussion, but a discussion in which, if you are discussing fairly, you must not conceal the consequences to citizens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point in your urgent request is “Exclusion of foreigners from minimum security”. – So according to your definition, a “foreigner” is one who is not a citizen every time. And even here you always do it with the migration background. Do you have your own definitions? But a stranger is one who is not a citizen. That means how you really found out... – Where does that stand? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: No, no! EU citizens!]] Where's that? – That means you have to tell people whether you mean the citizens of the European Union as strangers or not. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You don't understand!]] Now there is the rule that, after five years, including other laws, there will be a level playing field at European level. If you do not want to do so, this also calls into question the existing legal basis of the European Union, which exists and which will not be changed for your sakes, so that, in fact, only the withdrawal from the European Union remains. [[Abg. Strache: The family tax compensation fund is to be seen under private law!]] So you might mean those people who are outside the European Union. And then there will be a political discussion, why someone who pays here 20 or 30 years of taxes, works here, has been taken from the economy because needed, then is to be excluded from minimum security. [[Abg. Street: After ten years he will receive it if he has paid something! Just because the Federal Chancellor cannot understand this, he believes that to the population!]] These two examples alone, from the Transfer Union and from the concept of ‘foreign’, show that direct democracy requires a higher level of materiality, a higher degree of depth and a higher degree of open and constructive discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore welcome any serious political discussion that asks the question: How can reforms be achieved here in the House today, with the decisions of the Austrian National Council? [[Abg. Bucher: We've been wondering about this for years!]] How can reforms be promoted by the Austrian Federal Government to ensure this high standard in Austria and to play an active role in this difficult situation in the European Union? I also welcome a discussion on the question: Where and how can direct democracy play a meaningful role? I have also made proposals myself again and again. However, it is essential that one does not use this to beat political little money out of it and place a few terms more often in the public, but rather to think about how to implement decision-making processes in a country involving the population for the best and for the good of the country. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's what you're saying?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2961	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Kickl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2993	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! We were once again ears and eyes on another unsuccessful attempt by our Federal Chancellor to demonstrate his economic and financial competence. To this day, he has still not understood that we have only come into this palawatsch, which is now happening in Europe and which threatens to tear down the whole continent, because the problem of the euro is as such. The error is at the start. – The whole thing is so simple! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] Come on. So you can't have them with any things you couldn't have foreseen! All that you mentioned was known before, ladies and gentlemen. With financial policy and economic policy, you are at the wrong address. Also with direct democracy, ladies and gentlemen, one is at the wrong address with this Federal Chancellor. If you are talking about direct democracy, then you mean nothing but an instrument that, from the point of view of electoral considerations, might fit into the concept sometime, which may not happen sometime; then you play with it. When we speak about direct democracy, we mean the indisputable confession that is the last word in a democracy with the electorate, with the sovereign, with the people of the state. That's the crucial difference! [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] That is why we also work day and night to ensure that the right goes out of the people, while working day and night to ensure that justice goes out to the people. And this is an essential difference in our approach! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what was it, Mr Federal Chancellor, what your party, as Chancellor, did when, in the course of the Treaty of Lisbon, you denied the Austrians the referendum, together with the ÖVP and the Greens? What was that? – This was a declaration of espionage to our own citizens and to our own electorate, to the Sovereign, ladies and gentlemen. That is what you have done: agreeing with your own sovereign the political competence to make decisions that will be long after, if no one in Austria will know who Werner Faymann was at all, except you advertise it! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] And what do we have to do with the euro crisis and the so-called shield now? What do we have to do with now? This is now the next attack, where you're going to throw billions of money into the Pleite States, where you're funding speculators. What's that? After the blow of estuary, this is the next blow, and that is “abduction of the state people”. Eating and expropriation: These are the two socialist shocks that we have to deal with, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have been wondering what the Austrian people actually did to you all the time. What has caused the Austrian population to come to terms with it in such a way? Is it perhaps the revenge that at the last election over 70 percent of voters were so excited not to vote? This could be a possible way of access that you have not done so far under 30 percent of SPÖ's Trauma. Or it might also be that you have not overcome the referendum to Zwentendorf until today; that this is a second trauma, the SPÖ-Zwentendorf-Kreisky-Trauma. Or maybe they're both together. But Zwentendorf is an essential point to remember. And there also the ladies and gentlemen of the Greens should sharpen their ears. At that time, 1978, it was the simple Austrian population who knew that what you wanted to do to it with all your experts and all your nuclear physicists as the greatest future energy efficiency is the wrong way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Austrians did not want to know anything about it and made the right decision in their majority, ladies and gentlemen, without being a doctoral physicist or nuclear expert. So you should not be angry with the Austrians because of such a decision, but you should really thank the Austrian people, learn from it and ask their often such questions. Mr Bundeskanzler, I do not know where you will get your orders or your work instructions. At the emperor, one knew that he was leading his claim to do what he had done from the Lord God. In your view, it is probably more the European Commission. This could, I suppose, be one of the factors of influence. But maybe it's also the one or the other trip that led you to Switzerland. I would give you the tip, Federal Chancellor: If you are already going to Switzerland, please look at the working model of direct democracy in Switzerland, as it has been successfully lived there for many, many years, and do not pick up any orders at the Bilderberger meetings! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps Mr Cap will then explain to us what you lost there as the Austrian head of government. That would be interesting, because the G’schlatterl, that you came there as a private man, can tell someone else. But let's put a moment in a positive fantasy world! Let us just assume once that we have a head of government who is distinguished by leadership and who can believe something if he promises something! – You don’t need to feel affected, you’re not meant to. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Or do we just assume, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a chancellor who has not forgotten that it is the Austrian constitution he has praised and nothing else. – Don’t worry, you’re not affected, you’re not meant, Federal Chancellor! Or do we assume only once that we have a German chancellor who really means it seriously with the reform efforts and not just so. – Don’t worry, all this doesn’t apply to you, Federal Chancellor! That would be a light in Austrian politics – that is, the opposite of you, Federal Chancellor! A real light! [[Abg. May. Muttons: Is that funny?]] But this new type of politician, which we really need here in Austria very urgently, would be of the best knowledge and conscience on every essential issue of decision-making, which concerns changing for future generations, and would not bring it to the heart without involving those directly concerned, namely the people of the state, such decisions, ladies and gentlemen. That's the point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you may now wonder that despite all of this, I am still optimistic. We are already in quite a mess in this Austria – also due to your wrong analyses and your wrong developments – but I think that for Austria everything is not lost, ladies and gentlemen. But there will only be something good for this country if in the future we have a politician at the head of the Federal Government who is so strong that he can allow the people to be involved and accept the population, and no longer a German chancellor who is so weak that he has to fear the population and that he has to exclude the population as you are, Mr. Faymann. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is therefore true – I conclude – that you – and you yourself are guilty of this – will go into the history of the Second Republic as an “inserator” and not as a reformer.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3115	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3137	Well, the Austrian population has not deserved that the liberals today do not take direct democracy seriously with this urgent request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Principal Teacher!]] Because I'm telling you the difference now: You're talking about direct democracy, but when you were in your party with Jörg Haider, he was man enough to have applied it. There has been a series of popular desires – admitted: before the year 2000. When he was in the government, suddenly there was no more popular desire, then it was over. [[Abg. Temelín!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Forget everything!]] But he was man enough that at least at that time he really used popular desire as an instrument. [[Abg. Strache: Alzheimer's already attacked you! Temelín! Turkey accession!]] Where was then a popular desire in the question: Greece in the euro zone!Unknown term type: "%s".? Where was that then? Where was a popular desire or a referendum about the question of spending € 7 or € 8 billion for the Eurofighters? Where was that then? Take your history books! Look You're coming! [[Call the FPÖ:Temelín!]] - Temelín didn't come from you. We worked it all over the place. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Stop it! Operation It's not just label-difference now, so we'll be clear. I don't understand the title in so far as it is: Why are you not also proud with us that in Austria there is the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, that there is the highest employment that we are in the forefront of purchasing power, that here is the best health, social and pension system? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because we have diligent people!]] Why aren't you just proud of it? After all, the hard-working Austrians have co-financed this. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Only those!]] That's so important to everyone. Why don't you want to acknowledge this, too? [[Abg. Street: The hard-working Austrians want to decide what you refuse!]] And in terms of quality of life, we are still top in big cities, such as in Vienna and in other large cities and even in Austria. – It was sent just once in advance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the points you're putting here. Point one: ‘Austria’s non-participation in a European Transfer Union’. – You must have dedicated yourself to it, because it would have actually belonged to it: Non-participation of the Austrian taxpayer in an intra-Austrian transfer union for the liability framework of the Kärntner Landeshypo in the order of € 22 billion. Why isn't that there? - Because you're not man enough to really put that on that list. 22 billion, and now carry over 1.5 billion again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] And again we hear that Carinthian Landeshypo needs money. You'll know that even more precisely. The shadow of Jörg Haider, who sits in the middle of you, may be able to tell you that even more accurately. Yes, that's FPK, Uwe Scheuch, who will be They may not be able to question them successfully for six months, because he has just received an absolute penalty due to this “Part-of-the-Game” story with citizenship. But we will still look at that in the Committee of Inquiry. But don't forget: That would have been the first point. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] Point two: ‘Introduction of a time-limited millionaire solidarity tax’. - Ha! Why, in fact, “temporaryly limited ”? Did you think of potential donors for your party case that you did not trust that a millionaire tax would be introduced in principle for the 80 000 millionaires in Austria? [[Abg. Kickl:... criminal is...!]] Why only limited time? You know exactly, 1 per cent of Austrians have 27 per cent of money, 10 per cent 54 per cent, and 80 000 euromillionaires are available in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: One of them you are!]] And then you say, Let's limit it time! Let's not exasperate the millionaires! Are you the representative of the great crowd of Austrians, the middle class, the “little people”, as Jörg Haider used to say? Is that you? [[Abg. We are! Yes!]] They say that 80 000 millionaires we wrap a little bit, twirl, twirl, twirl, but more we don't want to do, and that is limited in time and then, hush, away by hand, otherwise we burn them ourselves. [[Abg. We are not communists like you, Mr. Cap!]] So that's a very weak announcement at point two. Point three and point four of you are good at all. There it says: ‘Maintenance of general obligation’. They want to conduct a People's Survey on Their Conservation. And: ‘Maintaining free access to higher education’. I would like to say to the latter: We have jointly abolished the tuition fees here. Why you suddenly question this on this path, you need to abolish the tuition fees with us – red, blue, green. [[Abg. Street: Because the people have to decide!]] But that's not the subject at all. The proof that you are not taking the debate on direct democracy today is, among other things, these two points. They say: Let's just vote whether we're keeping something! Suppose we don't think we're going to keep something – what is it then? - You don't know that. [[Abg. That's what the people have to decide. That's what you want to prevent!]] That's not even there. Well, that's not there at all. But You have to say – you just don't take this seriously. [[Abg. Strache: Don't you even create yourself with the Kasperl Theatre?]] We know that if this is the case, then a professional belongs, that is contemporary, that is modern, and the other European countries have that too. Yes, we can imagine making a popular survey. Yes, but we have a goal: We can't say that, you can't. You're not man enough to say what you really want. They just make themselves up and say: Let's leave it! As it is, it's good. [[Abg. Strache: The people will decide what they want – not us! He's scared! Something could come out of it that you don't want!]] - No, I don't. There you make points, write here, first, second, third, fourth, as it is, it's good. Are you also of the opinion that it is, is it good? - Well, great! So you want to be taken seriously by the Austrian population when you talk about direct democracy? - No, you won't be taken seriously. [[Abg. Strache: You don't want to let the population decide!]] And I can answer this question right now: That won't help. Your application also states: ‘Exclusion of foreigners from minimum security’; – We had that in the discussion today. You know very well: Neither the illegals, nor the asylum seekers, nor anyone else. Who do you mean? Do you mean Austrian citizens with migration backgrounds? Who do you mean? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] So that's just not possible, you don't know what's really meant. Then it says: ‘Keeping national competence for temporary reintroduction of border controls’. – There is already! There is the possibility to introduce border controls for a certain period of time on certain occasions. This will also be used, and we will, of course, make use of it in the near future, if it is necessary. [[Abg. Strache: But only if you have previously asked in the EU! Only if you have previously called and asked in Brussels!]] You do not take this discussion seriously! In the text of your request, you do not even have in it what you said earlier, namely that there should be a referendum from a certain number in popular desires. This is not even in the text of the application, but you have only swaddered about it in your speech. I just wanted to show the following difference: At the time when your party was chairman of the Jörg Haider, he left here and criticized many things – and I say: You can stand to him as you want; we fought him politically, where he only went, because we were not of his opinion on many questions, but sometimes he also raised questions that were quite contentious – but then he took action. But what are you doing at European level? There is the European Citizens' Initiative. What to do You there directly democratic? [[Abg. Strache: Step against Turkey's accession! We will make the first European desire to take action against Turkey's accession!]] Nothing you do, because you have no contact in fact outside the Austrian borders. You don't do anything there! After all, we have debated the financial transaction tax for so long – with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany at the head – until even the President of the European Commission, Barroso, has said: We want to introduce the financial transaction tax! – This is a measurable success! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's absurd!]] What to do When you leave nuclear energy at European level? Nothing! You're swerving at Temelín's. Back in the days with Temelín – these were really not you! - Yes, exactly! [[Abg. Strache: That was my Wiener Landesgruppe!]] Now you have suddenly also been a member of FPÖ in 2000. [[Abg. Strache: You can see that you have no idea of political processes!]] Here you always say that you did not actually come to the political world until 2006. What was going on in Austria before, you can't even get inside of it. [[Abg. Strache: You have no idea of political processes!]] I'm just telling you: You could also do something at the European level and join in the fight for the exit from nuclear energy! Summa summarum I have to tell you: I don't understand that either... – No, no! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Failed once again!]] We have decided 323 laws in this House, of which 231 were government documents. Of these, only 19 percent were voted with the votes of red and black alone, 36 percent unanimously, and the rest by majority, including the votes of the opposition. So: This Parliament is working! This Parliament is working! And with 231 government templates... [[Abg. Strache: So you want to continue to cross the people?! Tell me honestly that you do not want to let the people decide!]] This government also works and works! Therefore, you save yourself these apocalyptic images with direct democracy, as you understand them and do not take them seriously! This harms much more direct democracy than it brings benefits. It is much more serious to take, because of course the citizen has a right to be involved in what is happening in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3563	Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Mr President, you know the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3588	Madam President. Values of My Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr SPÖ-Klubobmann Cap just said in his speech that no further popular desire had been made by the FPÖ with Jörg Haider after 2000. – This claim is wrong! The right thing is: It was found from 14 to 21. January 2002 held the Anti-Temelín People's Desire, with 914 973 signatures being the third most successful in the history of all popular desires. Second actual correction: In this speech, Mr. Klubobmann Cap has also falsely claimed this speaker’s voice – and that is the “best”! – it was him and the SPÖ who introduced this anti-Temelín popular desire. [[Abg. That's absurd!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] I don't know how you're getting on it, I'm actually correcting it: The entrants, the signatorys, the promoters of this popular desire were the Vienna FPÖ-Obmann Hilmar Kabas, the Lower Austrian FPÖ-Obmann Ernest Windholz and the Upper Austrian FPÖ-Obmann Hans Achatz – and not the SPÖ! It's a shame how you're trying to misinformed people here!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3638	Mr Neubauer spoke about another actual correction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] – Do you withdraw your actual correction? [[Abg. New builder: Yes!]] The next Mr. Klubobmann's head then comes to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3679	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Strache and Mr Kickl, have you ever had a look at the Austrian federal constitution? You're talking about fear of the people, you're talking about demise of the people. The right goes from the people to the right! The Austrian Constitution provides for the people to exercise their right at elections in the way that it legitimizes 183 MEPs to exercise the right of this people, in place of the people, here inside and to make decisions on behalf of the people. And that's exactly what we're doing here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: That means you don't want a referendum or a popular survey!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] That means what you're doing here is: They detest the Austrian constitution and you detest the Austrian people! That's what you're doing in here! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The ÖVP Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Josef Pröll, who, for health reasons, had been expelled from the Federal Government, said in his farewell speech that this country had a problem with a standstill and a standstill. We actually have a problem with the propriety: We have been discussing corruption for some time now, and it is not surprising that politics – in addition to the economy – also has a high level of loss of trust. But ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and the BZÖ, you are in the middle: You are consistently working on this loss of trust that politics is suffering here, and then point your finger at the others and complain about this loss of trust! This is indeed an dishonest course of action that cries out to heaven! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: It's about education and trust!]] I am not entirely of the opinion of Josef Pröll as regards his second accusation or his second statement, namely on the issue of “Stilstand”. Okay, there is some dissatisfaction, but in many countries of Europe this is currently experiencing with democracy and with what democratic systems are bringing forward at the moment. [[Abg. Neubauer: For example in Vienna!]] And it has almost become a “Running Message” that you complain about the standstill everywhere – that’s no different in Germany and in other countries as well. But that is not to say that there or there should not be any more speedy progress. The Federal Chancellor has already pointed out that we also have our problems at European level with this consensus-making. But: Full-day child care, disability of child care costs, income dependent childcare allowance, “New Middle School”, energy strategy, eco electricity law, thermal rehabilitation, establishment of an integration state secretariat, adoption of a National Action Plan for Integration, establishment of a nursing fund, ensuring care financing, and, and – this list could be continued for some time. So it is not that way, ladies and gentlemen, that this Parliament does not fulfil its task, quite the contrary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Parliament already – but not the government!]] Don't be so self-critical! Mr Cap referred to how many laws you agreed with. Many of these have even been decided unanimously. Why do you want to make all this bad now?- Oh, my God! [[Call the FPÖ: There is no man doing that!]] This Parliament is working, this Parliament is working for the Austrian people! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But not the government!]] But we also have a few things ahead of us that are facing a solution. Only: Whether we do this with offensives, such as with ‘My Austria’, to which you have partly joined, or, for example, with a majority voting right, as Mrs Rudas likes, can solve these problems, I dare to doubt. The fact is: This right of majority so praised by Mrs Rudas would mean that we no longer have an image of the electorate's will in the composition of this House. One would then gain more efficiency in government – but at the price of less democracy! We do not want that in this form! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] But it is interesting that the same people call for more democracy at the same time, in the form of referendums! This is actually a contradiction in itself: less democratic legitimacy here in the People's Office and so on some dubious plebiscitary individual decision. – These would be festivals for populists, festivals for campaign operating boulevards! This would be a regular use of some unfavourable moods for inter-electional struggles if we were to set up the whole thing up as a minority right. – Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian population has not deserved this! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you already have to be able to accept the democratic principle that a majority is entitled to make decisions here, as well as in the elections. The majority decides in a democracy – and not the minority, whether it suits you or not! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Wait for you to get down to 10 percent!]] If we, ladies and gentlemen, are here performing our task and with a majority – often also unanimously, but in any case by a majority! – make decisions, then this process does not deserve to be qualified by you as a “driving”. No, we do our democratic task and make decisions. To this end, we are legitimated and commissioned by the Austrian population – whether it suits you or not! This is not a driving force, but it is the realization of our democratically legitimate task here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we should actually talk about one thing: whether we can still strengthen parliamentarianism! We should think about this – also about a stronger personalisation of the right to vote, no question at all! I can imagine a higher evaluation of the preferred votes so that the population can have even greater influence, not only on which party sits inside, but also on which people sit inside. That is no question at all, we can talk about it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: We're going to face damn difficult times, and I think... – That deserves a little more serious, ladies and gentlemen, than it shows your very stupid calls you make here. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Yes, the ÖVP!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing difficult tasks: a sovereign debt crisis that urgently calls for a debt brake and serious measures to reduce public debt, a demographic development that is urgently calling for solutions, including our pension system, and for more generation-righteousness, and also a growth weakness that threatens our prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, we should work together on these difficult tasks and work out solutions to them and not deal with these populist side-shows you are opening here. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] One thing is clear: The ruling majority of this House will work seriously and intensively to resolve this difficult task. And the decision about and the evaluation of this work will take place in two years the people – and not you!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3945	Now Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3966	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. If you look at it very soberly, why we have this special session today, and if you know that at the end of October the Parliament year is over and every group can request a special session and the Freeman has not yet taken advantage of it, then you will be clear: You have now just discovered a new topic with this absolutely unprepared application. [[Abg. Kickl: Save in time, then you are in distress!]] Unlike you, Mr Kickl, I have been a few years – really years, you have to say! – in the major constitutional reform discussion in the Austrian Convention, and it is documented – you can read it in the protocols on it – that there was not at that time a single proposal by the Freedom Party to strengthen popular desire in connection with popular elections. [[Abg. Kickl: This is a complete nonsense!]] You can read that. Do history research and come at your own door! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second thing that comes to mind is why this special meeting is now taking place by means of this really pitiful request to the extent of one side, which contains just five points: What is happening in the outside world? – In Klagenfurt, a person from the blue-orange environment is now being made the trial, which is about money laundering and citizenship for two Russians who have obviously been bought. So, it's nothing but a pure distraction maneuver of the greatest corruption that ever existed in the Second Republic. Distract from that, try today. For this anti-corruption, the Freedom Party is largely responsible. That's what people want to know! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is too little to complain of political starkness. Last year we experienced a year of conflict in the coalition; it should have been the year of reforms this year. By the way, we are still waiting for these. To make only a single legislative proposal for each Council of Ministers, that is a little bit. But I'm fine. In fact, it has become the year of corruption scandals, and the population has a very important concern – rightly! – namely: Trust needs to be restored! This must be done through three measures. Firstly, through merciless Enlightenment. That is why it is unfortunate that the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry is not already decided today – very sad! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: That's cheap!]] We miss another week of time for work. Secondly, There must be responsibilities. If politicians are legally condemned, they have to resign. This is a responsibility that they have to shoulder towards the people – because you always say the right goes from the people. I repeat: Legally condemned politicians must resign. You might also want to ask for this to be conducted by a people's survey. I'd be curious what the people would say. [[Abg. Strache: In the case of legally convicted people?]] - Yes, in the case of legally convicted people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Of course, in the case of law-enforced convicts!]] And the third, and that's the most important thing: We need the sharpest anti-corruption laws within the European Union to restore the confidence of the population. We should say goodbye to this house as soon as possible. That is why we will later introduce a deadline on the subject of “glass party funds”. We are going ahead with a good example: All Members of the Greens have disclosed the by-catches if they have any. [[Abg. What about Van der Bellen?- Oh, my God!]] We have disclosed our party funds. And we're going to decide on a further intensification on Sunday party day. Keywords: Advisory contracts, assessor contracts, corporate participations. [[Abg. Grosz: Van der Bellen!]] You can then get out and explain how your party finances look. Again: We have been relentlessly exposed! And that's what I'm expecting from the BZÖ. There are enough cases. Just last week there was another extradition request in this house: Mr Westenthaler is suspected of infidelity. So: Take a look at your own door before you point to colleague Van der Bellen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] Only two more sentences on this your request: To present himself as a reform party, and then it says: “Preservance...”, “Preservation...”, “non-participation...”, “keeping...” – I mean, what is that supposed to be? This is the absolute standstill that you want to cement in accordance with your request. And if you are constantly in the mouth of “European Transfer Union” and such terms, then you really have a serious discussion about the development of the European Union or be so courageous and say you want to leave the EU and leave the currency zone! But then, too, be so courageous to tell people the truth in which world we are moving! For one thing you can certainly say: If Austria were not part of the euro zone, we would have long been victims of much more aggressive financial markets. They are actually doing the business of the speculators here, because they are just waiting for this euro zone to break down to each country individually. Be so courageous to say that the speculators want exactly that! They want exactly that: namely, that the euro zone is breaking down to push every single country into the corner after each one of them! - We don't want that! We want further development. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There has already been enough polemization about your formulations, but what is meant by this: ‘Minimum security exclusion’? – At least stick to the truth! Without five years of income, there is no minimum guarantee. There is no stay without five years of income. [[Abg. Kickl: This law is a papermaker!]] Who do you want to rule out? People who worked seriously here for five years? I'm of the opinion: Those who work seriously in Austria should also receive social benefits. Of course! Or do you raise the weak again against the weak, as always and usual? I find it deeply abominable to always raise the weak against the weak. And that is exactly the subject in the case of minimum security: to heat up the weak against the weak! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Again: There is no residence permit if one cannot prove an income here. – To think logically once would be required. [[Abg. Bleach: Unemployment income counts as income! You're really not informed!]] I would like to say two more words on our proposals as regards the further development of the direct democratic instruments. [[Abg. Kickl: Something like that of a dream world that you make up there! So far away from reality!]] I would also like to discuss these questions with you. In the Austrian Convention you were not prepared to discuss it, since you did not make any proposals. The Greens have been making precise proposals here for years, and this is also about the framework conditions under which popular surveys and referendums are carried out. It is important to me that there is serious, objective information – and not such empty, comic points as in your program. [[Abg. Strache: If direct democracy is empty for you, then today you have made a revelation.]] It is not possible to strengthen direct democratic instruments in any way. This is an increase in direct democracy, which you have listed there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it is welcome to start constitutional reform processes again, but the most important thing, the most important question for the population, is to restore trust, and that is to say, merciless reconnaissance, including your scandals. And I can announce something to you: Unfortunately, we have evidence of illegal party funding in FPÖ. Mr Pilz will continue to do this, unfortunately I have no more speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4219	Mr Klubobmann Bucher came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4241	Madam President. High house! Sometimes we really force citizens to keep things quite apart when an opposition party like the Greens today criticizes a special session on allowing more democracy in our country. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] That's a much-needed attitude you're taking. I remember that you came out of a citizens' initiative, and now you want to join the mainstream of the government parties and say: [[Abg. Strache: Return to real-life socialism!]] No, we don't need a people, we better know where it's going! Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, that, I believe, you will not enter history as a democratic party, but rather enter it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second: Please stop, Mrs Glawischnig, saying that Austria, if it were not in the euro zone, would be a victim of the speculators! This is really the greatest nonsense of all time! As far as my economic understanding is concerned, at least the greatest nonsense. Remember Norway, please think of Sweden, think of Switzerland! [[Abg. Blow: Czech Republic! Czech Republic! England!]] They are all not in the euro zone, these are demonstration democracies, economies that listen to the people who do not need a European Union in terms of expression, as we have committed ourselves to following them, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] They all play in the Champions League today, while we have to try out in the Underliga! This is the reality we are facing today! Today we have also experienced a German chancellor who does not provide any answers. – Mr Bundeskanzler, quite honestly: A government manager does not expect the population to constantly ask questions, but that it provides answers! You have asked questions in your opinion today. This is also the reason for the political insanity in Austria, because the population says: We have high-paid politicians sitting on the government bank, yes, for God's sake, because we can expect and also demand that they provide the right answers – but not ask the questions, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you had the courage to ask the people the question, you would also receive clear answers from the people! But you do not have the courage to question the people, ladies and gentlemen, but you hide behind your government office and do not want to make decisions and regret the instruments you lack at European level. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the FPÖ]] Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, I am already wondering: This whole crisis was not only created since yesterday, but already in 2008! Three years have since moved into the country. The financial market has been waiting for three years, and the economic areas are waiting for clear political decisions to stop what happened in 2008. No decisions have been made to this day! Policy has not been able to get through the right measures at European level to prevent economic crises. And we face the next economic crisis when we look today at the data from the economic research institutes that have confirmed to us that no more growth will occur in the fourth quarter. These are the failures of the government politicians in Austria and at European level! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What you understand by direct democracy, Mr Bundeskanzler, is not a popular survey, but you ask a newspaper editor. That's your understanding of democracy. We should also point out again and again that this is not a democratic understanding, but it is a democratic misunderstanding, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We would have expected answers to such questions of existence right now. And you've made them right, so much according to the motto: What are we gonna do? We're facing a huge disaster! It's not that easy, the problems are piled up, the events are getting worse from day to day! – Yes, Federal Chancellor, then make a decision at last! [[Abg. Grosz: But we told them!]] If you are not brave enough to make the decision, then let the people decide how to proceed, whether we need this rescue shield at European level, whether we want to deliver to ourselves a European dictatorship that tells us what we need to do in Austria and what we have to fail! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] That is the way straight to a dependent transfer union, to a central state! Tell the people, Mr Chancellor, what is being prepared here at European level, that decisions have long been taken behind closed doors as regards the demise of the individual sovereign states! Austria too will – of course! – a number of decisions must be given to Brussels. There are important changes being made, and we, the parliaments and, of course, the people, will be excluded. You save in the wrong place, you save people's will and people's decisions, ladies and gentlemen, and we want to stop and fight that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You should explain to people what you're afraid of – I haven't heard from you today – why you don't want people to do it in such an important decision with a weight of €29 billion. There will be European elections again. I hope that people will be re-embedded, but you will not reach them anymore, because you now do not want people to be involved in this central question. This is about the future of our country, now it is about the next generations. And you're moaning the future, you're wasting people's wealth! That is the fact, when you see what amounts it is about. At last take note of these facts and involve the people, otherwise one thing will blossom to you, namely that politics will take place on the streets – and then the Eurolands do not need a shield, but then you need a shield, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and we all want to avoid that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My appeal, which I address to the Greens again: It is up to the Greens to allow a democratically legitimate and elected party to make this popular decision. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Oils.]] Yes, you would have the opportunity to allow that! [[Abg. Strache: There is no such thing as the real socialism of Mr. Ollinger!]] And I call again on you not to allow an anti-corruption law to be voted on, but to the European Rescue Screen. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! We can regulate the anti-corruption here, because we do not need a referendum. As far as I am aware, all parties want rules to be defined so that nothing can happen here in the future. We confess to that, but we do not need the will of the people! We now clearly need the People's Decision on European Rescue Screen so that we know whether we need this Rescue Screen in the future or not. We are quite clear that we do not need it because we have already paid enough and we cannot afford to do so, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] I do not think you are aware of what you are putting at risk, Mr Bundeskanzler. I am really not sure that you have actually thought through the scope of this decision to the end. You put our future at risk, you put the next generations in a situation where the spaces are taken. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what do we say to those generations who have built up this country in front of us from the ruins of the Second World War, to whom we owe our prosperity, in which we live today, when we go now and pledge our country and do not know how the future will look forward, the future of the next generations?- Oh, my God! Yes, can you still look into these people who have done all that with great renunciation so that we can spend our lives here in prosperity? We want to stop that, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I warn you about this giant disaster that is happening to us, about this giant tsunami, which Austria can never be prepared for, because we are not financially equipped to be able to afford what will come to us at European level in the near future. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] They have not asked the people since 1994 whether they really want to go along with this path. At that time, the people, with 66 per cent, said yes to a free movement of services, persons and capital. There was no mention of a common currency. It was not a point of view that the Stability Pact is being broken, that liability is taken over for other countries, also for banks that are not in Austrian possession, and that the European Central Bank may buy government bonds. All the rules, all the principles at European level have been broken. There is therefore no longer any confidence in this European policy. We need more democracy, we need more people, then Austria also has more future!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4416	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4438	Madam President. – So many rhetorical flaws of the two Grand Coalitionary Clubmen Cap and Head, wherever they may be right, I have never heard what arguments there are to impossibility of direct democracy in the state as far as possible. I can only recommend that both take a look at our federal constitution, where Article 1 norms the most likely and noble principle of our Republic, namely: All power goes from the people! – and not only by your two parties and the orders you receive from Brussels again and again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, I would also like to put one on the road: There are not two forms of direct democracy, the serious ones that you represent and never take place at all, and the ridiculous ones that we urge to do today. There is a single form of direct democracy: This is the determination by the population itself, and you also have to accept it. And you promised her, direct democracy. You have promised, in a letter to all readers of a large daily newspaper by means of an advertisement, that you will allow for a referendum or referendum in the event of any changes affecting the European Union in its treaty in a significant way. You have not done this to this day, and you are making fun of the instrument of direct democracy. That is not good in this House, where we have provided for these regulations here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's only going to be exceeded by Klubobmann's head, who says there are 183 people here who are supposed to break their head over it. In principle, he would be right for Members of this House to deal with this, only: The proposals we have made result from the red and black inability. Whether this is the obligation to decide whether this is the tuition fee, whether this is the issue of the millionaire tax, all the issues where They are both in Hader and Zank, which already goes over weeks and months, and are unable to define even a small basic consensus. That is why we said: Yes, we need a referendum here, so that at least something goes on in this Republic! Both of them are unable to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, we also want to have a referendum when it comes to transferring 60 billion on the basis of our government revenue every year, half of it now, for a European rescue shield. We also want to have a referendum when it comes to whether Turkey should come to the European Union or not, where we as the Freedom Party have a clear view and where you are not able to say hi or hot to this day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You say here in Austria: Yes, Turkey is to continue to conduct accession negotiations and thus awaken the expectation that it will actually enter the European Community. Otherwise, you say the opposite again. – You do not even know any binding position on these central questions. That is why popular surveys are essential, and that is why we are fighting, in the noblest sense of the word: for this democracy, which has become a crisis through your policy of inactivity. Up to two thirds of people say that they are no longer satisfied with what it is now. This democracy is to be preserved, this democracy is to be revived, as it used to be, when the Austrians discussed on the street about questions that they may have decided as part of the electoral people. This is a development that is great when people begin to deal with political issues again: when discussed on the street, at the tribal tables, when there are referendums, popular surveys, if one still has the impression as a citizen of being able to say anything that has been made impossible by your rule! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yesterday – you have certainly seen it – Vice Chancellor Spindelegger complained in the “Time in Picture 2” that French President Sarkozy and German Chancellor Merkel were in charge of the big reform congress on 23 March. In October, they want to discuss how they intend to shape the European future. And he has rightly complained that Austria is not involved here, but he has to imagine how the Austrians are doing if you are able to determine over the heads of the people and no longer share them in the decisions. What you think is particularly true of the EIA, namely that we could really participate in the European Union, has clearly rejected Vice-Cancecian Spindelegger yesterday. The decisions are taken elsewhere, Austria cannot agree here. This has not been the case since yesterday, even in May of 2011. I only remember the informal meeting at the castle of Senningen, where Trichet, Juncker, Olli Rehn, representatives of Germany, France and Italy met and determined that the European Community should transfer 60 billion for Greece, and Finance Minister Fekter has had to tell the daily newspaper that this will be so. And you both whipped it through. However, this is not the policy we stand for, but you, as a member of the government, should get the mandate of the Austrian people before you go to Brussels, so that you know how the Austrians think what room you have for negotiation in Brussels in the design of European policy – and not just wait for what is required by the powerful Europeans you do not belong to, to be implemented in the 27 countries or in the Member States of the European Monetary Zone. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I know you probably have problems in agreeing to our request, but you have the opportunity to make your own request, which can be consistent, because what was made ridiculous by Klubobmann Cap and Klubobmann's head today, direct democracy, this is nothing but the proposal made by Federal Chancellor Faymann himself in the daily newspaper "Austria". So Klubobmann Cap makes his comrade chairman ridiculous with his kind of presentation. Stand up to these points that you have promised – to lead a binding referendum – and you will have our support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4537	Mr Wittmann spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4558	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! High house! This request is certainly not of great intellectual quality. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This has to be put at the top of all the explanations here. They from FPÖ are trying here to take a foothold on the playing field of direct democracy, but even as a party they have nothing to do with it, but really nothing about it. I remember the following: At the Hypo Alpe-Adria, 20 billion in liability, not 8 billion as for Greece, 20 billion in liability, were decided without questioning the members of the country day, let alone make a popular survey on it! They enter democracy, where you are in power, with feet and stand here and proclaim, direct democracy is the all-healing remedy. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Where was the survey of the population in Carinthia when you received a liability of 20 billion, namely both, the liberals and the BZÖ?- Oh, my God! Nowhere did you ask, nowhere was there voted on! This should be said clearly and clearly here. In the main book of the Freeman: Do you know when the decision was taken that Greece is entering the euro zone? ==References== June 2000! Do you know who was in the government at the time? – The Freeman! Where was the popular desire against the Greeks joining the euro zone, why did none exist? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At that time, there was a staff union even with the President-in-Office of Styria, Kurzmann, who was even sitting in the main committee and who expressly supported it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] Where, then, was the great desire for freedom against it? – You have to answer that, you have put it in our hands! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: A fool!]] And now you're making yourself up here and pretending you weren't there. ==References== This Decision was adopted on 14 June 2000. The meeting of the main committee was held in June. In this, Kurzmann – now his sign Partyobmann in Styria – and Scheuch – are his sign Partyobmann in Carinthia, of the Freeman! - had been. [[Abg. Kickl: How did the SPÖ vote?]] Where were they with the big announcements? Where were you? Why didn't you do anything back then? Then we'd have saved all of this. [[Abg. Kickl: How did the SPÖ vote?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] How was that with the Eurofighters, where was there a popular desire? Where did you fight it? – Nowhere have you resisted! You've announced it, but you haven't done anything else. In reality, what you're trying to do here is quite plump populism, and it's not intellectually high. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Let us talk about direct democracy: To claim that representative democracy is not democratic, I simply believe that it is a name that is not worthy of a Parliament which derives from representative democracy. Of course, one can also be in favour of introducing more direct democracy, but this instrument must be handled very carefully. There are many border areas where there will be difficulties with direct democracy. Let's just think about it: If we let the majority vote against the minority, who will protect the minority? One should not ask such questions as this, because this instrument must be handled very carefully. The second is: What happens to a popular survey? – Sometimes it is easy to afford groups better to camp. Is that what we want? Do we want to test the campaigning capacity of the industry or do we want to play the rich against the poor? [[Abg. Kickl: Are you talking about yourself or how?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Or do you want to deliver to the boulevard because there is the greatest campagnization capacity? [[Abg. New builder: class struggle, what you do!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these questions should already be asked if such a desire is expressed. In principle: yes. And there I am with the Federal Chancellor, because this is responsible. On a social-politically important question, such as military duty, one can very well let one vote, because there is everyone concerned – depending on how one wants to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Rosary: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: When?]] But that is also a really fundamental question. It makes sense, but to maintain a popular desire is pure populism. [[Abg. May. Stefan: We do it, or what?]] Because if you don't want to change it, why do you want to vote on it? Or do you have the suspicion that it might go out differently, and you want to provoke that? [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Call:Reiner Populism]] There is a lot of populism behind your questions, behind questioning the maintenance. [[Abg. May. Stefan: The maintenance of military service!]] If I want something different from the current state, then a successful desire has the consequence that the situation is changing. Then it makes sense – but not if something that is already valid right should be confirmed again, because then it is not a further development, but the maintenance of a particular situation, and then it is populism. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Just like the military duty!]] [[Abg. Kickl: What is this about military service now?]] I think a popular survey on military service is quite imaginable.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4808	Mr Dr. Strutz spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4833	Madam President. High house! Mr Wittmann claimed that the liability for the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank had been entered without the approval of the members of the Carinthian Landtag. [[Call the ÖVP: He didn't say that!]] He made this statement, and this statement is wrong. I'll fix that. Right and the truth is – first of all: The possibility to assume liability for banks, especially for the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank in Carinthia, was decided in the 1990s by the SPÖ and the ÖVP in the Carinthia Landtag. [[Congratulation of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, The liabilities of the country, in particular for the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank, are a fixed part of the budget decision. And the decision in the Kärntner Landtag, which also includes the acceptance of the liability, was decided on both sides – once with the agreement of the Social Democrats and once with the agreement of the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4880	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gerstl speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4902	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Madame and honourable gentlemen on the Government Bank! In the current debate, I have noticed two points in particular. First point: The application is as follows: “The Federal Government is invited to the National Council in accordance with Art. 49b B-VG to submit a request concerning the holding of a People’s Survey on the following matters for decision...’. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, why don't you make the request yourself? Why do you need the Federal Government to send you a request for the points you want? [[Abg. Neubauer: So that they finally work something!]] [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You could have worked a long time ago, my colleague. You have so far failed to write this request. And that shows what has already been said in this debate: This request has been made sloppy and short-term! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I asked myself a second question during today's debate: Why is the Freedom Party constantly talking about Switzerland? Why does she not talk about where she may have had influence in recent years? Why doesn't she talk about Carinthia? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Why didn't you talk about that? You in Carinthia also had the opportunity to hold a referendum? – In Carinthia there has been its own law of referendum in Carinthia since 1974. In your time of responsibility, you have never used it once to present a bill to the people of Carinthia for voting. That shows where you really stand, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Where you are in the opposition, it is quite different for you from where you are responsible for government, because you no longer know the principle of direct democracy, ladies and gentlemen, on the contrary. A few months ago, you conducted a letter survey on a law firm for which the Carinthian Landtag has no jurisdiction at all. They have tried to ask themselves again about something for which there is a responsibility of the federal government. Learn the Austrian federal constitution, ladies and gentlemen from the Freedom Party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the previous FPÖ party programme, which is now no longer valid, you have talked about trying to force the creation of the possibility of a referendum by the voters or a certain number of communities. In the current party program, it's not inside anymore, and in Carinthia you haven't done it once, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Riepl: Look at you!]] If we look at the situation in the rest of Europe, we are not just talking about Switzerland. There are only six states in the European Union where there is a promising form of participation for citizens on mandatory referendums. Five states have only joined the European Union in 2004, and in these countries the necessary number of signatures is so high that it has not yet succeeded in bringing about a legislative change. Ladies and gentlemen! In Italy, where there is also the possibility and regular use of popular desires, however, the popular desire never leads to changes because the participation remains below the required 50 percent. And right in there lies the horsefoot: Nowhere, not even in Switzerland, is participation in this type of referendum big enough to speak of a representative, democratically binding outcome. This must be remembered every time we talk about the principle of direct democracy: that we always remain in the area of majority decisions. The basic principle of representative democracy, which enables us to make decisions efficiently and quickly, is important in order not to delay important decisions unnecessarily. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, are leading, I believe, nothing else in the shield, but consciously putting yourself in the spotlight, for which every means is right. They like to play with the fears of the people, not in the positive sense, but see how you can abuse your greed for power to satisfy them. [[Abg. Riepl: Exactly!]] If you were concerned about the Republic, the stability of the state, then you would not quickly produce headlines with envy and disfavor, but then you would cooperate responsibly, then you would set yourself up and say, we are talking about the areas of responsibility of direct democracy and we are discussing this here in the house. In this context, do not make a show that will lead to nothing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: That you don't take the people seriously, you better not delete that out than today!]] If you could decide to give people pure wine, that endless growth is not possible, and at the same time help to ensure how to ensure prosperity in this country in the future, you would be able to participate productively in the design of Austria – and not in the sense that you are trying to make things bad. [[Abg. Strache: You don't need to try anything to prove that to you every day!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the sense of Europe, it is important that we stand together and fall where difficult decisions have to be made. It is important that we distinguish ourselves from those who, before taking over government responsibility, spoke differently than after the takeover – just as the Greens are doing in Vienna right now. A few months ago, they talked about the fact that citizens' participation is an important issue for them, and today they no longer know citizens' participation. It is important to talk to people, and we are doing so – but without you, Mr. Strache, that is truer and more direct.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5048	Next, Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5069	Ladies and gentlemen! I have already experienced many urgent questions and many urgent requests, but I have not yet received such a request as this. [[Abg. Straw: Pui devil, direct democracy is an abomination for the fungus!]] In what need have you really written it in nonsense, and what is your real motive? – On average, the printed works which the Freedom Party brings into this House are not of particular quality, but this urgent request emerges. Let me therefore briefly consider some of the possible motive for this unsuccessful urgent request. I assume that your intention was another one, because to reach referendums, there are completely different instruments and possibilities in this House and also outside this House. I assume that you have pursued a single interest in diverting from the freedom of corruption. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Ha!]] Mr Kickl, I assume that you have heard the accusation from Walter Meischberger of 10. November 2009 at least as well as I know. I can quote from this: “Inquires about two invoices from the Neue Freie Zeitung from 1.12.2004 and 28.12.2004 to the Tenty” – this is a Meischberger company – “over € 102,600 respectively. € 89,400 for the” – quote – “place different personalities and products, especially Telcos” – these are telecommunications companies –: “Although it is booked on the invoices, I believe that at least one invoice has not been paid.” – “... an invoice has not come to bear, but it has been very well paid. It goes on to say: “It was again about regulation in the telecoms sector, in order to pass on information, articles and research to the Neue Freie Zeitung for printing. In fact, says Mr. Meischberger, “it’s printing costs. I have agreed with the New Free Newspaper that stories, e.g. about the setting up of mobile masts, about considering the market determination of Telekom in relation to the private telecom providers, experiences from the environment of mobile phone masts etc. ....................................................................................................................... A journalist of the Neue Freien Zeitung then researched, conducted interviews and wrote corresponding articles. The NFZ then charged me with this activity. ==References== The forty-seven have acted on behalf of Hochegger. Hochegger had a total PR annual order from Telekom. I don't think there's a written order from Hochegger. The Tenty-four has re-confirmed these amounts in some form of high-egger.” So, what exactly happened now? The whole thing has been checked and is also detailed in the “Falter” tomorrow. What exactly happened? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mr. Meischberger takes Telekom-Gelder, whom he received from Mr. Hochegger, €192,000, goes to the “New Free News ” and gives her the money. The “New Free Newspaper” is known as the party body of the FPÖ, which is also owned by the FPÖ. [[Abg. New builder: agenda!]] So, what happens now for this €192,000? – Both the “Falter” journalist and I have looked at our vintages of the “New Free News ”: [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Please, call on the matter!]] There's nothing inside, it didn't appear! There's no performance! It's the old Meischberger problem: Mr. Strache, where's the performance? Mr. Kickl, where's the performance? 192 000 € from Telekom and no performance from the FPÖ! And that is why there is the concretely justified suspicion that these €192,000 from Telekom represent illegal party funding to the Austrian Freedom Party. That's how it looks! And that's now being examined, and that's not the only case! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I will now give you the problem of Telekom before I come to the FPÖ. [[Abg. New builder: The big decker!]] If the Telekom Board of Directors has received no benefit from the FPÖ – and after that it looks like it – then the concrete suspicion of unfaithfulness exists, and that is why we will be going to the prosecutor's office tomorrow. [[Abg. Strache: That was a really thin soup now!]] Secondly, In the case of illegal party financing, this amount cannot be deducted from the tax as an operating expenditure. If it happens, there is suspicion of tax evasion. But the decisive thing is the Freedom Party. You refer to the Federal Chancellor as “inserator” by the Freedom Party? – Probably right, but you, Mr. “Inserator” Kickl, and you, Mr. “Inserator” Strache, should come before your own advertisement door! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Are you willing to repay Mr. Strache, €192,000 to Deutsche Telekom? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] Are you willing to return Deutsche Telekom's property, or are you willing to perform any kind of service afterwards, or have you perhaps already provided a service, perhaps you have provided a service in the form of pleasures, law lobbying and so on for Deutsche Telekom? I'll tell you something: There is not only this one corruption case Telekom/Freedom Party, there is also another, and in this second case it is already about concrete law purchase with Telekom money. We will report in detail about this case tomorrow. It's enough for me when the liberals start to explain this story. So, Mr. Strache, Mr. Kickl and anyone. Where was the performance? We ask you not only here in the plenary session of the National Council, but we will also ask you to do so in the committee of inquiry. There you will have to answer our questions under the obligation of truth. They will have to answer the questions according to the most corrupt party of the Second Republic, the Freedom Party of Austria, according to our information and research by the public prosecutors. That is why it is also important to use the Committee of Inquiry as soon as possible so that we can finally clarify the systematic freedom of corruption, for which Mr Strache, Mr Kickl and others bear full political responsibility, and, I hope, we can end it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5208	Mr Klubobmann, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5233	Mr. Peter Pilz, you once again claimed a number of things in a truthful way today. The fact is, and I'm making it right: I became the chairman of the Austrian Freedom Party in 2005 and, as the chairman of the Austrian Freedom Party, I immediately secured a checklist on independent examiners who have reviewed all the areas. [[Vivid cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of the BZÖ]] These auditors have found that my predecessors have so to speak sucked off money from the Freedom Party and that debts have been left behind. All incorrect operations have been prepared and also made to display; they have even dealt with courts. We have therefore ensured that in 2005 under my leadership a clean, correct Freedom Party was created.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5266	Next, Mr Grosz.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5289	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I note once again that we are not in a parliamentary debate on democracy and the strengthening of democracy, but rather a collective approach to the past. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I take with me two curiousities of today's debate: Firstly, after 40 years in Parliament, Mr Cap seems to have a little messed up reality, so that he suddenly calls social democracy a bringer of the Temelín people's desire. Mr Cap, I understand. If you see nothing other than this hall for 40 years, and this dayin day out, you probably lose sight of the essential, for the truth. If one speaks of the “people out there ” from this pult of the Republic and actually has no idea of the circumstances of life, then one can already confuse some number. Only, Mr Cap: It's healing. By the way, there are also physicians – or the early board. You'd have to decide for yourself. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Second Curiosity of Today: I liked the talk of the Republic’s self-proclaimed Savonarola, Peter Pilz, but I missed an answer. Her colleagues today have all T-shirts, where something about the “Gläsern Partykasse” of the Greens stands for them, from party donations, party funding, membership contributions. First of all, I have missed the €220 000 from Mr Van der Bellen as an annual illegal party donation from the city of Vienna for red and green, and the second one I missed – please stop the calls! – was this party donation from Peek & Cloppenburg. [[Abg. Strache: The Langthalers, who collected something from the Hochegger!]] But I suppose these were the horrific t-shirts you got from there. Otherwise, in today's debate, I only noticed that the speeches by Red and Black were marked by nothing but abjectness. You come out here, talk about direct democracy, about citizen participation, and almost as at the October festival, you say: People out there don't understand that! They can't be expected to do that, instead of finally taking your role as a people's representative seriously again. You do not represent yourself, but you represent the people who shudder that it has been denied in the Republic of Austria of 2011, ladies and gentlemen! They decide on the lifeguard and lower €21 billion in Greece. [[Abg. Street: 29 billion! With interest 29 billion!]] They refuse to participate in the exit of EURATOM. They do not allow them to be included when it comes to finally bringing together 21 social security institutions in the framework of an administrative reform, so that there are no increases in contributions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have “eated” the wisdom with the spoon, and you think that democracy is not worth the citizen. I'll tell you: Elections on their own, ladies and gentlemen, do not yet make democracy! The Managing Director of the SPÖ, Rudas, after the manner of the Central Secretary of the KPdSU, demands all serious that 26 percent for social democracy automatically means a majority of just under 50 percent in that country, although, ladies and gentlemen, 74 percent of Austrians with your party cannot start anything at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This shows your access to democracy. You step in with democracy with feet to pragmatize your system of red and black nematism! I know you 'have' it with the officials, but we still live in a democracy in which the people must be elected and the people must also be involved. Since 1964 we have had a total of 34 popular desires in Austria. 31 have led to a treatment in this Parliament – 31 people desire you have shubbled. These 31 popular desires, which have been decided since 1964, were signed by 14 255 000 Austrians. You have just ignored the voice of more than 14 million Austrians in the last four decades and have you dared to speak of democracy here?- Oh, my God! We want direct democracy. We are not afraid of popular elections as in Switzerland. We are not afraid of the intellectuality of the citizens, because this is not about your intellectuality, so to speak, granted itself. The people have enough home mind, the people have enough logic to be able to take control of their future themselves, instead of overreacting them to a night watchman government on this government bank. [[OBJECTIVES]] That is why I would like to make the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues on more participation and direct democracy by means of "Internet People's Desire": The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to submit a draft law to the National Council as soon as possible, which allows so-called ‘Internet people’s desire’ and which in particular contains the following points. 1. Possibility for all eligible Austrians to start and support popular desires via the homepage of the Austrian Parliament, 2. Obligation to treat such popular desires in Parliament from 100,000 supporters, mandatory referendum on such popular desires from 400,000 signatorys, 3. Support is also intended to be available to public authorities via generally accessible public terminals, 4. Pre-examination of applications by an independent expert commission on the basis of clear criteria, e.g. to filter hateful and discriminatory claims.’ If you really are talking about democracy, if you really are talking about citizen participation, if you really are not afraid of the citizens of this country, who you always call “the ones out there”, if you are really, as we are, a part of “the ones out there”, then you agree with this request today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5388	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5477	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5498	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Rarely has it been seen that a subject is being treated in such a way and is tried to put aside the theme of the session entirely, as the Red, Black and Green have done today. With red and black I see the white fear, with green it is apparently the bad conscience, because they suddenly don't want to know anything about their own topics. If democracy is taken seriously – and this is the core of today’s subject, and you can still try so much to move it away – the core thing is that the right goes from the people and that the people is the Sovereign. And if you take this seriously, then finally the decision must be made by the people. Mr Klubobmann Kopf has explained to us here that the Constitution 1920 has been established, and there is a provision for elections – and that is it. But the people could never decide what democracy wanted. It has never decided on this, and this is the crucial point that we are dealing with today. And that is exactly what we call for the people to decide: Does it want more direct democracy? What form of indirect democracy does it want? This is exactly what this is all about, and the “dead down ” here is an insolence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I'll make an appropriate request, and if you're patient, you'll hear him right away. You know exactly that we have debated this very often here and that these are very clear views and demands of the Freedom Party, which have already been repeated. Then: Only claiming that elections would ultimately justify us mandates and thus all decisions is very bold, that is far too far-reaching. It is therefore also very important that we put this fundamental question of the people's right of initiative to debate and that we let the people decide how this state and democracy will eventually be formed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Any argument against direct democracy that we have heard here is contrary to the fact that only the people themselves have to decide how to look at direct democracy. That is not what you, as Members of Parliament, have to decide in the final consequence. And that's exactly the mistake of saying this segregation here again and again: What would come out of it? There it would be horrendous vote give: Free beer for all and abolition of taxes! That's what you want us to say: That the people are so stupid. And this born abjectity is really the greatest acidity! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we are dealing with political starkness – and this is precisely what the parties who are so much on the descending branch as SPÖ and ÖVP – I also understand that Mr Gerstl has been so intensely concerned with the FPÖ. As a Vienna ÖVP member, I would also look at how the FPÖ does this to have success. It must be recognized that there is a massive problem in Austria and that the population in the end does not feel really represented by us here. When Mr Kickl spoke about “favoring over” he did not say that this is not a democracy, what is going on here, but he said that there are always decisions where the opinion of the vast majority of the population is diametrically opposed to what is being voted on here. That's what we call driving over, and we need to be able to decide on the matter. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that there is a very different identification with the state and with the community in Switzerland is obvious. We do not need to discuss this now. And the fact that you take bonds there is also an absolutely sensible approach. I therefore put to the vote the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council in accordance with Art. 49b B-VG submit a request concerning the holding of a People's Survey on the extension of direct democracy by Swiss model for decision-making.’; That is exactly the crucial point: That we ask the people here that we will eventually establish the right of initiative of the people and then let the people decide how it really wants this state to be. In any case, that is in the sense of democracy, and that is in the sense of that state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am already hearing the argument – it has already been sounded – that there must be a catalogue of issues on which we cannot vote. Yes, if there is such a catalogue, then the people will decide on this catalogue! This is not a question of political correctness or the task of any withdrawn Members to create such a catalogue, but the people, the Sovereign, have to decide what this catalogue should look like. Finally, the crucial point is that we are developing democracy in Austria and giving the population the opportunity to decide independently on matters, not only, as has been the case so far, because of a grace from Parliament, perhaps by allowing a people's survey, at least graciously a referendum. No, no, no, Here, the sovereign must have the opportunity to become active. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't know what fear is going on here. I am sure that the people, perhaps not specifically some of the Members of Parliament here and also not the members of the government, also want indirect democracy, and above all they want responsible politicians. And a responsible politician is one who, on the one hand, makes decisions But the man or woman is enough and dares to question the people in a crucial matter. These are the truly responsible politicians, as the people wish. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So let us continue to develop democracy in Austria, in fact we also involve the people in substantive decisions! This would, in any case, raise the reputation of politics, improve cohesion in the population and identification with the state and with the community, and thus better prepare Austria for the future anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5651	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is also part of the discussion. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5710	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler to speak. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5734	Mr President. High house! Mr Klubobmann Cap and Mr Wittmann, as well as Mr Wittmann, said in fact that there had been no referendum and no popular desire for the euro under Haider. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - No, that was Temelín, but it's getting even thicker. I have added a copy of the 1997 brochure: “No EURO without a referendum!” it says on the front page. As another example, page 8: ‘Austria must also: No EURO without referendum!" And finally, so that you also have a picture of the fact that we carried this popular desire at the time: “No EURO without a referendum!” – with the image of Dr. Riess-Passer. [[Abg. Silhavy: You can't see that!]] That is to say, the claim made by the two Members is wrong and wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5775	The next item is Mrs Lueger's speech. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5796	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Direct democracy instead of red and black reform stand’. Let us take a look at the way Austria stands in the European comparison. What has Austria done so that we can stand there in a time that is very difficult, at a time of crisis? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You want to keep everything anyway, don't you?]] We have responded correctly because the purchasing power and the economy have been strengthened and the middle class has been relieved. And we can be proud that Austria is a social and a safe country. I would like to point out once again: Austria has the lowest unemployment rate at 3.7 percent in the EU comparison. The EU average is 9.5%. In terms of security, we are in the first place of 48 industrial states. In the case of youth unemployment, we have rank 2 at purchasing power Rank 4. In the field of health, we are also in rank 4 in the European comparison. In the context of the Mercer study, Vienna won a second prize. We know the Mercer study assesses the quality of life. Compared to 221 metropolises around the world, and if it were so bad in Vienna, then Vienna would not have been elected to the city for the second time with the highest quality of life. At the same time, there is also a certificate of performance and no delay and no standstill. 320 laws – and they have already been mentioned in part here today – we have decided that Austria will stand as it stands today. I've summarized the whole thing on twelve sides: The topics are economic, financial, labour and social, health, democracy and administration. These twelve pages with this amount of laws you should actually know, Mr. Strache, and know that we have decided them this way, because they are the basis of what Austria is doing today in the time of the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What you're doing today is: You are using a survey for a request that I do not want to say anything about its content. You said at the time: I'm going to be mayor. You said at the time: I'm going to be Federal Chancellor. - It didn't work out. [[Call at the ÖVP: Mayor of Minimundus!]] It won't work now, but you believe that now is the right time. What you are doing is an absolute abuse of direct democracy. They use it all for party policy purposes to get their own power. And with regard to this request, which you are quoting here, that 51 per cent are voting for new elections, I would just like to remind you of a 2002 OGM survey: 61 percent are against black and blue. 2005: 57 percent are against black and blue. – What did you draw from it at the time? Did you take the people seriously back then? They play with a popular survey, which is very, very poorly formulated, which is useful to you and seems useful to make your right-wing populist party policy. [[Abg. Strache: Are you afraid of the people?]] I'm not afraid of the people outside, certainly not. Because you're talking about driving: At the time, people did not wish that the passport fees were increased by 100 percent, which increased court fees by 100 percent. You didn't question the people! [[Abg. We want it now! They're preventing it!]] You decided to do that in the government at the time. We have a lot to do in a really difficult time and we also face the challenge together with the people, but with different means than you choose it. We do our policy responsibly and objectively in the future and do not spend our time exclusively visiting discotheques.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5884	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5906	Mr President. Mrs Lueger, I would like to join exactly what you have just said and underline it five times. We have to do it – and if I say to us, I mean the great coalition, then I mean the SPÖ, but also the ÖVP – much more in the future to govern this country constructively and responsibly. Because if this meeting has shown us one today, it is not that HC is the better German chancellor, what he would like, he has shown us in his entrance statement as well. Today he is not the Jeans-bearing rebel, but the suit-bearing German chancellor in spec he would like. That is, the knowledge from today's meeting can only be for us that SPÖ and ÖVP, who have the responsibility, have to tighten up the sleeves even more and have to make even more effort to offer solutions to problems that people in this country have. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, and also very well-respected spectators in front of the television screens, we will do just that, because there is no reason to believe that HC Strache as a populist opposition politician has ideas for how to govern this country, and I also tell you why. If we are talking about a crisis, both in the state budget in Austria and in the European Union, if Greece, then it is easy to say that we are against it. However, I miss the alternative concepts that a future Federal Chancellor is putting on the table here. There is no such thing as that. You learn in every communication seminar that as a lecturer, as a trainer, when you say, ladies and gentlemen, tell me what you want, and I will do it so that you may be happy. I hope that you can't rule a country like this, that's clear to us. I think you have to point this out often enough. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They are not concerned with solving problems in Austria or also in Europe. You have become famous with funny sage, which you place: “Our money for our lettuce” or the euro-saving screen, which you called “Hoffungs- und Knubelschluss”. That's all you can imagine. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Black is hot!]] It's just rhetoric. You have no solution to what financial stability would look like in the euro area if we had not acted as we decided last week. [[Abg. Strache: You apparently didn't listen to that!]] They have no solution to how to prevent financially healthy countries from being infected by this financial crisis. They also have no solution to how to prevent healthy countries such as Spain, such as Portugal, from suffering such a fate. [[Abg. They're healthy?]] Nor did you say what it means for the European, what it means for Austrian growth, for employment, when we send Greece to the pleasure. [[Abg. You didn't listen to that! There are very specific proposals from us!]] You don't want to talk about that. But, well, you don't want to be a member of the European Union either. Where are your visions now? Where are your plans? - There's no such thing as that. It has failed three times, we are dealing with issues on the agenda and we are trying to deal with them too. Just to say that we do not give the Greeks the money, which we did not even do with the law we passed last week, but we decided on the liability in the event of an occasion, does not move anything at all. This does not solve the Greek pleite either. The money to which they cannot be given is not a solution, but the solution is to motivate the Greeks and also to give them a chance to lead longer than planned reforms. [[Abg. Strache: But the Greek citizens see this completely different!]] That's why we're going to do it, and that's what we're going to get from the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Strache, if you congratulate the Slovak parties on a broadcast today and highlight the state of the politicians there, then stand with them in the same corner and say that your own populist interests go ahead of the objective of the state, also go ahead with European responsibility. [[Abg. Blow: Citizens' interests!]] Who are you for now? – Are you for our people, are you for Austria or are you for Slovakia? [[Abg. Street: For European citizens!]] Tell me who you are for! – For our people or for the others? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is high time that we also take measures for the Austrian government budget, with the debt brake that has already been announced, in order to comply with the Maastricht criteria. But it also takes measures to secure the future for the boys, keyword generation justice, generation scanning for laws, but also for how to continue with pensions in the future. I believe that what the social partners have presented is a first step, and €1.5 billion is an incentive. It must continue in this direction. One more thing: If you say the people should decide, why are you opposed to the introduction of tuition fees? From surveys we know that the people want the tuition fees. [[Abg. Let's have a vote. Why do you prevent the referendum?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You want to question the people, although you know that the population wants tuition fees. What you're doing is hypocrites, otherwise you'd have been doing what the people want for a long time. I'm just saying, hypocrites!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6061	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6083	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear listeners here in the house and at home, especially the flu diseases, who may now have the opportunity to follow us on our own. I just escaped the flu. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Kickl.]] Mr Grosz, before devoting myself to the subject: Just because you claim something multiple, it doesn't become more true. The fact is, colleague Van der Bellen has been university representative of the city of Vienna since the 2010 election, and his department has a budget for events, for resources, for support from the university institutes. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How many universities does the city of Vienna have?]] They don't need to try to put us in a light, as if the Greens were also a party that takes money from anywhere. That's a good thing with you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We clearly have white shirts, even though I left it up and not dressed. Mr Stefan, I have listened very closely to you. And personally, I even believe that you mean what you say, the goal you combine with direct democracy – not your party, but that is your problem. I have to tell you, however, that you have taken on an absolutely inadequate means. With this request, which has already been adequately discussed by my colleagues, with this urgent request, you will in no way be able to discuss direct democracy in any case, in any case, and you are not serving the discussion on the issue of political irration or party political irration. We all know that there are people here in this house who cannot be quite clear from themselves that in their parties everything is not about right things. Mr Pilz has just given you the FPÖ party finances that keep illegal party funding. We all know that there are condemned persons in your party, among other things, who do not consider it necessary to withdraw from their offices, but who highly stylize themselves as victims. And then do you think that we have no other problems than bringing direct democracy as an antidote to political indifference? – No, we have to fight corruption, we have to create very clear conditions here. It is necessary to investigate and clarify and make clear transparency. Only that can really eliminate party political insanity, but not direct democracy. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Both!]] Direct democracy must be a matter of course. It must not be an answer to irritations in the population, because party politics, just as it represents the government parties, but also you in the FPÖ and also the BZÖ here, leads to an outrage because you are absolutely corrupt. Party policy needs a supplement, and this supplement is direct democracy. If you are serious about direct democracy, you always mean it seriously and not only if you are not right! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Against this background, it is quite clear that we are positioning ourselves to direct democracy, as we did 25 years ago. The Greens are almost a party that arose from participation, citizen participation and direct democracy. And we also presented very clear ideas in the Austrian Convention, which did not come from your parties. On the contrary: They had zero ideas. And if you want to start the fight for direct democracy today – if we want to take it seriously – then you also start in your communities and your district groups; because these regularly oppose requests for citizens' participation, for example in Vienna to set up the Local Agenda 21, in certain districts, because they do not fit their contents. If you're serious, please go from the district level to the national level. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What exactly do we want now? – Direct democracy must be a complement to representative democracy. That is why we have prepared a motion for a resolution on direct democracy, which is now being tabled by me. It has been distributed to you and has the following key points on the content: On the one hand, the compulsive referendum for sufficiently supported popular desires. This means that if a people's desire receives a certain number of votes, there will be the possibility of holding a referendum on it. Because it is the fact that the regulation with regard to popular desires is currently unsatisfactory. It has already been mentioned today, 34 popular desires have been held in the Second Republic, 31 of them have reached the necessary votes and none of them has actually been implemented. But that also means that it needs the necessary framework conditions. There is a need for cost replacement, as it needs financial equipment for initiators, it needs information requirements, quite according to the example of Switzerland, where you have so-called voting books. That is to say, both parties have the opportunity to explain to the same extent their pros and contras. Furthermore, it takes times in public-law radio and television, that is, it takes space to pass on information. But it is also clear that there must be limits on content. Mr Stefan, I must disagree with you. Fundamental and human rights are not negotiable! They are also inconceivable, not open to majority voting. For me, there is clearly the limit of possible votes and popular desires. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We also call for a vetoreferendum. Say: If a law has been passed here in Parliament, a certain number of supporters should have the opportunity to demand that this vetoferendum be subject to a referendum. We also support the fact that the people as well as a minority in Parliament can initiate popular surveys. Furthermore, this distinguishes us from the requests you have made here today, we express our support for the fact that all people can decide where they live. This includes not only Austrian citizens, but also migrants and EU citizens. For these people too, we demand not only the right to vote, but also the right to participate in direct democratic instruments. We will discuss the European Citizens' Initiative very intensively this autumn. There we will still have to negotiate very intensively the implementation of national law. This European Citizens' Initiative offers opportunities that the People's Demand Act does not have yet; and we will continue to stick to when it comes to implementing it into national instruments. On the requests of the liberals for a People's Survey on Development: It is clear from the Constitutional Court that any extension of direct democracy must be subject to a referendum. So I don't understand why you want to put a popular survey, which is much weaker instrument. We shall therefore reject this request. We will agree with the requests made by the BZÖ because they are going in the same direction as our request. We will continue to fight for direct democracy! However, we will continue to fight corruption and abuse in this Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6177	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported. It was explained in the main guidelines whether its length was in accordance with § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure are already distributed to Members and are therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6359	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6380	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! If colleague Wittmann – where is he? – in response to the FPÖ's request that it be intellectually non-high, and the Neo-Deputy Gerstl then tries a constitutional law reading, namely with the postulate: [[Intervocation: He was right.]] “Learn the Austrian Constitution!” then it would have been expected that at least a constitutional argument would come – also from an chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Wittmann. The FPÖ's application is indeed unconstitutional. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as we support the issue, we cannot conduct a national survey on existing regulations. I can't! [[Abg. The Constitution can be changed!]] – This is what our federal constitution for amendments, but not for maintenance – three times retention, that is not possible. This is quite clear in teaching and in science and is also the result of the text of the kind. 49b. By the way, I say that I would like to have a referendum on the question of Transfer Union, EFSF or ESM. You, on the other hand, only demand a non-binding population survey. That is why, although we support the question in principle, we cannot support this request, it is actually unconstitutional. I would have expected from you, Mr. Peter Wittmann, that you would bring in a constitutional argument – and not only a suada of political press releases of socialist correspondence, which is, please, too little. If we are trying to achieve constitutional law, we should also have constitutional arguments. But that was not the case. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The same applies to the next request, Mr Stefan. Mr Stefan's request provides that the Federal Government, the National Council, should submit a request to us so that we can decide that a People's Survey on More Direct Democracy is conducted. According to Rule 49b, Mr Stefan, this can be done by each member. You can do what you demand from the Federal Government on your own. So why don't you make the application? Art. 49b provides that a single member of this House can do what Mr Stefan of the Federal Government wants. I don't need the federal government to do what I can by myself. That's why I don't understand. That is why we will also reject this request. As much as we support the matter in principle, it is simply constitutionally absurd. I do not know who wrote these requests to you, but they are not of the quality that should be expected in such a debate. [[Abg. Bucher: We have our own!]] - I'll be right there. Next constitutional argument – yes, by the Greens. I didn't look so astounded. What do you want? – A popular desire also about acts of execution. That is, in the future, we demand popular desire about asylum decisions – or criminal mandates. [[Abg. Head: Punishment mandates!]] Well, that's a new quality, it's not from bad parents! [[Abg. Head: I've been waiting for that for a long time!]] Then: People's surveys will be able to be initiated by the people in the future, including on acts of execution. What do you think the FPÖ would do with asylum records? – by the way, I'll say that. So this is really a dangerous threat. Then we will also decide whether or not to give you a building permit. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] Now it's much thicker: The challenge of the results of referendums. That is, once the people have decided, there are the Greens and they are fighting for it. I would like to know whether the Constitutional Court will then decide against the people. That's really a strong piece of strong tobak. Of course we won't take that, it's constitutional nonsense. Now to you, Federal Chancellor. I'd like to remind you of your letter. They literally wrote to the “Kronen Zeitung” in June 2008 – I quote: “In Austria too, there is a widespread scepticism towards the EU at present.” – Perfectly, Mr. Federal Chancellor. – “(...) today we meet a mood of uncertainty and sometimes also rejection.” – Mr. Federal Chancellor was a visionary. – “Many people complain of the EU’s democratic deficit and lack of transparency.” – How right he was! Then comes the big announcement, I quote Werner Faymann “On the basis of continuous information and an open discussion, we are of the opinion,” – not even we, Werner Faymann of God’s graces, but we, the Social Democracy – “that future Treaty changes that affect Austrian interests do not even affect – should be decided by a referendum in Austria. If, therefore, an amended reform treaty is to be ratified by Austria again, we want to convince the coalition partner of this procedure.” [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Kopf, how strong was the conviction that Mr Faymann had done? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] - Ah, you haven't arrived. Well, that's where he broke his own word for the first time. And now it comes: “This also applies to the possible accession of Turkey...” – “also” means, of course, that it applies to all other issues, which, I quote Werner Faymann – “affect Austrian interests”. Mr. Bundeskanzler, when it comes to billions – now again to the ESM – one can probably assume that – and all television viewers will be right for me – that there are Austrian interests, and I quote literally, “touched”. I also look at how you are proposing to the Austrian public a referendum on the proposals that Merkel and Sarkozy have now made, because “we” – and that is what he means by social democracy, because he does not speak in Pluralis Majestatis, I do not think so. [[Abg. Grosz: Well, who knows?]] - Who knows, yes, but I don't think so. So he assumes that the SPÖ will then demand a referendum. We'll have the test case very soon. In the previous test cases, Mr. Bundeskanzler, you have become verbatim – unless this letter has been applied only to the editor Dichand. Explain, please, to the House today, whether this letter was intended for the Austrian population or whether this letter was intended for your own comrades or whether this letter was intended only for the editor Dichand. If you stick to the line you have so far represented, I have to assume that he was written only for Mr. Dichand. You know, Federal Chancellor, you don't have to point your finger at any group in here. Then you really don't need to show with your long finger. Therefore, I would like to help you with the jumps and submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to speak to you, Mr Bundeskanzler. And now I am excited how your group takes you seriously with your letter to Digand. If you do so by the SPÖ, you must accept this request today! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] If you reject this request today, then nothing is to be said about your word, then you have become verbal, Federal Chancellor. That's a real test case today, and it's constitutional, believe me! If Austrian interests are affected and this results in a change of contract, then you have promised, there is a referendum. We will look at exactly how your group is voting today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6555	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6662	Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek spoke on an actual correction. I recall the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give the floor to you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6687	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler has just claimed that popular decision-making challenges are stupid. I'm actually correcting him. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is it for an actual correction?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He didn't say that! He said that's what's in the application! He's quoted from the application!]] It is already enshrined in the federal constitution, namely under Article 141(1). 3 – I read it to you again –: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President! Breaking the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is clearly a breach of the Rules of Procedure!]] “ Under what conditions the Constitutional Court of Justice has to decide on challenges to the outcome of popular desires, popular surveys or referendums, it is governed by federal law.” And that's also regulated. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not even the club woman knows what an actual correction is!]] And by the way, it is very important. I think that you should consider very carefully whether or not you have a call for an election. You want to abolish it or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6806	Mrs Colleague, you are very close to an actual correction, but I let her apply once. [[Abg. Grosz: Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Grosz referred to the Rules of Procedure. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6841	Mr President. High house! What has just been done by Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig is a clear breach of the Rules of Procedure. Apparently, she was only referring to the television time, and so that she still gets some publicity here, she mis-quotes Deputies Stadler. The MEP Stadler has found here,... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He has quoted from the application!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6867	Mr Colleague – you have already made the point –: A word on the Rules of Procedure includes the fact that you are also making a business request. [[Abg. Grosz: I do that too!]] I would therefore ask you to put this forward and then explain it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6894	Of course! . The request is to you, Mr President, to comply with the Rules of Procedure in the future, including in case of responses.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6921	Mr President, this is not a request in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Grosz: (continues without microphone) That's the first! – The second is...!]] I now give the floor to the next speaker, because you just want to hide television time. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Strutz, who is speaking for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6961	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! The fact that I personally noticed in the debate is that you, Mr President-in-Office, have not said anything in your opinion about the far-reaching accusation that has come from all the parties, namely the standstill in the Federal Government. And today's attempt to involve the people in this is a new start, is a renewed attempt to halt this situation, this pathetic situation, which has existed between the two coalition parties for years and simply leads to nothing going on in Austria to eliminate. And if we've just been dealing with the accusation of populism several times today by the ÖVP – the clubman's head – I'll tell you: If it is populism to involve the people in democratic decisions, if it is populism to represent the interests of the Austrians, then I am, then we liberals like populists here in Parliament, because the Austrians need a lobby here in the High House, a lobby in the positive sense, because you have long been no longer representing the interests of the Austrians by SPÖ and ÖVP. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Where's your reform that you've announced for years? – Absolute standstill in education reform, in health reform! If your health reform, Mr. Bundeskanzler, looks like you're recruiting together with the Minister of Health: “Government Faymann stops the two-class medicine,” I'll just tell you: [[the speaker shall keep the appropriate page of a newspaper up to date]] Please go to a hospital in Vienna and see what is happening there! There's no two-class medicine, there's the three-class medicine. And this is the development in the health sector annual increases between 6 and 10 percent. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] Where do your promises take place here? - Stand still! Calm down! You will only become active when it comes to repossessing our money and our tax money to the Member States. That is why we say: This is not in the interest of the Austrians. What are you afraid of, what are you afraid of, if we bring in an initiative to involve the people? That is why I am also making a request from the liberals, who are, as it were, seen as a new way out, to make the use of the legal institution of the People's Survey a minority right, because the government with its majority is not willing and not willing to involve the Austrians. The content of this resolution: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government template which is a reform of the kind. 49b B-VG means that a population survey of one-third of the members of the National Council – that is, a real minority right – can be ‘required or demanded by 100,000 eligible persons’. For you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, do not represent the interests of the Austrians, you represent the interests of the banks – while we say we have to consider the small savers in the present time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You, Mrs Collaborative of the SPÖ, represent the interests of immigrants – while we say: Austria first! You represent the interests of Greece, Italy, Portugal – while we say that we must represent here the interests of young people, the young people who have eliminated the soup of their debt policy. What you are doing is no longer in the interest of the Austrians. That's why: Has Don't be afraid of the integration of our people! Give it to the possibility of a minority right to involve the population here too, a chance!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7069	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in a material context and is under negotiation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: To the Rules of Procedure!]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7129	For business treatment, Mr Mag. Stadler to speak. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7155	Mr President. I call for a short break in the sitting so that it can be clarified what is going on with the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Daniela Musiol, Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues in relation to direct democracy, because it was put forward “in the course of the debate on the urgent request in the special session on 13.10.2011” – that is tomorrow. However, tomorrow's special meeting is not yet the subject. Maybe you can explain this in a short way.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7203	I am not going to take a break in the sitting now, because we arrived almost at the end of the debate on this subject. The request has also been explained and distributed and is for the vote as it is before you. [[Abg. Grosz: But we don't have the 13.10. today!]] You do not have to vote for it pro or counter. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Is the 13th? – The Gregorian calendar does not foresee that!]] The next item is the report by Mr Herz, Member of Parliament. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7261	When Mr Westenthaler is finished with his calls, I will start. First of all, Mr Strache. Mr Strache, you are talking about more democracy, more democracy in this country. I give you a good advice: Start with it yourself! How is this with a person convicted of corruption for 18 months in your ranks who is in public offices? – This is democracy, you can prove something! Or Mrs Winter, who, although legally condemned for hetze, is sitting here in a democratic Parliament. [[Abg. Strache: That was a display process like the Timoshenko!]] Or: Wouldn't it also be a prerequisite for the democracy of the FPÖ that you clean up once with the brown spots in your party? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You need it!]] Wouldn't it be necessary to find clear words to the Causa Kurzmann, as far as hetze and action against religious freedom are concerned? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And, Mr Strache, would you not serve democracy if you once, as far as the Scandale BUWOG, Hypo, Eurofighter and Telekom are concerned, a commitment by the FPÖ to your responsibility? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:..., Androsch!]] And wouldn't it be democratic for you to face the Carinthian head of state who wants to abolish the ÖGB, where the trade unionists are asking for the workers to get fair wages? [[Abg. Street: Where not even your own pensions are paid and the union fees are reduced!]] You should comment on this, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Look, your request has been broken down in terms of content, there is no longer much to say about it. But that the Vienna FPÖ – I would like to remind you of this – voted against at the last popular survey, you see, ladies and gentlemen: [[Abg. Strache: You mean, the dog stubble questions?]] Populism, telling something about it – reality does not stand by it, you last agitated against it. [[Abg. Strache: This is your dog's stockings question level!]] My God, I want to deal with the BZÖ only according to the 3 percent you still represent in surveys. Now there's an e-voting proposal. This is a colossal nonsense, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Street: (in the direction of BZÖ) abuse susceptible! That's not really...!]] We have only experienced what this has led to during the high school elections: a legal, factual and formal disaster. 0.9 percent have participated. And now the BZÖ comes with e-voting! You're on your way to 2%, I can only tell you. As far as “more democracy” is concerned, we do not need to be instructed by anyone as SPÖ. One can of course discuss the subject in a material and serious way. But, ladies and gentlemen, is there a system question in Austria? Second Republic, social partnership, parliamentary democracy, which is in fact praised worldwide, is internationally recognized, in the European Union a model – well, all this cannot work so badly! In the case of unemployment, we are the best, those who claim best that has worked to combat the crisis, companies have employment, social peace prevails in the country. And are there no accomplishments? – Health care, for example! People who have an accident abroad say: Bring me home to Austria quickly, I want to go to my family doctor, I want to go to the ambulance! Or: In the care money we are world champions by far. 5 percent of the population receive care money! This does not even exist in the Scandinavian countries, which are also quite progressive. Or: How respectfully we deal with the older generation! And there are also reforms in the countries, ladies and gentlemen. For example – and this should be imitated – the Styria, with a structural reform in terms of country policy, state administration, structural changes in the municipalities, is certainly. This is widely recognized by the population! No, no, the FPÖ is not authorized to give advice here, or to practice system criticism. You lack the constructive element completely! For example, if I look at this in the Styria, where it is so recognized what is being done there – but the shortman is against everything. There is a Charter on Living Together, on Migration – it is rejected! The new structures in health – rejected! Municipal cooperations – will be rejected! [[Abg. New builder: nonsense! What the hell is this?]] The merger of the District Head Teams – is rejected by the FPÖ. Who is against the administrative reform? To the FPÖ! Who's against the budget? - The FPÖ! And democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is it in good hands at the FPÖ? – This is the staircase of history, Mr. Strache. Putsch, squabbles, colorings, new formations – this marks the last decade of the FPÖ to distract from the scandals and ultimately to cast off the economy. Faith You really do, the population has confidence in your democratic theses? That's laughing! Her party has once proclaimed a third republic, and in the end the hypo scandal has come out, the largest scandal in the history of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: Have you followed the last election results? I think they passed you!]] Thank you, Mr. Strache! No, no, we don't need all of that. And the bill is finally presented by the voters and voters.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7451	Next, Mr Mayer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7473	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The presentation of the work of the Federal Government, especially through certain media and the opposition, is already something to be questioned. Reform status is criticized, and it has almost become a folk sport to demand reforms. But it's clear, and that's what you have to admit: Discussions on important issues such as compulsory military service or tuition fees also need their time. And one can also criticise this, which is also legitimate, but one should not small the successes of this federal government, because there is much to show. My previous speaker has already listed a lot, I am saving you this long list of the tasks of this coalition. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Where is she?]] [[Abg. Strache: It’s so “long” that you don’t think anything!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Where is this list? – You have nothing to do with your heart!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria has a functioning democracy, and direct democracy has often been successfully applied – Zwentendorf is an example of this. But I refuse to use such popular surveys and referendums inflationaryly, because they will lose their worth. [[Abg. Strache: That's why you rule out them, gell? That's your attitude!]] In principle, Parliament is here to pass laws and not to constantly order people's surveys. Interesting is the voting behaviour of the FPÖ on some of the laws and their reasons for doing so, as last yesterday in the Environment Committee on the Climate Change Act. That's what they said: We do not agree that the law has only two and a half sides, that cannot be an effective law! – If this is your determination to the quality of a law, we will provide all the laws with 600 pages in the future, and then you may also be right. [[Abg. There's nothing in there! After five years!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Were you in the Environment Committee yesterday?]] But you can already understand why the instrument of popular survey is so important to you, because if you do not know for yourself why and why, then you have to ask others. [[Abg. Neubauer: You will still be able to get the farmers to run away from you!]] In the end, however, we are dealing with the core problem of political starry and the low participation rate. We are all, ladies and gentlemen, calling for this to be improved, especially among the people outside the constituencies. We have to communicate politics there, and we will also be evaluated for this work outside the constituencies, namely with the preferred votes in the elections, and that is the final testimony that we politicians will receive. I would also be very much in favour of upgrading these preferential votes. In this sense, I think we have to say more about what we are doing, and in particular more about what we are saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7587	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. The remaining speaking time of your group is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7616	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For self-congratulation, Mr. Herb, there is no reason in this debate – in all clarity – despite success or failure. We are not talking about this, but we are talking about a serious issue. But it is also about political culture in this country and in this house. We would probably meet with you – or safely – rather than with those of FPÖ and BZÖ. One thing is already striking, Mr Stadler, to follow up on your speech: It's probably right what you said about the SPÖ, it's also quite discussive whether at a request of the 12th or the 13th. This is not the question, but it is so important, Mr Stadler. I wonder where the excitement in the series of FPÖ and BZÖ comes from. As an explanation for this, only one remains for me. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Just one thing is up right now!]] They apply for popular surveys on any selected topics, such as a limited millionaire solidarity tax. This is completely incomprehensible from the conceptual point of view. I actually do not want a solidarity tax with millionaires. When it came to a solidarity tax on millionaires in the past, your partyobmann, Mr Strache, was always opposed to saying that clearly. [[Abg. Fuck you!]] - Yes, of course. [[Abg. That's a nonsense! We asked for this in our programme years ago!]] There is also no reason at all, Mr. Strache, that millionaires or – we say – people with high incomes should only pay for something limited in time. [[Abg. Neubauer: Do you have a high income?]] Why is it only temporary, Mr. Strache? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we are of the opinion that it takes a fair contribution from all, please not from those who have a lot in particular, only a temporary contribution. I wonder during this debate all the time whether the issues in this request for popular surveys have been somehow thrown together as in a lottery. With the lottery, Mr. Strache, you have your experiences! The “Neue Freie Zeitung” has been financed by the Austrian Lotteries and the Casinos Austria. [[Abg. Street: The ads!]] Because we're just on the subject: Participant financing. . I ask you whether the rumor for the resignation of Mr Königshofer is true. Is it true that the resignation of Mr Königshofer was bought by you that you gave him money to resign? Maybe you can answer this question. Furthermore, I would like the motion for a resolution...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7710	Mr Oellinger, the speaking time for the group as a whole has already been exceeded. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Make a new request tomorrow!]] Therefore, it is now no longer possible for you to submit the application. But there is still sufficient opportunity here in the House to deal with such issues, namely at the next item on the negotiations. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. Oils.]] The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7754	Mr President. High house! Green and direct democracy – this is a topic of its own. The Euro Rescue Screen, which deals with billions of liabilities, Greece's direct aid, This is not a matter for the Greens at all. I can recommend the Greens to read the “Falter” of this week, which reports about the angry citizens, the crisis and the fantastic threat potential of the bankers. It's a lot of what's in it. I would like the Green Party to return to the basic democratic origins and really bind citizens once more and not just talk about it. It was also true in Upper Austria. When one wanted to build the Linz music theatre in Perg, one conducted a popular survey. I have collected signatures for this. 300,000 people have said no. And what is the result? – SPÖ, ÖVP and also the Greens have increased the quota for the launch of a popular survey from 4 to 8 percent. And now is being built with your support! I only say that if this is your view of direct democracy, then that is the wrong thing. Finally, I would like to make one more request, because it is ultimately also about the banking crisis. It is known that the First Bank is in great difficulty; two weeks ago, 700 million plus, now expected to be 970 million minus. Or the Dexia Bank: initially still well rated, during the so-called stress test of the banks also crashed. She's been nationalized. We want to know how much money the citizens actually hold. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think we should. We should decide this because the voters have a right to know how high the liability will be and what he, perhaps as a Christmas gift, will have to pay on bank liability.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7818	Mr Widmann, I understand that, under this urgent request, we want to subsume all possible issues, but your motion for a resolution is in fact in no way in any way related to the subject. In this context, it is not possible to vote on a deadline request for a bank aid package relating to the FMA. That is why I will not allow this motion for a resolution in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure. The next speaker was Mr Grossruck. Your group still has 2 minutes left to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7850	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! If you make a short summary, you see positive aspects. The parties discussed the development of democracy. I mean, if everything else develops further, if the world is developing, then democracy must also develop, whether it goes towards using modern structures or also, according to our proposal, to strengthen the right to vote in personality. I was disappointed by the FPÖ, which submitted a collection of applications to which my previous speaker Karl Öllinger referred. It seems to me like aunt. Emma's democratic shop: Do you want a little more? Can it be a little more? Do you bring the blank back? - That was about it. I think if you want to deal seriously with a subject, you have to do it differently. But I'm not just criticizing the one side. There is a saying that reads: In the short term is the sausage! – But it was too little to discuss content. Our clubman pointed out that there is no standstill. He has listed what the government has done. The Federal Chancellor has addressed the EU problem. We know that the European Union is not a complete one, it is not yet a fully functioning instrument, it belongs further developed. You could compare it to someone who gets a bike to drive with, although a pedal is disassembled. He can't drive well with that. On the one hand, to criticize the fact that the EU is too strong, but on the other hand not to give it the necessary instruments to solve problems, that is, I think, too little, and that would be too cheap. That is why we are in favour of strengthening the instruments so that crises like these can also be solved. I quote at the end – since the BZÖ is now always putting proverbs from the Bible –: [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign]] “Beware of false prophets!” Such a poster, I think, belongs to some of the opposition. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7894	As the last speaker on this item in the debate, Mr Ing. Lugar in word. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7926	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at how much wonder some people have that Greece, Spain, Italy and other countries are in difficulties in paying, and, of course, as everyone is expected to see those countries that have managed well, I wonder if this development was not foreseeable. Let's look back into the past. Even I can still remember that Greece and Italy, for example, have always been in payment difficulties. It is, after all, part of the Greek and Italian cultures, constantly creatively dealing with their payment flows, permanently weakening the currency, driving inflation up and trying with all possible tricks to keep their currency alive accordingly. That's nothing new. We have forced these countries into the euro and then assumed that this can and must work, which is why there has been the convergence criteria that I believe are very useful. The problem was just that nobody kept it. The problem was, it didn't matter to everyone, even Germany piffed on it. At the latest, it was clear that everyone else will not stick to it – and that was the problem. Now we are faced with the situation that we are in debt over all the measures in European monetary union, and now the question is: Do what? – And what are we doing? We are chaining to countries like Greece or now Italy, which are going to go down. You have to imagine that once! If Italy goes down, it will be for all the European countries that can still pay – and there are no more many of them; Austria and Germany are in the first place to mention – enormous problems arise. In other words, we will have to increase taxes massively in order to raise all the amounts that will be necessary. Now I'm wondering, Is that what anyone wants? - And that's exactly what we're on the subject. Now we are on the subject of popular survey, referendum. At the time when we introduced the euro, millions were spent on advertising to inform people how good it will be, how positive it will be. At that time, there was the Ederer-thousand. There have only been positive aspects in all colors. At the time, people should have been told that they had to stand up for such marode countries as Greece and Italy – they were already marod at the time. But it has been said that if we leave them in the euro area, there are convergence criteria that everyone must comply with. There is this no-bail-out clause, which means that no country has to stand up for the other country. I can still remember this discussion. At the time, Jörg Haider said that we probably have to finance those countries in difficulty in the euro area. That's what he said at the time. But then someone from the SPÖ pointed out that the Treaties say that it does not have to be taken into account that no country, that is, Austria, must be held liable for others. That's what Jörg Haider was talking about at the time, but it's said he's crazy. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What you're talking about, it's all in the contract. And what's today? - That's exactly what happened today. We have to stand up for these countries, and no one has asked us. No one asked us Austrians if we wanted to. If FPÖ and others now demand more national participation, it says: For God's sake, we can't believe that to the people! Mr Wittmann of the SPÖ said that such referendums were susceptible to manipulation, because someone with a lot of money could push in some direction. What was the euro then? There was also someone with a lot of money: the European Union. At the time, the Federal Government spent a lot of money to persuade people: That's exactly the right thing to do. The euro will be stable, the euro will make sense. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the FPÖ.]] What happened? – It is now the case that we are hanging on to this euro’s success and ruin. And one thing is quite certain: If Greece and then Italy are pleading, then good night, Austria! We can't vote that. The 30 billion of Greece alone cannot be handled. That's almost half the budget. If Italy is still in place, we are talking about 50 billion upwards – almost the entire budget that will flow in there. In addition, dark clouds rise up in the sky. We know that the financial crisis that began in 2008 was a debt crisis that then spread to the banking sector and now to all states is not over. We have once breathed through, and I have already been a year and a half ago, when many have been happy and meant, now we have managed, now the government has freed us from this depth, now it is going up again and everything is fine again, said, that is a breath, a breath in the crisis, but the crisis will come back even more brutal than we have experienced. What does the Federal Government do in return? . We're chaining to pleite countries that can't be saved. That's the first one. And the second is – and this is even worse, there we are in the refusal to reform – that in Austria we have countless large-scale construction sites, whether the health or whether this is the administration, whether they are pensions or whether they are schools. It is practically every area worthy of reform, every area. And what happens? - Zero! Absolutely nothing! Can you tell me something productive, Mr Faymann, what you have done in the last three years, what would be done in any way to solve our problems? [[Abg. Riepl: Say what you would like to do!]] We have huge problems in almost all areas. For example, when I look at the school area: We teach our children as we did a hundred years ago, at a time when we do not know 50 percent of the future professions at all. Only 20, 30 years after our children have entered work will there be these professions. That means we have a dynamic world, but we do not respond to it! Our school system is like that a hundred years ago, and nobody does anything. ÖVP and SPÖ are blocking each other in this matter. Or: the health system. Our health system is not the world class, as you have said, Mr Cap. Our health system is not world-class. It is roughly improveable and capable of improvement. But no one does what in this area, because the country's competences are not to be cut down. But above all, the pension system stands. There is virtually no expert in this country who believes that the pension system will still be eligible for funding in 20 or 30 years. Most experts see it collapsing as early as 2020. It won't take that long. In nine years, many experts believe, the pension system will collapse. And what are we doing? - Nothing! The government doesn't do anything! We let the people go into retirement at the ÖBB at 52 years of age. We are extending the hacker regulation, which was meant to be well, but was made bad, which ultimately does not benefit those who need it, namely the construction workers and heavy workers. They need them, certainly not the officials and contract staff, but they are retired in a number of ways. We afford 460 000 – almost half a million – invalidity pensioners and are therefore approximately double to triple in international comparison. Either the people in us are so early invalid because they work so hard, or the system is so built that it simply lets anyone who wants to go. [[Abg. Riepl: Make a suggestion!]] - I'll be right there. [[Abg. Riepl: I hope so! The speaking time is about to come!]] If we involve the people, then we must bind it unconditionally and not just where we believe that this is going in our direction. That is, if I hear from the SPÖ, we don't want a referendum, it could be that the answers don't fit us, then I have to say that's not democratic access. [[Abg. Riepl: Who said that?]] The people are the sovereign, and we politicians must not shut down before that. That's what it's all about. If the people have an opinion, we have to respect it. It's not the other way round: we tell the people what it's supposed to think. We need to listen to what the people tell us. That's exactly the point. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Thank you. [[Abg. Strache: What G’scheites belongs to supported!]] That is why we should consult the people. When it comes to refusing reform, I can guarantee you one thing: The people want an actionable government that cleans up in our country and finally addresses the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8051	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Independent motion for a resolution 1685/A(E) by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the holding of popular surveys. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on more participation and direct democracy by means of 'Internet people'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Abg. Riepl: The booker is not here at all! It's missing again!]] – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Stefan, colleagues on the extension of direct democracy by Swiss example. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Musiol, colleagues and colleagues on direct democracy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, on the general obligation to implement referendums on EU Treaty changes. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. [[Abg. Strache: What about the SPÖ?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You stand up out of solidarity, Federal Chancellor!]] – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stefan, colleagues on the design of the People's Survey as a minority law. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Rädler:... Don't green for it either!]] [[16:30:11]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8176	We now come to the brief debate on the request made by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 945/A(E) by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on ‘Gläser Party Banks’, a deadline until 14. ==References== We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. The word will first be given to the applicant? No, the floor is given first by Mr Magistrate. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (on the way to the speaker's desk) For example!]] Kogler. I'll give it to him with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8215	Mr President. You mentioned it: It is about the application for the “glass party funds”, which has already been filed in January 2010. Why do we apply for this deadline? – It is quite clear that, after the scandals we now have to deal with in the Committee of Inquiry, we have to do more or less at the same time to regain credibility in the central anti-corruption rules. At the heart of any fight against corruption is certainly the question of transparency, the question of disclosure, in this case of party revenue, in particular of party donations, in addition, and in addition, the disclosure of all political and political incomes. With transparency, we have already done most of what we can regulate, because then other things are not so strict as long as the people, the voters, know what everything is actually done, who gets money from who. Now we are actually on the point – we can do this very briefly – that the government parties have been guilty of the proposals here in the house for a year, Mr. Kopf, for a year now, Mr. Cap! This legislative initiative, this motion for a resolution has been here since 2010, and we will not leave you out now, namely that things are being dealt with more quickly here. If we want to put an anti-corruption and transparency package on the journey, the party donation law will be the essential! Here you finally have to confess color and you can no longer stop the game in this way. If you continue to do so, you will have to ask yourself the question, Mr Klubobmann Kopf – because you are just talking to the former Secretary of State for Finance – how much you get from the ÖVP from the Raiffeisen Group without really declaring it, even without having to declare it at all, how much you get about large corporations, about industrial associations – a wonderfully legally legitimate fund-laundering plant – into your party funds, and so on and so on. Now I am not saying that all of this can be prevented by this law, because of course there are always circumvention possibilities. But first of all, the law can be formulated in such a way that it is made more difficult. Hard sanctions must be introduced in particular! This, of course, will increase the level of inhibition against doing so. We remember that in the Federal Republic of Germany, people such as party managers or other radio stations are in danger of going to prison if they do what is expressly permitted by law. It can't stay like that! We are at the end of these provisions in Europe. It is also necessary to set a deadline because it will be all the highest time to clean this up, not only in the light of the current scandals, but also in the light of the fact that the next GRECO report – the Anti-Corruption Group report, if you wish, will be available to the States in the Council of Europe – this time – the report and GRECO – the two issues of "corruption provisions for Members" and, on the other hand, "open party finances". These are exactly the two areas in which Austria is the longest sparsest and in which we are at the end of each case in Europe! They will no longer be able to cope with the public pressure that will arise here. So tell yourself when it comes to finally bringing something forward in this House – this is going to be negotiated by Parliament and nobody else – in this House. Only then is the credibility of the new beginning guaranteed. At the end of the day, I will tell you why we are very skeptical here that there is something going on, but we will be putting pressure on you so much that at the end you will probably not be able to change. Today we have the draft, the government template here in the form of the Lobbyist Act. This has a parallel to the party finance and the party donation disclosures. We remember: Grasser, Strasser – especially Strasser – and so on. Bandion-Ortner has just called a summit of the spearheads to which she has added herself to fight corruption. Among other things, the package of this Lobbyist Act included negotiation and formulation. Not only that, at the end of the day, only the government parties have negotiated history, together with the chambers – this is once a story – it is so that from the first draft of this law to what is now left, all – if any – teeth have been pulled away. It's really a cleaner! We will now and here – and this is also a reason for this deadline – to take this to the record, because that is exactly what must not happen and just so these anti-corruption and transparency laws cannot fail! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are two essential points that would have been worth truly being enshrined in such a law. This includes the registration of lobbyist activity by order, namely: Who pays for what so that he intervenes with which third parties? – All of this has not been subject to the public obligation now! [[Abg. Rädler: (significant towards greenery)... and who pays this?]] That's just what's registered, without the amount of order, for the Quasi secrecy. Only the lobbyist and the one who commissioned the lobbyist can make sure that they are actually quoted in it. And the official who believes he has been addressed by a lobbyist may then go and see – but must first prove that this was perhaps a lobbyist – whether he is in it. There's no such thing as absurd! This is exactly the same parallel as the Party Act, that the parties may report the donations to the President of the Court of Auditors, whereupon they may be imprisoned and not talk about them at all. The President of the Court of Auditors may only talk about the donation of the party if the party concerned says to the President of the Court of Auditors: Please, take it off because I want to defend myself! But the real idea that there is a transparency law to prevent abuse from taking place from the outset because there is public insight is, of course, completely undermined. These are protection provisions, these are regular provisions for the protection of evils! Here too: quite the same procedure – if this is to be a transparency law, then good night! You will reap our bitter resistance to this lobbyist law at this point. It's a cleanery, what you've presented here, after all – because you're suddenly looking so scared now; you're not hurting that anyway – so you're going to go along with the process. [[Abg. Head: Can you talk to the people normally?]] We have discussed in detail the question of what points are in here in the context of five-party talks. It has then been taken over by the ÖVP and the SPÖ to negotiate something here. Do you know what happened? – When the representatives wanted to negotiate the opposition, the government, namely the ministry, said: We must first give this to the SPÖ, because this would be an unequal treatment if perhaps it were a blue or green Member before! Be it about how you deal with each other – but that at the same time the ORF has had the drafts because Mrs. Federal Minister Karl has wanted to make the mood and has claimed something that is not at all in the law, only to make positive wind, although she has actually attacked the fog machine, is unacceptable. So we will not bring to the ground any transparency law, just because of this procedure! I would like to draw all the Members' attention to it here – a few of them look really scared, completely right, knowing what they should decide here again. [[Abg. Rädler: Van der Bellen looks g’fucking!]] These are laws that we should decide on behalf of more transparency, which the Federal Government had previously taken out, with the exception of the opposition, although something quite different had been excluded?- Oh, my God! Then the law looks exactly the same as it was to be feared: The lobbyists are brought hidden instead of to the public, the shops are made hidden instead of transparently transparent! Best treat at the end: In the case of administrative procedures, such as public tenders, this should not apply at all! You must look at the list of derogations. That's why you're wondering why you have the law at all. It would be like the party law: Better we don't have it because only the appearance is awakened. The public tendering procedures are completely excluded! With this lobbyist law, the Mensdorffs, the Meischbergers, the Hocheggers in the BUWOG procedure, in the procedure OMV – which you do not want in the U-committee – but also in Eurofighter have nothing to do with the matter, because it is as if public calls are dealt with correctly anyway! No, there is no lobbyist Steininger who carried the millions through the area during the open call. There's no such thing! That's how her law looks: It wouldn't have been tanged yet! You can keep that! They will recognise that this is actually the next disorder of transparency and does not contribute to transparency. [[Abg. Rädler: (Newly in the direction of Abg. Van der Bellen clearly) Look over there!]] If this is to be your contribution to the new beginning of this Republic, then good night! But we'll make you legs and bring light to this thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8328	The next item is the report by Mr Herz, Member of Parliament. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8352	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Discussing the Lobbyist Law is still premature now. Let us remain transparent and, as this motion for a resolution says, the “glass party funds”! I don't understand two things from the Greens, Werner Kogler. First: Why a government proposal now? – Once in principle: The understanding of the Greens of Parliamentaryism, self-confidence and self-understanding of Parliament is not entirely appropriate. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Five times out!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Then we shall vote on my request!]] We are in the final with the negotiations! If you ask the government to present something now, a few months have quickly moved into the country, as we know, and then it will be nothing more this day. That's why I don't quite understand this attitude from the timing either. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Is incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ already had 2006 – and that was not the first request at all – in the request of 21. 9. 2006 on the publication of party donations, the obligation of all parties to publish donations from a amount of € 7 000, together with sanctions. Everything in reality has been in the house for many, many years! I then took the initiative about a year and a half ago and set up a working group in which all the Secretary-Generals and the Federal Managing Directors met. [[Abg. Kickl: Since then it has been going back!]] We have achieved something, we have put a lot of things out of the question: over €7 000, that this must be published through Parliament, the Court of Auditors, of course, a ban on fragmentation and circumvention, hard sanctions – all of this is now undisputed. The ÖVP was blocked, you have to say that. This is also to be read... [[Abg. Amon: Go, don't!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is what we have to read in the APA, because there is so to speak a lot of what is historically recognizable. The BZÖ wanted to abolish the chambers on the occasion, the FPÖ was partly in shockstare for “Part of the game” affair and so on. But the fact is: We have put the cornerstones out of dispute. This is also important – as I am again with colleagues Kogler – we cannot allow this to happen: If GRECO, i.e. the international authority of the Council of Europe, refund the report on Austria, then this should finally be successful and decided! But at that time I also made it clear to the gentlemen – it was only gentlemen – of GRECO that a few things must be considered in Austria. We have federalism, a constitutional structure with country autonomy, and we have an association right. And how ordered – ladies and gentlemen, my constant theses! – yesterday, the Vorarlberg parties decided that more than €3,000 of donations must be disclosed. [[Abg. Head: They haven't decided that yet!]] That's how it works in Austria. [[Abg. Head: They haven't decided that yet!]] According to Vorarlberger Landespolitik – Mr Kopf of course knows this very well – donations to parties and country organisations of over €3,000 will have to be disclosed in the future. [[Abg. Head: You will decide!]] This has been developed by the club members of the four Vorarlberg Landtag parties. The National Court of Auditors is under control. Now you see quite clearly what I have been preaching all the time: The Austrian structure and federalism must be taken into account in all these things, which plays a very important and crucial role. The second part of the association law: Let's imagine an example, nicely extrapartial, that we say either the Alpine club, or it should be the nature lovers, I think someone is donating a mountain hut there. That could happen. Please, what does it have to do with a party financing or with party donations? – It can't be that way either. This is also in the green motion for a resolution. However, if the Alpenverein or the nature lovers make this hut available to a party or so to speak, that there are seminars there, then of course it must be named because it is a donation over €7 000! [[Abg. Head: You were also more sensitive on the subject!]] It's that simple. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Well, please, you have to take care of what you're doing. On the one hand, there is a constitutional structure with constitutional autonomy of the countries and on the other hand also an association law. The fact is that the party negotiations are completed and that the negotiations are final here in Parliament. This request will see the light of Parliament, the public in the next few days, and then we will decide on the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8500	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8522	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, the Greens should also be aware that we are already relatively far here. I can connect here – which is rare – directly to my previous speaker: It's actually like we're in the target. I therefore think that this procedure and the setting of this deadline are simply an unnecessary task, Mr Kogler. It is not necessary for us to be asked here. It is also not necessary for us to blame each other. It will be in the interests of all of us to come together as soon as possible – the goal should be to reach a regulation as possible this year – with which we simply meet the European standards. The Council of Europe has already adopted recommendations – and these recommendations are for me and should be the guiding principle for us – in which the Council of Europe adopts State rules on the transparency of party donations, the Prohibition of secret donations and the publication of donations from a certain level. The donation scheme should also apply to all organisations and include control by independent authorities. Adequate sanctions are also provided for here. All this is what we have to negotiate. It has also been mentioned by GRECO. The representatives of GRECO will put their Austrian report on the table in the foreseeable future. Here I am again with what honourable Members have already said: As a National Council and as a federal legislator, of course, we can only promise what we can then comply with ourselves. Of course, we must also ensure that the national legislators in their field – and all the federal states have corresponding party promotion laws and the corresponding promotion of parties – will also implement them at national level in the field of the countries concerned.... [[Abg. May. Kogler: Donation can only be arranged throughout the country!]] Donations are not the problem. Mr Kogler, if we only regulate the donations, then we do not regulate the financing of the parties. I say this from here as one who was nine years of the country's managing director and four years' secretary-general of a party. [[Abg. Grosz: Eben!]] The donations alone, that would be much too narrow to say quite clearly. [[Abg. Grosz:... collection drivers of Klasnic and Krainer!]] Here our goal is not a unilateral concentration on the party donations, but it is about the entire party funding. [[Abg. Grosz: How was Herberstein?]] It doesn't always have to be a hut that you get, it can also be a working home. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We must therefore look at the areas to be considered by us in the context of a comprehensive regulation. We were here... [[Abg. May. Kogler:... there will be nothing, it will only be delayed!]] No, it will not be delayed, Mr Kogler! I can only repeat – Klubobmann Kopf has said this many times publicly – that in the course of this comprehensive transparency package – there have already been other areas addressed, Mr Kogler, for example today the Lobbyist Act, to name but another area – we come to this regulation here too. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a fog law and not a transparency law! The Greens...!]] The Greens have already been involved; this has already been addressed today. It was already relatively far in August of the previous year. There is a protocol of results, which I believe has even been written by the Greens, in which these crucial points have already been taken up, which in turn correspond to what the Council of Europe has in its recommendations. That is why I would like to tell you that it is then also critical from our side, Mr Kogler, what happens with the club promotion. Is club promotion in the greens always used exclusively for clubwork, or is there also funding of the party? Can you rule out that with the greens? [[Calls to the Greens.]] Can the liberals rule out that? - Well, I'm sure not! Here it has already been publicly criticised that there have been direct transfers from the club, cash transfers from the club to the party. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]] Is that what the law provides? Mrs Moser, do we want it to be possible for club funding to be used for party promotion in the future? Or should there be sanctions? - I'm talking about all the parties. [[Abg. Oils: With the ÖVP! Why don't you talk to the ÖVP?]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] The ÖVP is also affected, but especially the Greens – I am telling you – and the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Oils: All right!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The thing is another one. [[Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Mag. Korun.]] In this sense: Let us see that we are coming to a good settlement as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8689	The next item is the speech by Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8716	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the latest since today – but in fact we already know for a long time – there are two chairmen of the “unity of delay of time” when it comes to the law of party financing: One is red, the other is black. What is actually happening is nothing more than that we have been hanging in the waiting loop since then and no one can explain why we are hanging in this waiting loop – except we assume that this period, which is now to be won, is used to make up the areas that are to be designed in the most transparent way possible. This is the reality behind it, and nothing else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, we agree with this request for a deadline, because it says that there is a point in it, which we must have put together in all-party discussions – I say now – as a vehement and joint opposition to the two government parties. But we have that on the table at least once, and that is why it makes sense to continue to put pressure here. In reality, it is not so difficult to find the weak points. Only the shortcomings of the existing party financing law need to be dealt with. There one finds one abuse after another, and he is on and repaired with these points for himself. However, it is about the area in which it becomes really exciting, and that is where the law is to be applied and for whom it is to apply. Mr. Collegiate Herbs is really very, very intense, has skinned the drum, has “reform requirement”, “GRECO” – all possible – screams. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Time is running away. We'd rather act today than tomorrow. - That's how it was. But if I look at the latest developments in the field of the SPÖ, I have a pretty slow suspicion that at that time you might have taken your mouth a little too full and perhaps called something too loud, that now you have to go a little further, and that now your inner-party demise and the shift in weight to Mrs Rudas is also one of the consequences of something too far ahead of you. Mrs Rudas – and I can tell you this – has relatively little interest in the fact that the machinations of SPÖ Vienna around a carpet dealer, agencies and what else is running around can actually be suppressed. Mr Herbs, I believe that you have become a victim of your own courage, and therefore your people are being disassembled internally at the office. That's the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All points within or concerning the application for a time limit are appropriate. But what really happened in the debate, in which it was about what had been done, about the scope? – Of course, the parties should be at the federal level. We were all in agreement, but then the SPÖ came up with the following argument: Federal organizations – no, they have nothing to do with the SPÖ!; the company partners of the SPÖ Vienna – please, this has nothing to do with the SPÖ at all!; the group in the Chamber of Workers – so please, this does not have the minimum to do with the SPÖ!; the SPÖ Group in the union – yes, we do not know them at all, that can never be affected by them! ;The workers' fishing association of the Lord Herbs – all this has nothing to do with the SPÖ at all!And if we want to make the rules governing party financing, all of this must be left out, it must not apply to these things! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] We found the same pattern at the ÖVP. There it was: Even our nine federal states have nothing to do with the ÖVP – although one sometimes believes that these federal states are the ÖVP;the alliances – they have nothing at all to do with the ÖVP, how does one come to the stupid idea that in a financing law one would have to take in the alliances and the financing structure of the alliances?!; the Chamber of Commerce – all this has nothing to do with the ÖVP at all! [[New call for tender Königsberger-Ludwig]] That is why we are now experiencing a standstill in this matter: because we are trying to get behind the scenes, how to do it most effectively, so that it becomes a law that, in particular, makes the appearance of creating transparency, but in reality, serves to cover up as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! What is now present and what is to be implemented with your process is the company to block the front door at a house – because you say we don't let anyone in there anymore – and at the same time lock all the windows and doors in the backyard to organize funding through these other channels. I think there's only one reason why it always says: Please wait! Please wait! Please wait! – Because, in fact, you do not trust what you have packed out to present to the House, because it is likely to be torn up in the air – precisely because of these criticisms.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8812	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8841	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The deadline means that we want to have finally negotiated something and decide what has been discussed for a long, long time and what has been the subject of pre-negotiations. I think it has been promised five times and announced: Now it will be decided, now it will be decided! We always stand for the glass box at the parties. We've put everything on the table ourselves. You can light the green party in all directions at any time, whether at federal or national level, even at the club. That's where the Court of Auditors examines. All of this is perfectly in conformity with the law and is regulated transparently. Wherever we want to create these standards, it's easy for everyone. What's the point? There are some in Sweden, there are in other well-regulated states. Why not do this in Austria as the first step to regain the confidence of the population? Mr Lopatka, you said: Now it'll be soon, now it'll be soon! Mr Herzegovina has also said that it is probably only more than a few days or hours, or something like that. But: We have already – I have let myself be told – on 6 October. May get the promise now – now! ==References====External links== May be subdivided. May has gone into the year that came summer, and now we have autumn. It then starts winter, and I don't know how it will look at Christmas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] This delay – this constant delay! – is the reason why we make the deadline today. We can also continue to discuss content – many colleagues have already contributed content to nuances – but I am primarily concerned that what has been announced, what has been promised, is finally also decided that it is clear that this is from the table so that we can present, as it were, a first package of measures, that we are willing to finally immunise the levels of corruption – I am now very careful – towards flows of money, towards parties, towards policy by means of transparency, simply through transparency. Ladies and gentlemen! There is another area for which we also have promises that have not yet been settled, namely the right of minorities to set up an investigation committee. There we are consoled again and again, that's also an endoscapitel. We do not need to do that, and I do not think we need it. At any time – from our side anyway rather today than tomorrow – we could finally link, decide to enter into force and implement this entire package of “transparency”. That's what it's all about! That is the aim of this deadline proposal! We don't want to move out constantly next time. Please, the last days of humanity are not to occur. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8901	The last item on the agenda is Mr Petzner's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8923	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the preparation for this speech – I was at the party talks at the first two, three rounds of negotiations – I wanted to inform myself in the club and asked the speakers, but no one knew anything. I asked all the parliamentarians, but no one knew whether something had gone on or not. After endless research, I have come to believe that nothing has gone on for a year. I have now also asked colleagues Kogler and also told him: Werner, there's no way that nothing has gone on for a whole year now! But: Nothing has actually gone on! That is the problem, and that raises the question of what you have done in this one year if not negotiated. I've got the suspicion that You have used this one year to quickly add some party donation that is not quite correct to your party accounts, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. That's what you've done in this one year, and that's also the problem, because: The result protocol, already quoted today, has been since 14. ==References== There's everything inside. We negotiated well at the time, there were correct conversations, and there is a complete puncture that you only have to put into a legislative text. You have to have SPÖ and ÖVP ask yourself why you need a year to do so. When I see that both the SPÖ and the ÖVP are sleeping on the hunger cloth and pleite – I do not know what you are doing with all your party money, I only read the newspapers – I suspect that you used this one year to reorganise your party finances in other ways – the ÖVP, for example, with this gentleman who is busy with us now, namely Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly, the secret party cashier of the Austrian People's Party. [[The speaker keeps a magazine up to date.]] Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly will also be very busy with us in the Committee of Inquiry, as will the connections of Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly, among other things to the Lower Austrian country house, to Mr Erwin Pröll – Mr colleague, listen now! – because ÖVP employees, from Kloibmüller to Ulmer, who are now in the focus of the prosecutor's office, are students or disciples of Erwin Pröll; all these are people of the ÖVP Lower Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] This system of ÖVP-Nederösterreich we will still look closely at! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Your excitement only shows that the “Holy Erwin” is already afraid of what will be promoted to the light in this committee of inquiry. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Wheeler]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] And that will be a lot; I can now promise you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. It probably does not come about when Mrs. Internal Minister Mikl-Leanner says – and this must be done directly on the tongue – that the investigations of justice are a shame. The Minister for the Interior refers to the rule of law, the investigations of the judiciary in this matter as a shame! Where are we going? There is already the question: What's Mrs. Mikl's got to hide? Why does she protect, why does she, as a low Austria, cover Mr. Kloibmüller, come out to devil – in the truest sense of the word! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We will clarify all of this exactly, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. I am looking forward to doing this educational work together with Ewald Stadler. Even with the example that Herbert Kicklim has brought with Ali Rahimi, the reconnaissance will become very, very exciting. With great attention I have read that there should also be an advertisement. Ali Rahimi is a very interesting person; I put it that way. There too, it will be necessary to carry out educational work, which is really what these so-called carpet dealers – in my opinion, they are nobody – are doing. Carpet dealers are many, but people who have come to such great wealth through carpet trading are much less. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a question of preventing cases of corruption, of covert acts by means of a new party financing law, by providing for correct operations from home and through a more stringent party financing law. It has been said correctly that it will never be possible to completely exclude criminal offences, but it is nevertheless necessary, important and right to take a step towards greater transparency and control. GRECO has already been mentioned, and its report – so we don't have much time anymore – comes at the end of the year. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, to finally present a draft as agreed, namely a proper draft rather than some summit, but a draft which corresponds to the agreement reached between all the parliamentary parties and contains this point. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] Otherwise we will need even longer, because we will certainly not agree to a toothless party financing law by the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9044	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Call the BZÖ:The statement of Mikl- Leitner...!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Mr Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 945/A(E) by Mr Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on ‘Gläsern Partykassen’, a deadline until 14. ==References== I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:05:24]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-10-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9087	I announce that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted in 1685/A(E) to 1698/A(E). Questions 9443/J to 9456/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 5.06 a.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
