ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e6840	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. As prevented, MEPs are reported Grillitsch, Großruck, Ing. Hofer, Hagen and Dr. Van der Bellen. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e6868	For this meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs Dr. Wolfgang Waldner. The meeting is today transferred from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and to ORF III in full length. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e6906	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and design of the debate on the Federal Finance Act 2012, together with investments. For this meeting, a day-block speaking time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed for today, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131, FPÖ 113, Green 95 and BZÖ 90 minutes. The following Rules of Procedure were also provided for by the political groups: During the television transmission to ORF 2 the breakdowns 01 to 06 are: Upper institutions and breakdown 10: The Federal Chancellor's Office is jointly treated and includes the general debate. Each group has a total speaking time of 38 minutes. It is free for the political groups to see how many speakers they make each. The individual speaking time for the first speaker shall not exceed 12 minutes, that of the other participants in the debate shall not exceed 9 minutes. The call for speakers is based on the principle of counter/pro. After the first round of the political groups, the Federal Chancellor will speak with 12 minutes and in the course of the debate a member of the ÖVP with 12 minutes and another member of the government of SPÖ with 10 minutes. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television period. For the budget deliberations on Thursday, 17. November 2011 is a day-block speaking time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131, FPÖ 113, Green 95 and BZÖ 90 minutes. For the budget debate on Friday, 18. November 2011 is a day block speaking time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 116, FPÖ 100, Green 84 and BZÖ 80 minutes. I would also suggest that the Members' speaking time be limited to 10 minutes each, without being part of each subject area. For the purposes of the procedure agreed by common accord at the Presidential Conference, the debate on the Federal Finance Act 2012 and its investments shall be divided as follows: General debate and Headings 0 and 1: Subdivisions 01 to 06 and 10, then each time: Subdivisions 11, 12, 13, 14 Military Affairs and 14 Sport; After that, heading 2: Subdivisions 20 to 22, then: Subdivision 24; Heading 3 thereafter. Subdivided 30 lessons, then: Subdivision 30 Art and Culture, then: Subdivision 31; Heading 4: subheadings 34 and 41, then each time: Subdivisions 33 and 40, then 25, then 42, then 43; Heading 5 thereafter. Headings 15, 16, 23, 44, 45, 46, 51 and 58 and text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV; then: Final votes. General – actually included in the general debate – can be made in the treatment of heading 0 and 1, subdivisions 1 to 6: Supreme institutions, and subdivision 10: Federal Chancellery. This is also a written statement to the honourable Member. The statements of words shall be made on the individual breakdowns, provided that the debate on them is not summarized. The treatment of subdivisions 14 and 30 is divided into two debates. In any event, the proposed headings will be discussed at the end of the day. The session will then be suspended. Resolutions may be submitted in the case of the respective breakdowns. The second reading vote and the third reading on the Federal Finance Act 2012 together with the investments will take place after the consultation of heading 5 and the text of the Federal Finance Act and the rest of the investments. Following this, the votes on the motions for resolutions will take place in the order in which they are submitted. The time-limit for the members of the government according to § 57 para. 8 GOG is not used, but if the 20 minutes exceed each member of the government responsible for the respective advisory groups, or if the 10 minutes exceed for each State Secretary responsible for the respective advisory groups, the overdue speaking time shall be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. The speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries shall at least be counted on the time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the term of office of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor shall be used for the general debate held under heading 0 and 1, provided that the debate does not exceed the duration of 20 minutes. The National Council shall vote on these proposals. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to these proposals to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[09:10:48]] Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1405, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2012 (Federal Finance Act 2012 – BFG 2012) and Appendices (1510 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7091	Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1405, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesfinanzgesetz 2012 together with investments (1510 d.B.). There was no oral reporting. [[09:11:10]] Heading 0.1 (Law and security) [[09:11:11]] UG 01: Presidential Chancellery UG 02: Federal legislation UG 03: Constitutional Court UG 04: Administrative Court UG 05: Public Prosecutor's Office UG 06: Court of Auditors UG 10: Federal Chancellery
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7167	In accordance with the agreed breakdown, we reach the consultation of heading 0. 1. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. General remarks can also be made in accordance with the agreement. [[Abg. Bucher: To the Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7203	Madam President. Good morning! We are now discussing the next three years, the next three days a mogel budget, in which neither the debt brake nor savings packages are incorporated. [[Abg. Riepl: It's starting well!]] That is why, I believe, it is fair, sensible and serious if we make a referral request. That's what the BZÖ is doing. In accordance with Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure, we want to refer the budget back to the Budget Committee so that all the Federal Government's projects and measures for 2012 can be incorporated into this budget and made a proper budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7241	I have the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure – I shall not vote on the motion for a Rules of Procedure immediately, but only at the end of the debate. [[Calls: Friday! Friday]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – Just don't get irritated! First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. I'll set the clock in 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7281	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Federal Chancellor! Mrs Finanzminister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! In the last few days, we have debated and discussed very intensively the current budget, and in fact we do not know exactly what is worse in the Federal Government, namely, their dishonesty or, on the other hand, the political inability to recognize. The debate on the budget and on public debt clearly shows this. This week we are dealing with a budget of SPÖ and ÖVP, with a re-indebtedness of say and write over €9 billion. And at the same time, because the hat appears to be burning, one goes here and tries to give a verbal sign for the financial markets, so to speak, by putting it into space, what the opposition parties have long called for, which we have also called for from the beginning of the crisis: There is a need for a debt brake, namely to ensure a real expenditure reform in Austria, a purely expenditure-side reform. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need an expenditure-side reform in the field of administration, in the field of health, in the area of subsidy jungles, but above all also in the area of our taxpayers, which are being reduced by you in European Pleite States, but also in the area of banking speculators. Instead of a serious budgetary policy, we are being tricked, teased and fooled by what this stuff holds. It's really absurd if you decide currently this week €9 billion additional government debt, but at the same time €21 billion Austrian taxpayers into a barrel without soil, say to Greece, pumped, €21 billion in liability for bank speculators, where we'll probably pay again interest of over €7 billion. Summa summarum will only cause the Euro-debt package, if it is to be beaten – and that fear of well-known experts – €28 billion in new debt. And what is the Austrian population supposed to do for this?- Oh, my God! We need this money here in the country for education, for our families, for our pensions, for our care cases, for our security investments! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No one understands this anymore when you come out of red and black today and also the last months and years again and say here: We want to be economical. – Just the opposite you live! Especially the ÖVP, which acts as such, also in its verbal explorations, as if it were the saving party of Austria: Yes, please, you have been in government responsibility for 25 years, you have been responsible for the irresponsible record debt we have today! Austria's debt is already € 268 billion! A brainwashing is being performed over and over again, as it is always claimed that the government debt does not amount to € 268 billion, because the outsourced areas of the ÖBB, the ASFINAG, are not added to the municipalities. But this is exactly the dishonesty, because the credit rating agencies add that and the credit rating agencies are looking at exactly what debt has actually been outsourced, but for which, of course, the Republic is in a serious situation. That is, summa summa is about 85 percent of government debt compared to GDP, and of course the hat burns. That's where the hat is burning. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In 2007, we offered by the Freedom Party in the many discussions that have been conducted, also in the Austrian talks, to help when it comes to saving on a sustainable basis in expenditure by making an administrative reform. – You haven’t used it to this day! Five years have passed, and five years you have not been able by this government to finally implement on the expenditure side what President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser has very, very well prepared, very well prepared in a book of the Court of Auditors. There are all the proposals on the table, but you have not been able to implement anything of it, or you have hardly implemented anything of it. This is precisely the immense one, and this is also the reason why we are in this crisis today, not only because of the international monetary and financial crisis, but also because of your responsibility, because of the problems you face. And now the hat burns because it's about triple A. Now the hat burns, now you're afraid you might lose triple A. We liberals have warned from the beginning of the crisis that this can happen. I remember when you called me "fear-maker" or even insulted me as a hetzer. And now exactly all that we have recognized from the beginning of the crisis has been correctly analyzed and where we have also demanded the correct consequences of it. That's exactly what you have to blame: that you're completely on the wrong steamer here. Ladies and gentlemen! If you are talking about debt brakes – and there are also proposals from the liberals, but also the other opposition parties for an administrative and health reform that is necessary to implement – then this sounds very good at first sight. But if you look more closely at the matter, you can see, of course, what's behind it and what you're really planning: You want a blood, sweat and tear budget with tax increases, rather than saving expenditure on the one hand, which is in fact the background because you are not prepared for an administrative reform, as we have seen for five years. Instead of that, you want to encourage the citizens to have further savings and tax increases – and not to invest this money in Austria again, but to continue to flow into EU enforcement packages. From the outset, we have said that the European liability packages are a disaster and are non-contractual. The European Union has clearly acted contrary to the Treaty, and you have played in the direction of the Transfer Union! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, what are there contracts for if you don't stick to them? What is there for an EU directive that states that Maastricht criteria have to be adhered to, which have exactly the same content as you now want to decide to comply with the 60 percent debt brake? And then no European country sticks to it, then everyone breaks the Treaties! And if you insist that they will be broken, just as you have done in recent years, in which the debt curve has significantly increased, then you say: Well, what do you want to do? We had no other choice. That was the way it was. Let's go on! What you're actually planning is to set in motion a load turbo, a slamming machine and a expropriation machine, where you might also need to talk about an economic and social brake. But where you really can save and save, don't put the lever on! Of course, the Austrians cannot understand this anymore. The Austrians want to order a mega-sparing package, but at the same time you will find nothing when our tax money is pumped into a barrel without soil towards the European pleite states, towards the bank speculators. That's your political course, and you're not ready to rethink either. Nor are you prepared to finally implement what the Federal Chancellor promised before the 2008 National Council election, namely to ensure a referendum when fundamental changes to the Treaty take place – and they are taking place now. When, if not now, are changes taking place towards the Transfer Union? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's right now – now! – the decision-making question: Let us continue to pay our tax money in a broken and sick system and thus risk the future of our youth, so that the risk of infection to other European countries is of course very hot – as we see now in the example of Italy, and also towards Spain has not yet been spoken the last word – in order to finally experience this great crash, because one has not acted properly, was not prepared to take the right consequences? On such an alleged debt brake, which is not honest, which is dishonest, one can only say no. If you want an honest debt brake, negotiate with us! Be prepared to take a referendum in Austria, as promised, on the question of the Transfer Union, whether the Austrians want to carry it or not. But then you must also be honest and predetermined that only in the area of expenditure is to be saved and that you should not be back on the floor with new tax increases of the economic engine, which has already been dramatically under way and which you must not continue to stifle. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then we also need to ensure that jobs do not go further, but we need to be aware that we have responsibility in this area. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfair when our tax money flows into all possible European channels, but not into our areas where we need it. As long as Austria is still in the Euro Protection Screen with a single euro, no one has the right to demand that the Austrians be left to live now, if their money does not remain in the country again and is not invested in their future. That's not a debt brake, it's a expropriation machine to be set in motion there! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They try to favour the Austrians and actually act like a pocket thief who distracts his victim so that he can steal the wallet. This makes it easy to get to the point. That's why I'm saying: We are in favour of an honest debt brake, even if you are willing to ensure and negotiate honestly the basis for it. Secondly, it is also important to clarify the question of how the debt brake should look. And the current budget of Mrs Financiers is also hiding. She has shown, both in her budget speech and in the Committee's deliberations, that as Minister of Finance, she does not have the slightest plan. She has shown that she is also a worthy successor to her predecessor, Josef Pröll and Willi Molterer, for it will continue exactly what we have experienced among these finance ministers, namely courage and visionlessness. And your only answer is: new debt, no administrative reform. And the result will be: new taxes, and our money will continue to be pumped into the European Union. These are unsatisfying results, and there will be responsible politicians, we will not go along with the liberals! Such a course will, of course, put the Triple A at serious risk. That's your responsibility, that this is going to change today, and that the experts in this wave – at least today – are in it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The figures are devastating: We have 268 billion € debt, already 10 billion € annual interest rate burden and 85 percent debt ratio to gross domestic product. These are dramatic figures, you can rightly say it burns the hat. It is therefore necessary to use it here. And if by 2015, additional €43 billion will be added and additional €13 billion in liabilities If we are going to be suffocating, then this is an area which is not more dramatic at all. A problem that has hardly been discussed so far is, of course, also the demographic problem. This is a problem that has been obvious for decades, but is hardly addressed by a party. We liberals try this problem again and again and try to raise the sensitivity to it – I then conclude – that we are finally trying to support families too that we are investing in the future of our children, who are our future. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore come to the conclusion. We will of course represent Austrian interests here, and I can only say: God protects Austria from this failed government, which will play our future! [[Oje-Rufe near SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can only hope you wake up and think.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7499	I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that in this first round the speaking time per speaker is up to 12 minutes, so it is decided. Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7523	Madam President. High house! Now is hard times for the opposition, because with the debt brake the opposition in its speeches will now have to say the cover in future when they make claims. [[Vivid cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ]] You can sink half of your program into the circular folder, because until now you have never actually said what it is supposed to cost. - That's the first one. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: All you have to do is put off these prototype templates!]] Second: If you say, Savings!, then you have to say now where you want to save, how you want to save, and you have to submit calculations to what extent. It's the time when you get to the pult, put air pastries on the stage and go back. I can't do that anymore! You have to make yourself now if you really want to face the debt brake honestly, and you have to put this on our table. But the problem of the previous speaker, Klubobmann Strache, is: His true opponent is logic, his true opponent is related thinking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If he thinks at the end of what he says here on a regular basis, almost always with the same words, then he should say, when he thinks that to the end: I want to leave the euro zone; I want to introduce the shilling line! [[Abg. Strache: The Germans and the French are already here...! I'm sure it's coming, Mr. Cap!]] Then he'll have to say that. Then he'll say: I have a very own concept! or return to the exchange economy – I do not know what the true concept is, that is not presented here either – or even in the Stone Age. This is irresponsible and in reality only provokes the debate on the Triple A. But I don't want to spread here anymore. One point is the question: Why does a debt brake have to be made at all? – Incidentally developed by the Social Democratic Minister for Finance Peer Steinbrück in Germany, and in a definition that does not mean a priority, now only save, but that is a mix construction, I say once again. The expenditure side should be taken into account as much as the revenue side. There is a very central issue of justice, because justice is also important for economic development. If people have money in payrolls when people take advantage of transfers they can rightly take advantage of, this is also crucial for growth and employment. And the success story of the European Union – or of parts of the European Union – but Austria is also the question of growth and employment and thus competitiveness in order to create social wealth. It is therefore crucial that you do not make yourself and say: Well, we need to discuss debt brakes in Europe and in Austria, because we have primarily a debt crisis of state budgets. I'll tell you something. We have 60.2 percent of GDP in Austria in 2007, today, 2011, 73.6 percent. [[Abg. I don't think you're right. You forget the outsourced areas!]] - No, I don't forget her, I'm just saying it. In between, the impact of the financial and economic crisis is: Lehman Brothers, bank packages, growth initiatives – we have said we have to see that employment remains secure – anticyclic measures that are the consequences of this crisis. You can't say about the opposition, especially now of the blue opposition: That's all we've got – no matter what it's going to do, anything's going to happen. – This is not a concept, but here you have to see that in the background these effects play a decisive role. If in 1999 the debt in the euro area was 72.8 per cent and then dropped to 66.1 per cent of GDP by 2007, this means that, in reality, government debt has fallen in the euro area, that it has also been deep down in Austria, that we have also fulfilled the Maastricht criteria, but we have said our growth as a decision here in the House for responsibility to our social systems, our economy, our employment: Now we need an active state that is working there and that also takes money into its hands and sees that there is a corresponding security here. That's the decisive thing. Therefore, point one: It is not a sovereign debt crisis, it is a systemic crisis, a crisis of the economic system of the financial markets that has had such an impact. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: And you are not willing to change that!]] When I look at so many articles and comments in the newspapers, I have the impression that there are so-called ideology surfers who now say: Na hello, this is a convenient opportunity now, now we will briefly distribute the social riches differently! Now we will see that the distribution looks different at all – the rich richer, the middle class thin – and so on, we know all that – the state should withdraw. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Class fight!]] In fact, some say that this social state in the European tradition, especially in the Austrian tradition, is destroyed! [[Abg. Strache: They do not relieve the middle class to this day! They have been burdening the middle class since 2006!]] Why are you so nervous now? You always say you represent the little people that you are the social party – you are neither the one nor the other! Now you have to be quite different, your speech should have been quite different today! You should have said that these consequences of the crisis should not be borne by the Austrians, especially the middle class, the small people! I haven't heard this sentence today. The only thing you've ever said for redistribution, Mr. Klubobmann Strache, was: We want to introduce the millionaire tax – but only briefly, otherwise we will not receive any more party donations from the rich. You've said that before, that's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. You're straining the workers, you're cutting them off! Your “social justice” are the banks you serve!]] A little nervousness with you doesn't hurt, you'll get a little more punctual. [[Abg. Strache: The foundation skaters of SPÖ have bunked millions!]] But now we come to a second cause, to the true cause. And again: The debt brake is a very clever concept, a very clever concept. [[Abg. Bucher: At once!]] If we can intervene simply in emergency situations, in crisis situations, this is the true, pure Keynesianism that all have to represent. If They are responsible for social systems if you are responsible for the future of our children, if the money for education is to be there if the health system is to be further guaranteed if the pensions are to be safe, then we need a strong euro, a strong currency, then you have to be operational, then this debt brake has to – and I believe it will – ensure that it is guaranteed together with the countries and communities that all of this is guaranteed. [[Abg. Strache: The money for the children has already been playful, you have sunk it in Greece!]] However, accompanying the introduction of a financial transaction tax, the volume of financial markets, there must be rules on financial markets. There cannot be one simply developing and looking at any financial products, what will happen, and if it goes wrong, “burn” the real economy and the workers. It won't be possible to do it any more. These rules will have to exist! And with regard to the rating agencies: Whether that is the rotation, the liability, whether the rules are that they no longer indicate the tone in the form: The financial markets dictate! or: If you don't adapt, you'll get to feel the culprits of the markets! – Who are the markets? We are politics, we have the primacy of policy to guarantee, we will prescribe the rules to financial markets, we will see that they no longer destroy the real economy – and nobody else! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] Whether this is the discussion already under way with the European Financial Market Supervisory Board, whether these are the measures that are now being discussed against the rating agencies: In any case, the financial transaction tax is still a very important aspect, as are many other measures. [[Abg. Booker: White nonsense, what you're talking about!]] In conclusion: We will be able to measure how we are now holding this debate, even in the next three days. The depressive call from you, Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, does not help at all, but we should see that we are addressing these talks with an optimistic, offensive, but really effective design ability. We need at least one opposition party to achieve this two-thirds majority. You can now prove: Government ability, responsibility, you can prove: Fight that the Triple A remains preserved,You can prove that you want to make a contribution for the future of Austria, the Austrians, our children and for justice. [[Abg. Strache: You have proved that you have failed! You've already proved your failure!]] You can prove that – I hope you are able to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7754	Now Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7775	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Klubobmann Cap did not actually say a lot about the budget. But back to the starting point, the 2012 draft budget, which will be finally decided with ÖVP and SPÖ votes on Friday. From our point of view, this budget has two very significant weaknesses. On the one hand, a savings package that started last year is being continued, starting from the idea of crossing all areas such as the lawn mower, cutting everywhere and setting no priorities. This lawn mower method is particularly dramatic in one area, and this is the whole area of future investment, which is the first priority in the whole field of education. That is the great weakness of this budget. The education sector, which is completely under-represented in this area, is far from enough. This is particularly damaging in the light of the fact that almost 400,000 people have signed a popular educational desire, which they have clearly expressed, the most important thing that can be given to young people who are two million in education. But that's not going to happen with this budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They will probably try to prove the opposite, but the figures in the budget are very clear. Education expenditure is falling in real terms, taking into account inflation, both in the field of school and universities and in the field of research and development expenditure. They really fall if you correct this with inflation. The incitement of the opposite truth will not help you in this question. We will fight until Friday evening for you to open this again, especially for the people who have signed the educational people's desire. This is the crucial weakness of this budget: Standstill in the future areas. – However, everything has been different since Monday. Completely surprising, because the SPÖ was always massively opposed to a debt brake, we now have a new starting point, which is once again aggravating the situation. Why is the education brake such a clever concept? My colleague, Mr Cap, has failed to justify this a little. And I would now like to make the effort to explain again what this debt brake actually means. This means, until 2017, actually saving €10 billion. That means: Every year a savings package in the order of total university financing – but every year! That is, we save away the entire universities of Austria every year, and next year again, and next year again, and that five times in a row. Every year! – Yes, you have recognized this very well: [[Abg. Amon: But go! It's only once!]] It's only once. But you have remained guilty to explain once what savings packages are, what this debt brake really means for people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The scope for future investment, Mr Amon – and you should listen to it more carefully; You're an educational speaker, I think, right now. [[Abg. Amon: That's right!]] She should be particularly interested in this – and this will significantly reduce the scope for future investment. In fact, as far as the economic crisis is concerned, we are still getting away half-smooth, semi-smooth. This debt brake makes it much more difficult. You have not now tried to justify or explain how you imagine these savings packages. This is now a large black box, which comes to the population, and we would like to have some clarity here, especially from the Minister for Finance. Let us look at this in Europe. If all states jointly save in the downturn, no longer take advantage of future investment, then we are certainly in a very deep recession in Europe. And exactly what we all want, namely to continue to open up opportunities in the future areas, is then absolutely impossible. They have so far remained guilty to us of the explanation of how to really do this. The second point concerning this debt brake is: Of course, the debt brake does not solve any problem. We can write everything possible into the Constitution, and we have experienced this in the Austrian Federal Constitution. You can also write in a debt brake. But the real problems are not solved. Disarmament of speculators in the euro market: How is this supposed to happen, how is this actually to be done? The uneven distribution of assets also in Austria: 1 350 billion in real estate and capital. – Unaffected in Austria, is not attacked. And the structural reforms: There is also no proposal in the budget for how to break up this standstill. Structural reforms, federalism reforms, health reform – there is nothing to do with it. As the President of the Court of Auditors is here: I remember that a Commission was set up at the beginning of 2009. I don't know what happened to this one. What has happened to all these proposals? So these problems do not solve the debt brake per se. All of this remains to be done. And the answers to how you want to do this, you, Mrs. Finanzminister, have remained completely guilty to this day until the present hour. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You gave us a hint. They talked about the cost driver of the social sector. Does that mean that this will only be a reduction in social security for you, this debt brake? Do you seriously believe that it will go without taking seriously the big blind spots in the Austrian tax system, namely the great wealth, the great inheritances, without continuing to ask the foundations more to cash? Faith Is that what you're serious about? I believe that this concept can no longer be seriously represented. This shabby, this injustice, this huge blind spot! And this is really unique in Austria when you compare it with other European countries, OECD countries. We donate €4 billion each year in this area. In all other European countries, more taxes are taxed here. What argument do you have that you continue to stand up as a patron in front of these empires, super-rich, if, on the other hand, universities, schools and childcare institutions have massive problems, Mrs Finanzminister? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The expenditure side must, of course, be questioned – and that is, I think, also important, to say again. But that also means that you, as deputy party leader of the ÖVP, must also seriously question the concepts of the ÖVP in this area. This is the first time that the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! You have to break the standstill in this area, otherwise we have no room at all. I would like to sum up once again: The debt brake into the Constitution, if you really want to, well. But that doesn't solve any problem. Finally, try to address serious problems in the euro crisis market! Finally, try seriously to address the uneven distribution of assets! Try seriously to address the structural reforms in Austria, and put them all on the table once! The great black savings package that threatens us will, in particular, continue to burden the future areas massively. We don't want that! We present ourselves to these two million people in Austria who are in education who deserved that Austrian policy takes seriously their concerns. Many have now signed a popular desire, and it must be found in some form in your budget. To ignore this would, in our view, be a waste of the most important areas of the future, the most important responsibility, namely for the children and young people in Austria, where the Greens are now, I believe, the only party to take over an attorneyship for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7855	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the table. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7877	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Volksanwalts and Volksanwalts! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Strache: Mr. Strache, your party has heard from 2000 to 2005 a government that has managed to continue to reduce public debt from 67 percent to 69 percent by 2007. [[Abg. Street: 67 to 69? - Oh you!]] - To reduce to 59. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Mr Strache, you would have had the opportunity to show government at this stage. But what did you do? . You have left this government with timps and trumpets in 2005 because you just did not want to take this saving course and the restructuring course that this government has taken, because you still wanted to make populist politics more responsible instead. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mr Strache, during this legislative period, you have tabled applications to this House, which would raise our budget by €9.7 billion. [[Abg. Strache: You live in a dream world!]] [[Abg. That's a nonsense!]] Where would you get the money? A second proof that you have not only no sense of responsibility, but also no capacity to rule. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And if you still doubt that we should now leave the EU and let the Greeks go, with great damage to the taxpayers of this country, then you will show a third time that you are not aware of the responsibility and lack of government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Who said that? They claim the untruth again!]] But I am no less surprised by the comments made by my colleague, Mr Glavischnig. The Greens have now brought us in front of us, they don't want to save. If we don't save [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] We are in the Federal Railways, Pensions, Hospitals, promotions all over the world, so we are driving a five-star state. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Save it!]] And here you tell us that if you try to bring about efficiency gains, you can't save there or there. Do you know what the alternative to saving is? – If we do what you want, interest rates will increase by €2 to €3 billion in the shortest time, and these funds will only be lacking in the education system and in the health and social system. Is that your way? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: What have you been doing for 25 years? – For 25 years you have been wasting our future! That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the last months have shown one thing: They have the illusion that some have had that states can make unlimited debts, but that's what demolded and questioned. That was not desirable, but unfortunately it happened. I hope that by now everyone has really become clear that when States live on their conditions, nothing else happens but when they do it privately. [[Abg. Strache: Why do you refuse administrative reform for five years?]] It simply happens that the financial markets lose their confidence, that the lenders lose their trust in these debtors, either give them no more money than Greece or Italy, or give them such horrendous interest that they cannot afford it. Austria is not Greece. But Austria too must be very, very careful and do its homework so that we do not run the risk of being classified as a worse debtor than today in the future. And what is the result? – Higher interest payments, and these are the funds we are missing in order to make policy seriously in this country in order to stimulate the economy on the one hand, but on the other hand to ensure social compensation in that country on the other. Is that what you want? - I hope not. [[Abg. Strache: You led us there!]] Ladies and gentlemen, to those who do not want to save, but believe that you can solve the whole with higher taxes: Don't do that! We are in expenditure with the highest of all countries. That means there is the possibility to fix the budget. But we are also the highest in taxation. [[Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection]] And there's no room left. Mr Cap, if you're saying you're running justice, I'm gonna have to say, Yes, then, in view of this high tax and tax rate, I am in favour of first turning to those who finance the state in that country. This means that we also need to ensure fairness of performance in this country, which means lower taxes in the long term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Millionaire tax!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we were on the right track from 2000 to 2007. The financial crisis, which I am giving to Mr Cap, has thrown us far back on this path that we have been on, the reduction of government debt, the reduction of the deficit. However, ladies and gentlemen, we have jointly decided on many measures to deal with the financial crisis. You've decided. With the financial framework 2011 and the following, they have brought us back to the path that has now been taken to reducing the deficit and debt in that country. [[Abg. Booker: This is a nonsense!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the budget we are deciding on Friday follows exactly that path and the financial framework law which we have agreed with each other in this House. And it is a good basis to bring Austria towards a zero deficit and lower indebtedness. But international development in the financial markets also shows us that these measures will not suffice. I am truly grateful to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and to Mr Vice-Chancellor for the fact that they have been able to reach an agreement quickly over the last few days that we should add to this country, to this legislation and to the budgetary law of that country what Switzerland and Germany already have, namely, a debt brake, which is enshrined in the Constitution, that this House, as well as the countries and communities, must have a discipline in the budget, which, unfortunately, has so far not been able to make unlimited debts. [[Abg. Strache: You don't have until now!]] That is, the decision is right, we need this debt brake. The ÖVP has fought massively for this debt brake to come, and now it comes. And that's right and important, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I give right to all those who say that this basic commitment to debt reduction and this constitutional commitment must, of course, now be met with measures, that is, with life. This is the task of the next weeks and months, which we will have to implement together with the Federal Government here at the end of the day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] In other words, we can continue with debt allocations, we can continue to waste time on populist proposals that come here again and again, especially, Mr Strache, to set up issues such as EU payments and similar nonsense. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible!]] We can also continue class struggle by trying to disperse society: Rich against the poor, more deserving against the less deserving. That too can be tried. [[Abg. Strache: You play the Hampelmann for the banks!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the only thing that Austria needs in this situation is that politics as a whole rips itself together and now decides on measures and solutions with the greatest possible majority in this House. This requires the contribution of all of us, whether opposition or government parties. It is now promised to take responsibility for this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. We don't play with you in your responsibilities!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you, too, from the opposition, to negotiate with us in the next few days on how we have known this debt brake to which you all have basically known... [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I guess they're not going to be all in favour of making further debts. [[Abg. Strache: Let us decide on an administrative reform package! But with your responsibility, we will not be there!]] I invite you to negotiate with us in a serious way about how we can quickly anchor this debt brake into the Constitution, because everything else would be irrational!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8195	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8223	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This red-black acting really can't take anyone seriously anymore. They seem to confuse the speaker's mouth with a complaint wall. They constantly come out, red, black party representatives, and actually regret your own inability. You're always sorry about what you're not doing. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Is that not true, Mr Cap and Mr Kopfe's head? If you want to speak, you are constantly complaining about the high debt level. Then you'll talk about responsibility. For 25 years, you have been under constant responsibility on this government bank. Where's your sense of responsibility? Go out here and apologise to the Austrians for the high debt you caused! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That would be a good thing once, that would be Christian, that would once be social of the ÖVP. You'll see how you get out there. That is no longer acceptable in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen. Those who actually have the responsibility in their hands and the opportunity to change something are in constant despair of everything at the speaker's desk and blame the opposition for it. No one understands that anymore! If you continue with the ÖVP, I'll tell you, it'll cost you head and collar. That's the reality! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Then go here and say that we have decided on budgetary law. – Yes, for God’s sake, budgetary law is a technical solution to accounting. That doesn't mean that we're still deciding on all the other horrors that you broke there. It's a nonsense you're spreading! Mr. Cap, Cap, a hopeless patient – so I really have no confidence that you will ever understand the simple mechanisms of the economy – I do not have that – who also sees social justice in such a way that we let the taxpayers in Austria bleed and feed the Marod Banks and Pleite States with the money. [[Abg. Strache: This is the solidarity of the banks!]] This is your social justice. Say it quite openly out here! Yes, that's your social justice. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] They export taxpayers' money and thus import poverty. That's the reality! This is your export economy, your export policy. You understand that by social justice. Good night, Austria, I can only say, Mr Cap. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Both of them have lamented today that the opposition does not make any proposals. And every time we hear from you: Panicmache of opposition and populism, thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Populism!]] Unfortunately, all that we have been talking about in recent years has become reality too. Unfortunately, everything we said to Greece, what we said about the euro-saving packages, what we said about Austria's credit rating, all our predictions, all that we have addressed in recent years, has also become reality. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This Europhoria, which you operate there, is at the expense of our own country. And if you, the chancellor, the Deputy Chancellor, the Minister of Finance, are going to Brussels, the chancellor says always go out into the EU, yes if you then go out into this EU and promise great money, then, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, I think, sometime you have to become aware and realize that this money is not there, this money is not there that you promise there so generously everywhere you believe we Austrians are so financially strong that we can save the whole world. [[Abg. You're crazy!]] Half-South Europe has already promised you money, credited and pledged liability – money that we do not have, ladies and gentlemen, money that our children have to earn first. They glamorise and pledge the future of the next generations. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] And then you regret the state in which we are today, before the financial markets are threatened, that we will have to pay higher interest rates for our loans in the future. Since 2008, you've actually had to be aware that sometime someone comes who's putting invoice on the table and says: This has to be paid once, what you have spent on spending money on saving the banks. It must be clear to you that this day will come once. Now it's time: Now the revenge of your indebtedness policy comes to fruition – and that on the eve of a further economic crisis and further banking crisis, ladies and gentlemen. We are right to ask ourselves in the opposition: How will all these measures be further financed in the future? Where are you going to take the money from? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Then you will run to the ECB and say: Please print us money, please sell our gold, so that we can finance all our measures in some way!? – This, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter of concern to people. That's what's busy with us, too. And if you always accuse us that we are not making any proposals, I have to resist this: We have already made several thousand requests over the last three years, including in the committees, thousands of applications! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's about financing!]] I would like to present it to you, I give it to Mrs Finanzminister, the “Austria-Sparbuch”. [[The speaker presented a brochure to Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] This is the “Austria-Sparbuch” of the BZÖ. There are proposals in there, you can stop, Mrs. Finanzminister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are not only proposals by the BZÖ, but also by the President of the Court of Auditors, who, together with his apparatus, makes many good proposals. As far as the administrative reform is concerned, I must say that we have not developed it on our own, no, the Court of Auditors has calculated with its experts that there are some savings in it. What is happening to all the privatizations: You will experience it if you don't do it yourself, then the EU will require you to make privatisations so that the debt can be reduced – over €23 billion! We are very much in favour of finally privatizing the electricity companies and not forgetting the whole money with loud red managers there. We have no understanding of this! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want a free market with low electricity tariffs. And we're in favour of a tax reform. I am happy, Mrs Finanzminister, that you have finally taken up our proposal for the introduction of a flat tax. You'll see, that's a good model. You already have our brochure. Next point: Health reform. – If you believe that you can clean up the health insurance funds by simply taking away €150 million from the taxpayer and putting it into the health insurance funds, I must tell you: That's not a renovation! They just took money from one bag and put it into the other. You should finally put together the social security institutions, which would be a constructive contribution that would be in the interest of the social security workers of our country. [[Deconstratetive applause with BZÖ]] Now to the pensions. – Finally, we need a general pension scheme for all. What you are doing is not responsible, and I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: The super-pensionists get a juicy pension increase! – Yes, who understands this from the small income recipients in our country or from the youth? They don't understand it anymore! Only 7 percent of young people today believe that they will ever receive a pension. How can you decide, ladies and gentlemen? This is the client policy of red and black! The blacks say: We need to promote the officials, they have to get more money! And the Reds say: We must not forget the pensioners! – All of this is a cocktail that is poison for the future of our country and that will still pose enormous problems! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today’s issue of the newspaper “The Press” reads about what I said yesterday: [[Keeping the same height]] The reform spirit of this federal government – if you have a spirit at all! – is one that is in the final position within the European Union. Of all 17 countries that have been examined, Austria is in the final place. That means the red lantern! There are no reforms in Austria that would be important to bring this country to a successful conclusion. There's nothing to use the debt brake on your own – this little brake that you have developed there, a wheel brake for a Formula 1 car that goes straight into the wall, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The full effect of this debt brake can only be achieved through very concrete measures, with savings measures linked to the modernisation of the state. Only the announcement to install a brake is not sufficient. We see this on the financial markets today: The interest on the loans received by Austria is on the rise – despite this announcement to introduce a debt brake in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the only measure that can save the budget that Austria can sustain is a reasonable tax reform, a tax reduction. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Everything else will miss the goal and the economy will not be able to stimulate. We are therefore saying – and I am talking about the second important measure – that: Rethink your European policy urgently! Think about whether you are able to account for so much money that you will lose Marod Banks and Pleitelands! It is and remains a policy like a barrel without soil. That's the reality! This can be seen from a view of how Greece's debt ratio is developing this year compared with the next year: this year 163 percent debt ratio, next year 200 percent; Ireland: this year 108 percent, next year 117 percent. This is a proof or proof that all these lifeguards, all those rescue operations that you are mistakenly financing, do not use fruit. This money comes only to banks, not to people, not to young people. This does not finance the future, but the past, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] But all this is supposed to be different now: Now we want to introduce a European Stability Mechanism, and now we want to shift responsibility. Suddenly, the Federal Government is in the situation that it says: We can no longer solve the problems we have in Austria, we need the European Union, we need a central government, an economic minister and a finance minister in Brussels who tell us what we have to do in Austria! You no longer trust in government policy itself, so you escape into the idea of installing a central government over the ESM, ladies and gentlemen. That's the reality! They flee from responsibility and sacrifice Austrian sovereignty at the altar in Brussels. We will not allow this, ladies and gentlemen, to happen. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In summary, therefore, it is necessary to say: This budget is and remains a brushwork of the very first kindness and is referred back to the Budget Committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8443	Mr Faymann is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 12 minutes as agreed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8464	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is your twin today?]] [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler) In Baghdad!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's where he belongs anyway!]] Appreciate members of the government! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! People's lawyers! In such discussions, I must always focus briefly on the issue of seriality. This is where the colleague Bucher comes out with the newspaper “The Press” and says – and you know that I consider many proposals he makes here to be serious; but not all, and I would like to say one example here now – that Austria is the last one in the reforms. In fact, there is a list of 17 places here in the “Press” and there is 17. Set up Austria. [[the speaker keeps an issue of the “press” up to date]] That's right! But you know who's on 16. Is there a place? – Germany! And do you know who's in the front? – Greece is the winner number 2! So what does this table say? And I'm asking you: Do you want to be like Greece? This is in second place. This says that those who have implemented structural reforms in the past, such as Germany – yes, do you want to dispute that in Germany, as a European comparison, interest payments are currently as low as never before? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] It's quite clearly in Euro-Zone number 1 and it's on place 16. [[pointing to the ‘press’]] So your argument can't vote, but it must be said that many of these states have made structural reforms in their countries in the past, such as Germany and Austria, and others, especially many, such as Greece, which is in second place. That's exactly what you've told us when reading this table! [[pointing to the ‘press’]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Riepl: You also need to be able to read paper!]] Because Europe's policy has also been addressed here: In fact, the euro zone together has about €8 trillion in debt. According to the European Commission, 2 trillion euros have been incurred since the financial and economic crisis. So 2 trillion € can be allocated to what has happened to countermeasures or less revenue since the financial market and economic crisis. The remaining €6 trillion show, in each country, different distributions, but overall, that the level of debt in the euro zone is too high. So there are two truths: The financial market crisis has brought us an additional significant problem, but the total debt at that time was €6 trillion, if you calculate the two, already so high that they just caused such an unjust storm – and the financial products and speculations really had nothing to do with justice – which many countries could no longer handle. To get rid of the 8 trillion euros of debt in the euro area, we agreed – not only in the euro area, but also in the euro area, but also in the context of the European Union – to commit ourselves to the goal of approaching us with 60 percent total debt. This has almost failed in the past – except for Luxembourg. Even Germany, the unique European champion in export and other economic data, has not managed to get closer to this self-imposed goal and to achieve it. Therefore, with our agreement, the Euro Summit has rightly stated that this objective needs a higher liability once as a framework condition. That doesn't mean anything about the question of how to achieve it. I would like to give every speaker the floor, who says that it does not say anything about what revenue, what expenditure, what savings you can make from what reforms you can achieve. But, of course, the question is to be resolved: How to reach this framework? But let me say to this higher commitment to approaching the 60 percent target that Germany believes that from today's point of view this can be achieved in 2020/2021. And if we were to introduce the debt brake according to the German pattern – essentially the German debt brake – which we would like to negotiate with you and where we would like to introduce the constitutional majority, it would go in the same direction. At the Euro Summit, after previous discussions in the government, we have agreed to or have given our support to a higher level of liability. This higher liability is due to ‘sixpack’ and other measures that reflect on competitiveness and lower indebtedness. However, this higher liability is also due to a debt brake to be anchored in the constitution of the euro area countries. It would be best, of course, if this were the case for all 27 countries with a single currency, because they are even more interconnected and interdependent. So it would be important that this higher liability in the euro zone would be created, namely that the debt brake would be in the respective constitution of the countries. [[Abg. Straw: The European Constitution is breaking – and now we want to be credible!]] If you say, We demand more discipline from others that they make such a decision!, then I would ask you to participate that we do so in Austria, and not only give great speeches to others, but that you participate that we also introduce a debt brake in Austria. That is also a question of propriety. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Breach: Why did you not comply with the EU treaties?]] It is not only a question of making big accusations about who does not stick to it, but also about implementing this rule in their own country. That is why I am looking for you This was the Maastricht criteria, Mr Strache. [[Abg. Strache: It was the Maastricht criteria that you did not comply with!]] [[Abg. Street: The Maastricht criteria you broke!]] That was the goal of Germany and other countries themselves several times – as we do! – have not been in the past. [[Abg. May. Stefan: That's no reason!]] They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We want to create a higher level of commitment to keep that up! There were also discussions as to whether one day will not even need changes to the Treaty in order to increase this liability even further. This is a consistent step! We do not want to give speeches here, like the Greeks and the Italians, because we know everything best, but we also want to keep it in Austria like Germany. Germany has a debt brake. The other countries of the euro zone have or will install them – and we in Austria too! This is part of a decent and honest debate on the euro area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore appeal to you, like the bank package, where there was a unanimous decision and, like the financial transaction tax, where we have reached a unanimous decision, to ensure that Austria plays a uniform role in the external impact. This is not about party politics, it is about red-and-white red, and it is about whether the framework conditions in Austria are correct and also tangible in the euro zone and are perceived as such, or whether we only demand that we draw borders, but then do not have the courage to implement them in our own country. To this end, I would ask you to conduct the negotiations seriously so that we can also install them together with you in our Constitution – best with all the parties. However, I would just like to point out on a day when it is observed how the spreads to Germany develop, how the interest rate level for 10-year-old bonds or even for bonds that are recorded, that Germany is now in an absolute position number one in Europe and in the euro zone, because Germany benefits greatly from the fact that, if the others become very poor or worse, even more people on the market buy German bonds. That is, in fact, interest rates have also fallen dramatically in the middle of this Euro discussion for Germany. But we too spent less time in this year than we had in the budget, because we also expected an average of 4 percent and were below it. However, we have not benefited because we are doing so well – even Germany, which is particularly good, has not benefited because the euro area is now so stable and because we have already solved everything – but it is an effect of the market that results from the fact that others are worse and that it is therefore placed on the very few fronts with more security. In fact, we are developing away in the base points of Germany, in fact, despite lower interest rates than we had in the past for 10-year-old bonds, we are developing today. Therefore, the question must be asked – and we are in fifth place of 17 Euro countries –: What efforts can we make to get back in the direction of the first and not in the sixth or seventh? There is the honest answer that we will achieve this only through reforms, through additional savings measures, but also through the measure of debt brakes. We are responsible for the fact that in future, not because of higher interest rates for our government bonds, we will spend the taxpayers' money for debt repayment, but for higher employment and more education in our own country. This is also a reason for the debt brake. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not want to say that there are various measures to achieve objectives. One is the framework I have just talked about, the other, of course – including at European level – is reinforced regulations on financial markets and game rules that prevent speculation, i.e. measures that show us that we should learn from the crisis. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] - Yeah, we're sometimes too slow. We have Austrians, for example, in the financial transaction tax, which is to be both a regulatory instrument and an additional revenue, and which we therefore strongly represent, better proposals than can be achieved from the speed in the European Union's decision-making process. So it's not about debt brakes or financial market rules, it's not about debt brakes or growth criteria, it's about having clear rules and reducing debt and yet having better regulated financial markets. We need a ‘good as well’. And I would ask you to take part in this discussion. This is an essential for the future of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8687	I would draw attention to the fact that the maximum speaking time by 1 p.m. for all the speakers who are now following is 9 minutes – despite all the voluntary speaking time limit. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How does this fit together? No one understands that!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8725	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The present budget, in particular, continues the development – completely right, as Mr Glawischnig said – by Loipersdorf, by the savings programme that was started last year. However, if we discuss debt, we should also look at the development of debt in Austria and debt over the last 15/16 years. In the mid-1990s, Austria consistently reduced debt from almost 70 percent to around 60 percent until the crisis broke out. The outbreak of the crisis has greatly increased indebtedness in Austria – increased by bank packages, by business packages, by tax reform, by measures because we had to finance more unemployment and because we had significantly lower tax revenues. Yes, debt has increased dramatically, but not as a cause of the crisis, but as a result of the crisis. The problem of significantly higher public debt is not the cause, but the effect of the crisis, and that is very, very essential if we are to draw the right conclusions from the crisis and from the present situation. [[Abg. Strache: Now the debt is the crisis!]] If we look at the cause of the economic and financial crisis, we can say: This is completely undisputed in science, and that is why one should make knowledge of science into a political perspective. The causes of the crisis can be seen as three main points: the three ‘U’. Firstly, the unregulated markets. An essential reason for the crisis is unregulated markets. The second is the imbalances in individual economies; that is, States that export a lot, and states that import a lot and finance via loans, especially through private loans. And the third – also one of the main causes – is the imbalance between wealth and income in the individual countries. This is an essential reason that has led us into this economic crisis at all. That is why it is essential to combat these causes, and you can be sure that the Social Democrats will continue to work consistently to ensure that we have better and more stringent regulation of financial markets, for example, that we want a financial transaction tax, that we continue to work to reduce imbalances between individual economies. And yes, you can also be sure that we will continue to work to reduce taxes and taxes on work and that taxes on wealth and capital will be increased in return, because this is very important, also in response to the economic crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We all know that Austria has so far come much better through this crisis than most other countries of the European Union. Not only do we have the lowest unemployment, but it is also – and you can see this clearly from the figure in front of me on the speaker's desk – that debt in the other countries of the euro area has increased significantly more than in Austria. The increase is more dynamic and also much higher than in Austria. [[Abg. Vilimsky: What about the Sweden?]] But this is, I say now, nothing bad, because we all in politics have the claim that we are doing better than our neighbours and that we are more intelligent and reasonable in this crisis. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Like Switzerland, isn't it?]] We will certainly go this way to get the debt under control and get back to the 60 percent in the foreseeable future. We have also proved that we can go this way, from 1995 to the outbreak of the crisis. That means we know we can go him, and we'll go him, but the question is how we want to go. And it is important that we have a reasonable set of measures, both revenue-based and expenditure-side measures, each of which must meet a number of criteria. First of all, you have to look at yourself: What does this measure mean for consumption, investment and thus for growth? And that. Secondly, we must ensure that every single measure for employment, for jobs in that country. Because only measures that do not stifle the economy and do not provide for less, but for more employment, will lead us successfully out of the crisis. We see very clearly: There are a number of states that are increasingly “saving themselves ” into this crisis. We must not go this way, but we must continue to follow the successful path we have taken so far. It is necessary to “reveal” one’s own investment, to “get out of the crisis” and out of debt, and not to“ save ” himself ever deeper. That would certainly be the wrong way. As a simple example of what investment means, I bring about the restructuring of the social state: less cash benefits, less tax benefits, fewer transfers and more benefits in kind. An example of what this can mean – it is not agreed and simply to be understood as an example – is that if we reduce or delete the tax deductibility of childcare facilities, we save part of this money and use it for deficit reduction and use the other part to create childcare facilities. [[Call the FPÖ: ‘Very’ family friendly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: I’m “spirited”!]] [[Abg. Strache: Save the children first!]] Then that means that not a few have some of tax advantages, but all that children have, that there are more and better kindergartens and that there is more employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's something we need, and we'll go this way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8855	Mr Kickl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8876	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If one were to take seriously what has now been said by the Federal Chancellor and the representatives of the government parties on the subject of reform and debt reduction, there would be only a logical consequence: This accumulated accumulation of inability here behind me has fast to clear the way, to step back and to ensure that in Austria the way is free for what is necessary. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] For you, ladies and gentlemen, are pathological red-black debtors and pathological repudiators and nothing else! The budget we are discussing is also a striking proof of this, ladies and gentlemen. What is this budget? – This budget is a declaration of bankruptcy in terms of reformability. This budget is a declaration of bankruptcy in terms of future capacity and this budget is a total declaration of bankruptcy in terms of state-political responsibility – which is particularly difficult. A declaration of bankruptcy of these red and black propagandas behind me, which I think could best be described as a caricature of a federal government, as we would need them in times like those in which we are in a mess. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is even a piece of art to present a budget that has already exceeded its expiry date before the decision has been taken. This has not been the case with you, ladies and gentlemen. This is really unique, and I think you are on top of it, setting an international benchmark, a benchmark for how you don't deal with this, if you want to be taken quite seriously. [[Abg. Bucher: This didn't even make the pröll!]] It is bad for a country like Austria, if it is to be found in the midst of a crisis despite the diligence of its own population. It's a bad situation. But this situation is going to be dramatic, ladies and gentlemen, if there is still a need to get us small-scale, impotent, fearful and dishonest people out of this mess. Then the situation will be dramatic! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are in this very situation. You would not only have to get us out of this mess, but at least you would have to ensure that the damage to the Austrian state, to the Austrian population, does not increase even more. And I say to you that you are only in a position to do nothing about this agenda. That's really what it looks like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] The current budget is another proof of how it behaves. If you, ladies and gentlemen, talk so much about a brake these days, I would recommend a lying brake to you as the very first. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That would be the most important brake you would have to introduce. There you don't need to be ashamed of a two-thirds majority, where you then assume that you get a majority for something where no man knows how you imagine it. This is your access to things: first decide something and then think about it. This lie brake would have the advantage that you don't need a two-thirds majority. They just needed to take their own nose, Mr. Federal Chancellor. The matter would be as simple as that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We're in the situation today, saying: If one only gets a gray hair for every lie – apologies – for every untruth and for every broken promise, then one would soon have a hairstyle model cap and model Faymann. Just so you know yourself, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: Mr Colleague, this is already happening with you!]] Considering the question of how this budget has come about, what the structures have been, we discover some interesting principles. And these principles could be summarized as Faymann/Fekter-Dokstrin for the disinformation of their own population. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I think you, Mr Amon, are next on the record. It's better with you to keep your mouth shut, otherwise sit down. You may not be here any more on Friday when it comes to the decision-making process. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So a Faymann/Fekter doctrine on the disinformation of their own population. You can then find the following sentences: Make every EU insanity from Brussels critically. Work on the dissolution of Austrian sovereignty and do not blunder you to praise the economic ruin and the political elimination of your home country as a contribution to the salvation of Europe! – This is such a part of this Faymann/Fekter doctrine on the disinformation of their own population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There we are now at the so-called shield, which is in fact a lower plate. And here we are at this debt union, hidden behind the harmless accelerator “ESM”, ladies and gentlemen. Both of these are things that you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, are almost absoluting as an alternative anti-allergic. And both of them are things that you have, for one part, been whipping in against the will and behind the back of your own people – with the help of your voting marionettes – and, on the other hand, with the help of the so-called free Members of your political groups who have obviously made it a principle to act only against the interests of their own people. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised that the credibility of Mr Bundeskanzler – now he has gone out – has now achieved what is termed "rasch-status" in the financial markets. [[Abg. Strache: He's fleeing, Mr. Faymann!]] What is, so to speak, the Ramsch status in the Ratings is also his status in the trust index of the Austrian population. And just as there is a failure of payment there, there is an absolute failure of confidence in Mr Faymann. You have to break things up on the tongue and look what we're dealing with here at this ESM. Once we have to break this up into a few parts, we have to take it apart to see what dimension the reprehensibleness of the process of the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government has at all achieved. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen, that unconditional and irrevocable accession and no chance of withdrawing any payments? – In fact, there is no such contract, that is unscrupulous! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as by Mr Tadler and Mr Ing. Lugar.]] A change to the 700-billion hold package is possible at any time. – As you have done so far, a change can only mean an increase. And if you increase this liability framework, we also know why you want to introduce this debt brake instrument as quickly as possible, you want the Austrian population, the Objective 1 area of your looting action, the pensioners, the families, the caregivers to continue looting in order to get the money you want to pump into Europe, Italy, Greece and perhaps Spain. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] This is the meaning and purpose of your so-called debt brake, as you have presented it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the ESM cannot be sued by court either. I can't do that either. He is therefore above the law – your construction! And the ladies and gentlemen who do this are immune. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are moving forward here is the self-absorbing of Parliament, that is the task of our sovereignty, and that is the expropriation of our own people! For this reason, Mr Bundeskanzler, not only are we liberals, but the Austrian people are also expressing their distrust to you. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] I shall therefore now make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9077	Mr Kickl, for the use and accusation of the word 'debt-debt', I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Strache: "Debunding" is a positive thing!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9160	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9184	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! The crucial question contained in this budget is: How can economic growth be stimulated in such a way that growth, growth and growth are possible? Ladies and gentlemen! Fortunately, according to media reports, the economic companies in Austria are more optimistic than some economic researchers. That's positive, because that's where practice speaks, and we know that our economic researchers are anyway the superpessimists. Ladies and gentlemen! Economics is also a matter of mood – that is undisputed. If I trust myself as a business contractor, I will invest. If bad talk is constantly done, caution will be exercised. The second question and one essential factor is the amount of interest to be paid for public debt. In the last weeks, days and perhaps even hours – even that is undisputed – the spreads have gone up decisively. 1.81 is the difference with Germany today. Therefore, there is a clear signal from the government to the financial markets that the debt brake is finally being removed and structural reforms are needed. Mr Bucher has shown excellently the strengths and weaknesses of the countries in the reform. [[The speaker shows a newspaper article.]] That was remarkable, but he forgot the second column, as already stated by Mr Bundeskanzler. With regard to strength or health of the economy, Austria is behind, Germany in third place. The last country in economic recovery is the one that ranks second in the reforms. I do not want to be in front of the reforms with Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy and so on, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that the second column is much more important to me about: [[Abg. Grosz: You do not want reforms?- Oh, my God!]] How strong is Austria's economy? How excellent are Austria's finances and budgets? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: He wants functions, but no reforms!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The euro is constantly being questioned – this is also remarkable! At the introduction, the euro has recorded on the dollar 1: 1.18. 1,18! Then he dropped to just over 0.80, and it was quite right that the great pity. Then he rose to just under 1,60, as there was the great lamentation of the export industry because exports became extremely difficult. How difficult it is with a very strong currency can be seen, for example, at the Swiss franc. Ask colleague Anna Franz, she will tell you how many Swiss come to Vorarlberg now and also in recent months – there will be more and more – and shop there, spend vacation there and thank God for our trades. This is an advantage for us, for the Swiss economy a disadvantage, but so it is in the field of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! To ensure stable finances for a secure future, not only the government is responsible, but that is also the responsibility of the opposition. This is all our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. It is important to take structural measures to implement reforms to ensure this triple A rating. In order to improve the state budget and the budget, measures are needed, which is undisputed, including debureaucratisation. I bring you a very funny example of the Austrian “debureaucratisation” – between quotation marks. I've got a culprit here. [[the speaker shows a document]] There is a community, every municipality in Austria, forced by the Animal Protection Act: Subject: canary bird; Found date, place of discovery, gender, appearance, age, all this must be filled out and reported to the following places: the municipal office, the police inspection, the department in the office of the state government, the animal shelter in Wels and so on. [[Abg. Strache: Which EIA politician did this introduce?]] [[Abg. Grosz: What do you need to fill out if ÖVP politicians?]] [[Further call-ins]] This is to be reported within four weeks, whether it is a canary bird, a small kitten or a dog or something else. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is Austrian “debureaucratisation”. [[Abg. Kickl: Who made this happen?]] That's where we have our hands full to change something. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You can not only prescribe something for the communities – the debt brake is right, not a question at all – but also have to do something in the tasks. It is not only possible to assign tasks, to impose additional burdens on the communities, and then to leave the communities alone. That's where we need action ourselves. As the question of justice is repeatedly addressed: Yes, the question of justice is to ask, but it should also be said, because here basic tax, inheritance tax and other things are demanded vehemently: In the sense of justice, one should also know that income has risen significantly higher than agricultural production prices. And I warn against taxing land and land massively, because that would be a substance tax and the wrong way.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9320	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9341	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! The Federal Chancellor, who is now no longer here, has given an opinion on the development of the budget for the next few years – that is why the debate is probably about the 2012 budget and not so much about the 2012 budget, because if we were to look at the 2012 budget among the outpourings that the Federal Government had just called before the decision was made, we would have to throw it away anyway. I do not see the situation as dramatic as it claims the Federal Government, so I am ready to discuss it. You'd have to take it back and present something new. They are inconsistency in a way that seeks the same. But what should I make many accusations to the club when the Federal Chancellor boldly progresses?- Oh, my God! It was a total panic attack, otherwise it could not be described. Panikattacke, therefore, because we, the Greens, believe that Austria – and it is not so stupid if the opposition is allowed to name it in the meantime – is not so bad in some areas, because we have no debt brakes and have mastered the years 2008 and 2009. If we had a debt brake, it would have gone wrong anyway. But there is no reason for such panic attacks to look at the fundamental economic data of Austria. Nevertheless, on Monday evening, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Mr. Bundeskanzler went to the "ZIB2" studio to get a wretched appearance from the ORF to explain the following – and now I stay with the Federal Chancellor. It was about the debate whether he wanted to finally implement his tax-justice philosophy on the occasion of the so-called debt brake. Only for memory of primary school mathematics: Debts are aggregated deficits over the years. If you want to get down there, you will either need a relatively good and strong economic growth or, above all, – and there's no way of doing that – just have to take care of the bill: Income minus expenditure; and if expenditure is greater, the deficits will be generated. - Okay, so I can do something about the expenditure and the revenue. That's so simple. This is the real debate to be held. They will no longer be able to take us into duty with this debt brake vector, because we will only talk about how this deficit reduction – for which we are indeed – should come about. And there's an expenditure page and a revenue page. The revenue side is completely foreign to the ÖVP, but now obviously also to the Federal Chancellor. He is directed by editor Tarek Leitner asked: “They were at least not a progressive advocate” – that is, this debt brake – “and always said what matters to you is a rich tax or a millionaire tax, as you called it.” – So you from the SPÖ. – “Did you get that in return for the ÖVP?” Faymann: “One cannot be called with the other in the same breath. If we come down from the debt to win the margin, make the decisions in the country – because what does it have to do if you pay “more interest?, and so on and so on. – So a complete swerf, but first of all: ‘One cannot be called with the other in the same breath.’ Faymann is not the subject of folk school mathematics! The reduction of debt obviously does not go beyond the revenue side. – This is the text of the ÖVP, that was the problem. I don't assume Faymann's really so stupid, but he's not good enough. He continues to talk, he doesn't stop at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scheibner.]] He clearly feels – either by the rating agencies or by the ÖVP; who knows what's worse – put himself in the tight. Faymann Werner: “Can’t be linked ” – literally! Read it! This is always available in text version within a few hours. “Can’t be linked because one has nothing to do with the other.” – That’s now the SPÖ’s establishment, after you’ve spent years with your poster campaigns, with your advertising campaign – some pay yourself, and where you have the donations, don’t say; some pay anyway, because you don’t reveal it – your previous attitude has drawn to justice. [[Abg. Amon: That's reasonable!]] You haven't changed since yesterday, we've debated it here yesterday. “One has nothing to do with the other” – this is a capitulation statement! That is on the one hand, if we are already on the side, the total increase of the population, because if it is precisely appropriate, if it is precisely part of your government responsibility, you do not ask the question of tax justice, do not ask the question of redistribution. He doesn't even ask the question, let alone that he wants to answer it! But order opinion polls where the term “millionaire tax” is asked as the best, which tells and believes a little bit, so it is done until the next election campaign! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's your list. And, of course, the ÖVP is playing with it, because it speaks of performance-righteousness and wants to know nothing about it, because it claims that you would only attack the middle class. All of this is included in any so-called working group – not even in a real Commission – of the Federal Government. And because of the survey in the Committee on Budgets, it has become perfectly clear: This working group is for nothing, it should not do anything. There only SPÖ can say that we are discussing our proposals, and the ÖVP, we are discussing our proposals. That's not a government! In fact, you are already retiring today and not only tomorrow. Today, because You don't want to! Whether you could, is another question, but you don't want to! You just want to pretend! – And you are quite satisfied by the ÖVP because in this way the ÖVP can continue to play its role as a representative of the rich, the super-rich, the millions of heirs and tax collectors in the field of foundations – which is unique in Europe at all. And then you're talking about performance justice! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's the list! And we will not only have this budget debate, but also the discussions about what you have now announced will be suspended overnight – you will certainly need a two-thirds majority for this so-called debt brake – where it is really a matter of talking about revenue and expenditure and what we are doing where – that would be the right and serious debate – we will use these discussions, which you have to conduct anyway, to answer, on the one hand, the real question of fiscal justice and also to put them into a concept. What if it is not possible to achieve the volume of savings? If we use the year 2012, that is, the budget we are negotiating now, it's 8 billion, we're counting on the present – maybe it's a little less later if we don't strangle economic growth. However, the measures that threaten it are strangled because, under your active co-sleep, it is simply not willing to do something there – in the case of taxes – where the economy is not damaged and where a huge gap of justice could be closed. Do you know what 8 billion euros in savings demand for 8 million people means? – This bill even brings together the Faymann: 1 000 € per head and AustrianIn! With a four-person budget, the amount is €4,000 a year. And now you want to tell us that it doesn't matter if it hits a poor family or a millionaire family? €4,000 there are little to nothing – €4,000 there are the definitive poverty for many who now live on the poverty line! - If you don't want to look at it and don't want to grab it, you'll fail. But then you don't need to come back in the election campaign so that you want to bring something on justice – just like already the whole year 2010 and this year a little bit later. That's more than a nail sample, that's what matters now. Faymann has agreed to the EU Council for something similar to a debt brake. Should be! The formulation there is not so bad. This is about structurally arranged households. They also have to go down from the deficit, that is exactly our opinion. The question is just how. There are savings measures – we have listed them yesterday, we will continue to list them today and tomorrow – but there are also – that goes also to the ÖVP – the revenue side: where the biggest gap in Austria is the justice gap. It must be closed! Either you do this or you don't get a two-thirds majority here! Then you can sit back under the table in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9410	Next, Mr. Dr. Kräuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9431	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I will first clean up with a legend and then with a few rather grotesque theses of my predecessor, Mr Kogler. First of all, to legend formation, which some people use strategic and quite consciously, by some people thoughtlessly. It's about the thesis: We have lived over our conditions, and that is the cause of the crisis. – I was particularly noticed on 28 October. May in the “standard” a statement of Klubobmann’s head, who at all meant that the speculators were not guilty, but all of us, because we had lived on our relations, were guilty of guilt. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: Who is this now, “we all ”? Is that the cop? Is that the nurse? Are these small traders? Is it the small farmers who are responsible for the crisis because they are supposed to have lived over their conditions? – Yes, can you say that so indifferently? – The workers who are threatened with short-term work are responsible? The pensioners? The people concerned as a result of the economic and financial crisis of termination? – Or, ladies and gentlemen, are they responsible speculators, in fact economic criminals? Is it the unbridled financial markets? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] In part, a economic misbehavior of governments or the mistake of neoliberalism? Why is this legend, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, Mr Ikrath, really so fatal and harmful? – Because it actually protects the financial sharks and speculators sitting in the penthouses, flying around in their private aircraft and still juggling with billions. They laugh at the useful idiots around the world, ladies and gentlemen! This reversing of debt is conscious of some, some unconscious, and of course all the consequences, the regulation of financial markets and, ultimately, the common objective of a financial transaction tax are made more difficult. Therefore, the appeal “More Care!” to those who make this thoughtless and unconscious, but also the announcement of bitter opposition to social democracy towards those who make up such legends. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What are the objectives of the SPÖ? – Of course stability, savings measures, consolidation of the budgets both in the federal and in the countries and in the municipalities! This is, of course, because it ultimately supports freedom of choice, political ability and independence. There are, of course, various ideas and proposals for this. I only use the economic research institute, which, for example, calculates that some 15 billion subsidies can easily be saved 1 billion, without in any way disrupting the economic cycle or causing any negative effects on the labour market. Or the model of the Social Minister as regards early pensions, or the health reforms proposed by the Minister of Health. Or quite specifically, colleague – and I strongly recommend this to the Federal State of Carinthia – how it does the Styria, with a truly consistent programme in terms of savings and administrative reform. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is only the one side of the medal from the point of view of SPÖ, of course, Mr Kogler, also from the point of view of the Federal Chancellor and chairmen. The second is fair and fair revenue – a millionaire tax, of course. It is interesting that even those concerned say: Tax us properly! They have long been interested in being fairly taxed, who want to live in social peace, in a society where the balance is kept. [[Abg. Amon: Send it to me!]] – There is still a need for persuasion as far as the EIA is concerned when I hear Mr Amon's call. [[Abg. Amon: Well, put it in front of you!]] However, on the basis – I would like to say that to you, Mr Amon – to the mayors, to the ÖVP mayors, to the municipalities, to the individual state politicians, there is already a very clear opinion. [[Abg. Amon: Well, introduce the model!]] For example, dedication gains, colleague Auer: € 2.7 billion in profits are tax free of tax per year. At last you have to do something and at least once tax profits over € 1 million accordingly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Can you include the opposition? – Mr Bucher's only condition. That can be helpful. He's a co-causer of hypo problems. [[Abg. Bucher: What do I have to do with the hypo? Mr. Col., what do I have to do with the hypo? – You trust to say that only because you are immune!]] And one thing is shocking, Mr Bucher: if you say today that the SPÖ always says you should not forget about the pensioners, and you say that the poison is for society. - Aren't you ashamed of yourself? Do you have no respect for the older generation at all? That's a terrible thing! Come on. You're out and you're apologizing for this monsterity! What Do You Believe Are you? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or the FPÖ, which delivers a smooth blamage here, as can be read in the “Kurier” today: “Strache is out of the game”, “Blue makes itself a salmon number”. – Mr Kickl, you can read it. Make your request with distrust You're more than ridiculous! But this 2012 budget also leads us to a knowledge of the accompanied forces, ladies and gentlemen, which we have in our country, such as the functioning social partnership – see, for example, the negotiations in the metal industry – but also how we deal with the older generation: with thought, respect and sense of responsibility. There you can really congratulate everyone – starting from the Minister of Social Affairs of Hundstorfer to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Vice chancellors and senior representatives – on the most heartfelt. What does the opposition have to do with that? – Plumpe accusations, missing concepts, incompetence of Mr. Strache, disrespect for Mr. Bucher and ridiculousness of Kickl.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9560	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9582	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If one has listened to the previous speaker, the question arises: Why are we discussing? It's all right, it's all great! This federal government is capable of action, which has so many good ideas. So many good decisions we make here, and it will work forward-looking. This opposition cannot be used. What are we talking about? It's wonderful! I'm just thinking: Something we and the population must have missed in the last four years. – This perception, which the Lord had herbs, must have been different somewhere else, but certainly not here in the High House and not here in Austria, because – and this has already been manifested in your speech, Mr Herbe – we have a problem: that we have a federal government with two parties that neither can nor do want one another. That's the problem! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We hear all the time, even here today, what the SPÖ wants and what SPÖ ministers and the SPÖ Chancellors want – and on the other hand, we hear what the ÖVP ministers want and the ÖVP vice chancellor, who unfortunately is not here today. Just a little comment: Travel abroad are good and important and right for a foreign minister, but the budget debate, which I believe is very important this year and which has been known for months, might have been quite exciting. [[Abg. Bucher: He's blackmailing!]] This would have been important for you, as a member of the ÖVP, so that you are also represented by your party leader. [[Abg. Bucher: Still party boss!]] But I'll leave that with you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's not party leader anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem: You say and the Federal Chancellor says that we need a fair, decent and honest discussion. – Then start with it! Then: Finally, Mr Cap, in your speech, to blame the opposition here, that they have no ideas to invite them to do so: Please work with us!, and present a budget here today, of which everyone knows that the figures for 2012 are no longer right and are not willing to put on the table even a measure for this debt brake today and to discuss with the population and with us, that is not the honesty that you have given to the opposition today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are ready for this fundamental discussion, at any time! And there is a lot to discuss, of course. In addition to the example brought by Mr Auer, the small example, we can bring many, many other examples of what goes wrong in the administration. But where are the discussions? We have for two years a subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee on Administrative Reform, which no longer meets, because you cannot agree on anything anymore, and because, although the major parties of Austria sit here in a government, you cannot enforce the resistance of the national leaders who sit on their pledges and privileges and do not contribute to the fact that we finally have a modern administration, a modern legislation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the Supreme institutions today, and the Court of Auditors has made proposals here. They all said: These are good suggestions, wonderful! There were “Austria talks”, where the club members and the Federal Chancellor, who discussed vice-chanckers – they haven’t taken place for a long time – where all this was promised. But there is nothing yet implemented – except: The national administration courts are now being implemented, and then we have to pay suddenly more for the activities of these courts than before. This is not necessarily an administrative reform as it is supposed to be. And with regard to the criticism of tasks that have been presented here: Yeah, we'll be there right now! In the Constitutional Convention for 18 months very good work was done, but unfortunately without results, because at that time the political constellations did not vote. Now it would be different, but there is still no result. Let us begin today to define legislation and administration: What are the tasks of a modern state at the federal, regional and local level?- Oh, my God! And what we want to do about tasks, we'll do that too. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Why do we still need nine national legislators to decide on any camping regulations, construction regulations or anything else that should be organized in a uniform manner? Why do we need a federal council in which any people sit without competence instead of organizing the Federal Council in such a way that they sit there without any additional salary and organise a participation in the federal legislation, as provided for by the federalist principle, but no mean competences for the countries are organized? Why do we not question the levels of administration, where there is certainly one to be removed, not only in the school administration, as we have said, but also in the state administration? What do we need a federal administration, a state administration, a district administration and a municipal administration? If we strengthen the communities, we make them really strong communities that are directly on the citizens, and we see that at national level only more is happening what is absolutely necessary, with proper political control! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That would be the tasks of Members of the Landtag of the future. And then we won't need as many Members as we did in the past. The BZÖ has made the proposal that we can reduce the number of mandates here in Parliament and also in the Landstagen et cetera. You refused. That would also be appropriate – don't worry! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] The Minister of Finance is worried about the BZÖ that we will then fly out. Mrs Finanzminister, we are not concerned with the party, but we are concerned about the future of this country – you should take an example from us! – and that is what people demand. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Klubobmann's head has said that the ÖVP has always been for the debt brake. Now it would be interesting to think about what you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, mean “ever”. In the sense of eternal? How long is always? I do not even want to say a week, but in any case no longer than September, because until then, the Minister of Finance has said – and that could be cited – that she is against a debt brake. So far you've always been against the debt brake, now you're pretending that this would be natural as if it were the only right and true that you've always been for it. That's the problem. We – you can cite all three opposition parties here – have made sometimes different proposals in the last three years, but again and again, which you have rejected. Klubobmann Bucher has repeatedly said that this Greek story will not be so feasible. After each summit, they meant: Now we have solved the problem! We asked for a debt brake, you said it was all nonsense. Now, suddenly, let's put it. She is firm – because the dictatorship comes from Brussels –: Yes, that would be important and necessary now, please take part in the opposition! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to tell you at this point: We have said, of course, that we are ready to negotiate, not a question, for any reasonable reform, including in the case of debt brakes. I have now also mentioned a number of specific proposals, such as, for example, you, Mr Cap, always reminding me of them in the administrative area. But we can do much more, for example simplify the tax system, lead to a reduction in the direction of flat tax, and, and, and. But one thing is not that you do it the way you did in the banking crisis! Together, we have decided a bank rescue package of over €100 billion – but with specifications, with conditions! [[Abg. Straw: Those who have never been observed!]] All of these have not arrived, but to this day you will give us our consent to this bank rescue package if we criticize that precisely these conditions have not been met. [[Accident with BZÖ and FPÖ]] [[Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] If this is also the requirement for the debt brake, then you really have to do it alone. We're not the fig leaf for your standstill. We are involved in real, honest, decent reforms. When it comes to a comprehensive discussion, not to burden the taxpayer and the citizen, but to relieve excessive bureaucracy and administration, we are always ready to talk, but then you have to be really comfortable to engage with us in an honest dialogue, rather than blaming first, then inviting us to cooperate and say after that: You can't criticize anything, because you were there! – That’s the wrong way! It will be your decision whether you will descend from this high horse in the sense of Austria or whether you will continue to go the way into the abyss.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9737	Mrs Fekter came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9759	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Dear People's Lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Stable finances for a secure future were the motto that I presented the 2012 budget. And we want to achieve these stable finances through a bundle of measures, through an overall package: through the already much quoted debt brake in the Constitution, through a law on the limits of liability, through the Stability Pact that we have concluded with the countries and communities, through a multi-year saving path that allows planning for deficit reduction, and through clear spending limits for the resorts that have always been lowered by all the resorts in the past, both in 2011 and in 2010. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You didn't know that at your first budget speech!]] Budgetary discipline is observed in the government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is the main task of budgetary policy to ensure that our finances are stable, the confidence of citizens in a careful action by the state to ensure our prosperity and a secure future. We also need to build confidence for our partners in the EU, in the economy, in the markets, and we need to build confidence in the sustainability of our budgetary policy, which we consistently pursue. We have clear objectives, namely to save, to reduce debt and to invest in the future so that we can secure the future, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have proved this in the crisis when we have used high budget resources to secure jobs and help businesses economically, and have thus supported purchasing power. This has cost a lot of money, but we have much better economic problems in our country than most other countries around us, and have quickly come back out of the crisis. [[Abg. We're in the middle of the crisis!]] We stand well in Europe today. We have good employment figures – that is the most important thing – and above all, I very much respect them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have good figures on youth employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know that in the case of the PISA rankings we usually do not cut off as well, but as Minister of Finance, the positive figures in relation to youth employment are more important to me. Our solution with the dual apprenticeship training system and the vocational and higher schools – a good mix – is one of the best in Europe. Spain, for example, has 40 percent youth unemployment. In view of this, ladies and gentlemen, there can only be resignation. Not so with us! We are forward-looking in our work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why we have also put in place offensive measures in this budget for education, offensive measures for science, offensive measures for innovation, because it is important to take money when it comes to the future. [[Call FPÖ and BZÖ:Where?]] My task is to ensure stable finances through consistent reduction of deficits. As already mentioned, we were much better than the planned data in 2010 and in 2011 we will be better than the plan data. And the present budget estimate for 2012 is better than the path that the House decided in April is better in terms of saving and deficit reduction than the path of April. From this we can see that we continue this course consistently. With the debt brake we will also lay a tooth in this consequence. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We also pay attention to growth, because only with growth can we secure full employment, can we achieve tax revenue, which allows us to be active in those areas that we have shown in the budget. Mr Scheibner. Mr Spindelegger, our Foreign Minister, together with a large economic delegation abroad, is supporting exports to support the economy and to support the export economy with regard to foreign contracts. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's supposed to be there at the budget debate!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] We consider it a good division of work, a very good division of work, that the responsible Minister of Finance is available for the debates here in the House and that our Foreign Minister is supporting the export industry. [[New condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This budget can only last if we have growth. What helps with our consolidation path is the new budgetary law. With the upper limits of expenditure and the multi-annual path, we have a best practice example, which has now also become EU law and has to be implemented by all European countries. In the context of the Stability Pact, there are agreements between the Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities which help us to keep expenditure on the whole of the state and to dampen the deficits. It must help all local authorities. This will be a major task for the debt brake. The Federal Government, countries, cities, municipalities, as well as social security companies will have to comply with these debt brakes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As already mentioned, this budget also knows very carefully offensive measures and the priorities for future tasks. Education, science, research and innovation are therefore a priority in this budget. Sustainable budgetary policy creates stable finances, and only stable finances allow us to make policy. We tell our voters, we tell the Austrians where the way we want to go, even if in the future painful reforms will be associated with it. We want to change that, and we want us to be stable. To do this, we need all the partners, not only the federal government, countries, communities, social security schemes, ladies and gentlemen. We would also like to take part in the opposition because we want to anchor it in the Constitution. [[Abg. Kickl: I can't imagine that!]] I believe that there is a need for overall responsibility in this context. [[Abg. Strache: In your irresponsible way, we will not be there!]] I know that it is more difficult to carry responsibility than demands, but with regard to responsibility, the House as a whole is now required. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Abg. We do not support your responsibility!]] In the care sector, for example, once 300 services were responsible for the payment of the care allowance. We have now bundled these into eight paying places. The Federal Government and the Länder have combined the money better, more efficiently, so that it will be made available quickly to the people who need it. [[Abg. Strache: The care cases have been shortened! The poorest of the poor who need the money have had to experience cuts!]] We will continue to work in this direction, similar to the health reform and similar to the permanent solution of the care fund. With regard to the administrative courts, we will set up a reform as soon as this relieves and shortens the procedures and thus saves tax money. [[Abg. Kickl: The government in conjunctiv!]] We will, for example, work in the field of foreign law, where more than one hundred different authorities work for establishment, residence permit, asylum, visa, et cetera, all in a Federal Office for Migration and Asylum. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not even budgeted! That's not budgeted for the fifth year! That's a phantom!]] This will also be able to raise many savings potentials in the medium term. In this respect too, the administrative reform is far away. The implementation of the Sixpack – a cryptic word – is those EU targets that call for budgetary discipline, transparency, savings and, above all, coordination at all levels, we will present to the House immediately in spring. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are trying to signal this stability. And I'm trying to help the House as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9979	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10015	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Finanzminister, thank you for this signal, for this clear signal to the financial markets: It's left in Austria! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Mr Scheibner, it is really more than cheap to criticise the vice president's trip abroad, who, together with a large trade delegation, is trying to ensure that the domestic economy flourishes that the domestic economy receives orders. [[Abg. Scheibner: The time!]] This is more important than following your silent speeches, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Herz, you have apparently not heard the impressive speech of Mr Bundeskanzler. The Federal Chancellor has said perfectly correctly that it is necessary to put in place savings measures that one must understand that the debt brake is to be understood as an expenditure brake, but you are having a cheap class fight debate here. Helping If you are not at the economic location of Austria, I would like to write to you in the main book, Mr. Colleague Herbs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's about – that's the top goal – that we get the Triple A. Austria is on a good path in this regard, because we do not need to generate ourselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] But of course it is also necessary that we do our homework. That is why it has been good for our vice chancellor to propose to write this debt brake into the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen! However, it is sad that the opposition is now so windy and not ready to take on joint responsibility. [[Abg. Straight: You can do your EU sector policy on your own!]] A little more patriotism, ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Patriotism is a strange word for you! There is no trace of your homeland and patriotism!]] Just from the FPÖ I would have expected a little more patriotism, a little more home love, a little more home-connectedness, especially since you are always putting it. But: The proof of the pudding is in the eating! If it really is a matter of displaying a connection between home affairs, home love and patriotism, then you are hiding away from it, ladies and gentlemen! This is a sad statement that we have to make here today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we are now also debating a budget that stands for growth and employment. Look at the unemployment figures in Austria! Not that not every unemployed person would be too much, but in the European comparison we are well standing. We stand well in the general unemployment statistics, and we stand on youth unemployment, thank God. But this is not a matter of course, but it is the result of a good, far-sighted policy, ladies and gentlemen. But it is also necessary to put in place structural measures, and I am of course on the subject of spending brakes in connection with this debt brake. An expenditure brake must be here, structural measures must be taken. We need to do something at the retirement age. We can no longer wander around the things that are necessary. In this context, I would also expect a little more courage from the social partners, which I would like to address very openly. We must face the pension privileges that exist in the city of Vienna, at the ÖBB, in the National Bank. These are things that we must address openly and openly, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that we get out of the structural deficit! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Glawischnig has really addressed this budget in an incorrect way by saying that there would be no offensive measures in it, particularly in connection with education. First of all, I would like to say that the educational people's desire is not treated properly, as it has been presented here. We will take the signature very seriously. The popular desire will, of course, be treated properly here in Parliament, we are taking this very seriously, but there will also be no special treatment, Mr Walser. It is to be classified where all popular desires, which have about the same number of support signatures, are to be classified. There will be no special treatment, but proper treatment here in the house, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This budget contains a number of offensive measures, if you look at this: about €100 million more for research funding, €80 million for offensive measures for the expansion of day-to-day care – by 2015, a doubling, Mr. Walser, you can also recognise this – several hundred million € for the expansion of the New Middle School, several hundred million € for the reduction of the classroom maximum to 25. All of these are offensive measures in the field of education, and it would be nice if the Greens could also recognise such an offensive measure and not always criticised it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: six, seven years!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10156	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10214	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! Mrs Federal Minister Fekter! You said you would like the opposition to solve the problems. – I tell you, the best way to ask someone to do something or to expect a favor from someone is to: If you send out speakers from the government groups here who think we are permanently unable to do so, who think we are populist, who are almost permanently aligned with us, that we have no idea anyway – and this obviously concerns all the opposition parties. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Completely right! Gentle, mish creature!]] You won't say that all the opposition parties are just stupid! So, obviously, the shoots are only in the government and in the government fractions of red and black. Then Mr. Cap comes out and says: Yes, we have a crisis now, and we need a debt brake. And the opposition must dress warm, hard times coming to the opposition. – Where are we anyway? So I don't know. First of all, you would not like to join the opposition, but you need it because you need a two-thirds majority that you are no longer grateful to God, and second, I would expect you to deal with the opposition differently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] You know, if I want anything from my neighbor, I have to see that I have a good understanding with him, so that he can help me if I need him. But just as you did, it won't work. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Now I'm telling you something – I told you a year and a half ago –: One can certainly be different in terms of a problem solution, that is nothing bad. And I told you something, too: But then at least one must have the grace to listen to the other opinion, especially when it comes from experts. And I told you the following – you can read it – at the first Greek package a year and a half ago: If money is already sent down – we were against it because we say we are there for our own people; so much to Patriotism, which Mr Amon has addressed – then you are pumping it into the economy so that you can get jobs so that the unemployment rate does not rise to the infinite and social unrest can be prevented. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But you didn't do all that. The Greeks have for three years now, although we are constantly sending down money, an economic performance that is strong in the minus. Half a year ago, economic performance was forecast to be minus 5 percent. Now it is already minus 9.6 percent, and we know that despite debt cuts, the Greeks will not be able to solve the problem ever if the economy does not work. – You make permanent mistakes, even though two years ago you agreed that you are driving the only right way, and that is basically wrong. That you don't believe anything of the opposition, I still see it, but that you don't believe anything to your own economic experts who are paid by you – IHS, Wifo and as they all call it – that's actually the disgrace to the whole thing. You don't even believe them! You are convinced of your opinion and you drag it every week – but it changes every week, because of course the framework conditions change every week. And then you go here and expect the opposition to help you, even though you're constantly accusing them. They all think we're stupid, and yet we're supposed to help them. Now give me a reasonable reason why this should be the case! We'll do that. And if you are so convinced of your performance, that you are doing the only right thing, then I wonder why you have such a terrible fear of questioning the population – as even the entire political group in Europe has a terrible fear of questioning the population. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But on the other hand, you are permanently convinced that you do the only true and right thing and have the solution. It's bad! I can remember the following: When Papandreou has just taken the word to ask the people, there has been an uproar throughout Europe, yes, all over the world, because you know exactly that the people have not believed anything for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to your so-called debt cut: I don't know how to look for the debt brake. The debt brake has been in place in the EU for 16 years, since then there are the Maastricht criteria. [[Abg. Strache: 16 years broken!]] - They were broken. They were broken, even before the economic crisis. The Germans and the French were the first to comply with these conditions. The debt brake has been available for 16 years and it is permanently broken – permanently! – from all the states in Europe, and now you want to anchor a debt brake in the Constitution. [[Abg. Bookbooker: 20 out of 27!]] What you think of the Constitution, we have seen here last year in the course of the budget debate: They broke the Constitution as if it wasn't there at all. And now you go to the point where you say: Although we are putting the debt brake into the Constitution, if, in exceptional situations, more money is needed than the debt brake would be provided, then the simple majority will suddenly be sufficient to eliminate this in Parliament. – So much for your honesty! The debt brake will then look like the ORF, because there are She has already agreed with Mr Wrabetz, who is black and red: The ORF will increase the fees by 7 percent over the next year. [[Abg. That's a scandal!]] - Good night, Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the debt brake you are introducing! That is exactly what we are talking about: increasing compulsory fees for the Austrians! That's how the debt brake looks!]] Thanks to the ORF! Explain Once you've got the population in one of your next shows! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10355	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10376	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies' lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr Themessl's contribution to the debate was a real confession. He said he understands that you can't believe the opposition. – Thank you for these emphatic words. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I don't wonder. I'm just staying with the so-called Kickl FPÖ, some say Strache-FPÖ, but he writes all the speeches, he's, so to speak, the old ego of the party keeper. [[Abg. Stache: Strangely, all of our forecasts have voted, unlike yours! All our forecasts have arrived, unlike yours!]] Maybe you should just tell him that under Haircut was not meant to be the hairstyle of the Federal Chancellor, but an act by which debts are reduced, because someone can no longer pay. We prevent this country from getting close to a situation where someone can claim that Austria would not fulfil its obligations. And we do that with this budget, with these measures, and we do it very well, no matter what you think. [[Abg. Strache: That's why the Triple A is waving!]] They will see – as in the 2009/2010 crisis, when we were the best day when we had the slightest increase in unemployment, when we had the slightest breakdown, the figures prove – that this federal government has acted well, has secured purchasing power, has secured pensions and social standards. [[Abg. That's unlikely! You're such a real-life objector, that's incredible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] That's much more important than your criticism of what you've done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Such objectors, that's incredible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] But that's typical: The Vice-Chancellor, with a delegation from the Chamber of Commerce, is trying to ensure that we can also establish economic relations in that Iraq, which is being rebuilt and which has democratic structures. – Mr Scheibner from that party, when was the Iraq journey? Was that not still Jörg Haider together with Ewald Stadler, who in times when a dictator was ruling there, who had a few thousand Kurds killed with poison gas, had no shyness to go there? – That wasn't a problem? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner]] [[Abg. Where's North Korea?]] [[Abg. Haubner: Haubner: Where is the connection?]] But then, if you support attempts by a democratic state to develop the economy, it is bad. Here you can see what kind of policy you are doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's a sign of what excitement you're going to develop. Are these the unpleasant issues we address? [[Abg. Street: The North Korean Party Visitor of SPÖ! North Korea!]] Let's be glad – let's be glad! – that these gentlemen do not share in the question of how we are rehabilitating, because they will only have to have several nail samples. A nail sample will be the question of the debt brake. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] You said that was something you've been demanding for a long time. We will see whether your comments in recent months will be the worst if the decision is taken here. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: You must stand the worst!]] - No, you don't exist. Yesterday is a good example, Mrs Haubner. Yesterday there was an amendment here to the decision-making procedure, which had only the following content: Improvement, reintroduction of the amount that pensioners have lost due to the removal of the single wage reduction amount, the new equality of special expenditures, the equality of self-maintenance and a foreign trade law that prevents foreign companies from getting under control of our infrastructure companies – fire brigade, hospital. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Yes, but only up to 1 700! Only up to 1,700!]] Such a law does not agree with either the FPÖ or the BZÖ. [[New call of the abg. Ursula Haubner.]] You refuse to improve the pensioners! And then we see in such a vote how far it is with the daily announcements. You really don't care about the seniors at all! I am glad that the seniors are interested in our Federal Chancellor and our government and that they receive a purchasing power security of 2.7 percent. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Straight: Pure inflation adjustment! Now increase the ORF fee and take them away again!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] That's a good policy! And you would still vote against it if it were up to you. You're not even ready to join us. Unfortunately, Mr Amon is not there, to whom you have to say something – perhaps you can do that to him. We have agreed on a debt brake; that is not just the expenditure side. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] And it's perfectly clear – it's perfectly clear! – that the budget, which is right for Werner Kogler, consists of revenue and expenditure, and therefore both must fit. By the way, this budget fits: 3.2% of the public deficit is almost already within the Maastricht criteria, and this in the year three after the crisis. We can therefore assume, as Mrs Bundesminister rightly pointed out, that we have had better results every time, because we have carefully budgeted, that we have a very careful, solid budget and that, if the previous implementation is carried out as in the past and with the cautious assumptions of 0.8 percent growth real for next year, we are also close to or below the Maastricht criterion. And the debt brake we make is an additional guiding principle, so that we also get public debt back to the 60 percent that we had long since had without a bank package in 2007. In this sense, I invite you: Support You have this policy! [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Thank you! At first, you'll be squeaky and then invite!]] It is for the people, it is for the country, and the good performance of Austria has worked well. I have only allowed myself to say, Mrs Colleague, those things that you are not doing quite right yet. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: No, because there we do not need you to do that, Mr. Oberlehrer, you!]] You don't need to be offended! Join us, support the good way for this country! The country has so far done a very good job for this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10645	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10666	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The Minister has stressed that the path, the debt brake can only work if there is a corresponding good economic development – and she is perfectly right. Yes, of course! The revenue depends on a good economic development, but this goes further: Good economic development is, of course, also dependent on research and development, and research and development depend to a high extent on how they are financially equipped. That is what we are looking at in this budget. Let's make the nail sample, as Mr Matznetter did earlier. The budget figures show something quite different: Those budget parts, which are essential for research and science, only rise by 1 percent. If you still consider the inflation rate, it is a real minus. Mrs Minister, if you're talking about offensives, that's the white cock for research, for science and for universities. And You are also part of the research strategy that you decided in March! Of course, the question is how seriously a government is taking decisions. There is a research strategy for 2020, which has defined the objectives of which the expert studies of the Economic Research Institute are already proving that huge amounts of money are missing. For the 2012 budget alone, the 84 million are missing, and, ladies and gentlemen, this will rise to more than 400 million by 2015. Since we are talking about a safe development, of a good economic development and of safe revenue, in this context is really white hound. This is particularly true of young researchers. There is great uncertainty here, and this leads many of them to go abroad. That is exactly what will be missing in the economy in this form. In 2010, the President of the Court of Auditors, who is now taking place here, issued a report on the 2010 research strategy, i.e. the last one that has been decided, namely in 2005 and criticises the lack of the commitment of the research strategy, and makes several proposals. I say to you, the strategy that was now adopted in March has the same shortcomings again. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if this goes so far for research, for development in this budget, for the coming year and in the coming years, you can simply work with “copy and paste” when you evaluate the 2020 strategy, because it has been done nothing but copy the shortcomings and insert them into the report – and this should be avoided as far as possible. Here it takes a boost to simply ensure economic development, a good development, a modern development. Let us look at the area of expenditure, the high-level song on federalism reform, on structural adjustment and so on: Yes, it is sung here today by ÖVP and SPÖ, but what are the realities, what do the realities look like? In the field of enterprise promotion alone, more than €15 billion will be added, where the Court of Auditors will also be able to highlight the multi-tracks that have criticized multiple promotions, without loss of efficiency. Mr Haubner as High Representative Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce! If you look at the website of the Österreich Chamber of Commerce and enter into the funding navigator – that is what the search engine is called – which promotions I can obtain if I want to take advantage of in tourism promotions, this navigator says and writes 268 funding rails and support programmes for Austria. Quite clearly, there are parallel structures, multiple offers and so on, but ladies and gentlemen, this is also a disadvantage for companies! There is a need to finally light up the jungle. This has long been the case, and this is something, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, which you should tackle as soon as possible: the jungle of funding and the resources that make financial resources available for future investment, and these investments in the future are called education, called research, universities, science and, in particular, environmental and climate protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10738	Next speaker: Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10764	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Lichtenecker, I am with you when it comes to dealing with reforms with which we are reducing double-tracks, promoting where they are useful, and removing incentives that only create confusion. So you certainly have a partner in us – or I hope we will also be in you – when it comes to addressing these reforms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the budget. We have already said that this budget is a budget with responsibility and a budget that provides stability with important measures that our country needs right now. If you've been looking all over Europe in the last weeks and months, you've seen that there's been a lot of turbulence, and also in Austria we haven't been spared, but – that's often said today – we're a little better there than everyone else. We have yet another advantage, and this is certainly due on the one hand to the government's action with the economic packages, but on the other hand certainly also to entrepreneurship in Austria: the entrepreneur, the entrepreneur, who with a lot of effort with the employees ensure that the Austrian economy goes so well. I would also like to thank the Austrian entrepreneurs and their employees very much for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria has also demonstrated this year with an average economic growth of 2.6 to 2.9 percent that it can. But if we look at the outlook for next year, the WIFO forecast of 0.8 percent, which we have also taken into account in the budget, we clearly see that we need to set clear priorities here, too, in the budget policy. Throughout Europe, savings packages are chained, and that is why, of course, we will not come around in Austria. And when we look at what is happening in Europe around us, we see that we also need to be careful that we do not have more losers in Europe, but that we also support those who now need support in this regard. We must therefore see that at the end there is more Europe inside and that Europe will become a stability union. We stand – and we have to say that quite honestly – before hard times, and we will do everything we can to make them as tolerable as possible. [[Call at the FPÖ: Who is “we”?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need a common rethinking for Austria in many areas. That is why it is also important to continue the course of fiscal consolidation pursued by our Minister for Finance and to confirm to financial markets that we will reduce our debts and that we will keep the triple A position, because this triple A position is one of our great assets. [[Abg. Strache: A true word! ... Budget consolidation!]] I think, Mr Strache, it is very important that we keep this Triple A, because that is the prerequisite for our good position, which we still have in Europe. We have also taken a first step with the debt brake, which still needs to be followed, which is quite clear to us. The high tax burden we currently have in Austria is also referred to in the location rankings as one of the main problems, and there we have a comparison that makes us sure. With the tax and tax rate, we are in a very high position, namely on the 117. ==References====External links== [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] It is therefore necessary to improve and increase efficiency in the systems and not to burden even more those who are already the net payers of the systems. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no room for new taxes, especially not for corporate taxes, which I say quite clearly here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also need to ensure that we keep Austria's international location still competitive. We started our successful policy in 2000 with Wolfgang Schüssel, namely to expand Austria into an international hub of the economy and to set up many headquarters in Austria. This has brought jobs, which has brought many jobs to small and medium-sized enterprises. This successful story must continue to be written, and we must not endanger it by inventing new taxes on a daily basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I say it quite clearly: We need renewal in the systems, we have great tasks ahead of us. We must not insure the entrepreneurs, the investors by inventing new taxes. Our very clear message reads: Renew instead of tax!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10842	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10881	Mr President. High house! First, allow me a few preliminary remarks, first to the representative of the Kim Il Sung fan club, the North Korean-Stalinist fan club SPÖ. Where is he, Mr Matznetter? - Now he's not here again. We have not criticized Mr Spindelegger travelling to Iraq to save Iraq because he saves the world. He's a great missionary. [[Abg. Grosz: Super-Michi!]] No, we just said he could have planned this differently, because this budget debate has been on schedule for months. But I do not know that without this trip of Mr Spindelegger, now in Iraq, the Iraq would probably no longer exist next week. Yes, you have to acknowledge that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So you have to show so much that the opposition group is ready to learn. Foreword number two: Ladies and gentlemen, I have wondered a little about the call for order received by Mr Kickl, namely for the term “debtling”. 'Debugment', Mr President, means nothing but that this term should express an increase in intelligence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] It is significant that you get a call for order when you use a term that expresses an increase in intelligence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with BZÖ and FPÖ.]] This is also so significant for the climate that exists here in the house. So in the future, I will try to talk about annihilation, because then I can no longer get a call for order, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Mrs. Prammer!]] I have a wide field of activity when I talk about annihilation, and therefore I am in the speech of Mr Kopf, ladies and gentlemen, because I do not want to talk about a speech here. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we have been told for many years how stupid a debt brake is, what a stupid idea it is, and if we come out and pretend to be justifiably invented, if we had really testified, this also shows a degree of stupidity, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to tell you in every way. But something else came out of your speech, and that's a warning for us. I take up once again what Mr Scheibner has already said: We agreed to the bank rescue package in October 2008. The thanks for this was that we were constantly hated for having consented. We agreed to a mode Operandi for a new budgetary law in June 2006. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: have agreed!]] The receipt for this is that today the Klubobmann of the ÖVP comes out and says he does not understand why we do not also carry the budget, because we had agreed to a new budgetary right at the time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's exactly how it will be with the debt brake!]] It's been a warning enough. [[Abg. Head: I didn't say that!]] – But that’s exactly how you said it, that’s exactly how you said it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why this is a warning for us, ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the debt brake you are now wasting. You know, a debt brake, as the Swiss have it, which has a real effect, could have had an effect with us for a long time if you had introduced it and had complied with it. You would not even have needed them, because the Maastricht criteria would have been sufficient for that – if you remember them, ladies and gentlemen! But if the Federal Chancellor comes here and says that Austria can only make another budgetary policy if the debt brake finally enters the Constitution, and therefore we are responsible if it does not come, and therefore he cannot make any other budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen, then the strong tobak is. I now ask, because the Federal Chancellor is not here – if I may interrupt the conference on the government bank for a moment – his general vicar, as well as he knows better anyway. [[Cheerfulness at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] So, Mr Generalvikar, Mr Ostermayer State Secretary: Call us this villain that prevents you from saving, which prevents you from making any more debts! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Call us this villain, please! You have the opportunity now. I would have liked to mention the villains in front of the House, which at least has the budgetary sovereignty. [[Abg. Strache: Schurke Ostermayer probably!]] Call us these downright villains, who prevent the Federal Chancellor from having to remain indebted to the Constitution without any debt brakes, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Strache: :. who prevents you!]] [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] What's his name, Mr. State Secretary, Mrs. Minister? [[Abg. Rädler: Heimatfilm!]] You're talking. What's the name of this villain? Tell us! What's his name? [[State Secretary Dr Ostermayer: Please, Mr Colleague!]] – ‘Please, Mr. Collegue’ is his name? No, he certainly isn't, because we all know him. [[call to the FPÖ.]] So what's the name of this villain? [[New interim remark by Secretary of State Dr. Ostermayer.]] You act like – and thus we are back on the subject of consolation – as if you could not save if you do not have a debt brake in the Constitution. And it's the bad opposition because it doesn't write a debt brake into the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] You know, Mr State Secretary, this level of consolation policy has already adopted the level of a vote brake. [[Intervocations at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Astonishment brake!]] That is why I say to you: If you continue with this form of politics, the voting brake will act faster than your debt brakes, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I am telling you as an inventor – please, your own State Secretary, arbitration... – No, I mean it too seriously. [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: It's about seriousity!]] Ah, the Federal Chancellor meant it seriously, ladies and gentlemen. The Secretary of State now tells us that it was serious. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter said: “Seriousness”!]] So that's even worse. A government gets up and says it's serious that we can't save if we don't get any debt brakes! It seems to me like someone would say: It is seriously meant that I am for judicial enforcement agencies, otherwise I would have to become criminal! [[Cheerfulness at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] You know, you're making a damn hard thing to take you seriously at what you deliver, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] But if we discuss with the great inventor of the debt brake: Please show me, Mrs Fekter, where you are in here – when was this budget speech, a few days ago? ==References== October – the debt brake required. [[Call:The reading]] [[The speaker holds up the budget speech of the Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] Can you show us that? - I mean seriously, please, seriously. Yes, show me that! You can't, because you still rejected the debt brake at the time. [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: It is a difference between!]] The administrative reform too! Do you know what administrative reform is all about? – By the way, tell your serious Chancellor that once again he interprets the press, a statistics, then he should be careful. I say quite clearly to you: If Greece and Estonia and Ireland are leading the way in the reform process and in the administrative reform, then this is because the emptiness of the empty funds has forced this administrative reform. That is why we are at the end because you are still in the pockets of the citizens and are not doing any administrative reform, ladies and gentlemen. – So much for the interpretation of this statistical list. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] But what does the Minister of Finance say about this? - I mean seriously, well-noticed! I quote from Mrs Finanzminister's budget speech on administrative reform: “Step by step this Federal Government is also working on optimizing the administration and is not waiting for the Big Bang, but is continuously implementing.” Well, how does this continuous implementation look like with the serious Chancellor? – He has created a new Twitter staff, costing €180 000 per month. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Seven people who have nothing else to do but twitter for Mr Faymann, and thus he is even against an anonymous Twitter – that probably makes it rational in the kitchen and does not need seven employees on taxpayers' costs and is even superior to the Federal Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: Unfortunately, the failmann is more successful!]] – So much for your administrative savings. You know, you don't even have to wait for the opposition, I quote it again. Have you read this before, Mrs. Federal Minister? Do you know this bubble? [[The speaker holds a book towards Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] [[Cheerfulness at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] You just need to nod, or you can also deny it. You don't need to look away. Look, this Büchel has presented your President of the Court of Auditors, right? - That's a scandal, you're really right. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: This is a scandal!]] Have you read it yet, Mrs. Minister? I'll hold it to you. Do you know this bubble? This Büchel is nothing more than the comprehensive administration reform proposal of the Court of Auditors, which you have so far ignored, ladies and gentlemen. This is how your administrative reform work looks, and that is why Austria is the last place in these statistics, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There was even a first draft of the Court of Auditors in 2007 – you have also ignored it. Since 2007, you have ignored that. But probably there is another person who is preventing you from doing so, and therefore we need a constitutional administrative reform task, because otherwise this government will not be able to carry out an administrative reform, although it has a large majority in this House. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Mag. Schickhofer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know, the Austrian public has long been tired of being sold by you for stupid. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Page 11!]] The Austrian public has long had enough to hear from you again and again that you can't do something because you're supposed to prevent anyone from doing it! The opposition will not prevent you from anything. Work and play less here than the great reformists, because it is not you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11315	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11360	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President. [[Abg. Silhavy: Bring quality back to the house!]] Mr Stadler's speech has led us to a country where we do not live. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] We're mostly good in Austria, we're fine here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] The unemployment rate – which has been mentioned here often – is low in relation to that of other countries that work in government. I would now like to turn to a chapter where the economy and saving is a matter that has always been made by women, namely the women's budget. That's a low budget. We know it's €10 million, but there's every euro, every cent well used. There is an effective economy, and this budget benefits women above all. 118 institutions have so far been supported by this funding budget, with about 55 000 women in need of assistance and advice. There are women who are in difficult situations, and they have been given massive assistance in these women's advisory services. A lot of people work honorably. It's often like this: Where women work, there is also often voluntary activity, not only in the advisory services, but also in the areas of unpaid work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Therefore, thanks to all those who work for society without often getting the reward that would pay them. About € 5 million has been spent on these promoters. Another share, about €1.2 million, for campaigns. That's when the call came out again and again: Do you even need that? Is that necessary? Is it necessary to make pay calculators known about campaigns so to speak? Is it necessary, for example, to make the father's choice known accordingly? – Yes, it was not only necessary, but also useful. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: tip! Good example!]] About 30 percent more have now used the income-dependent karenz money, about 30 percent more fathers. This is a success that we wanted to achieve. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or making known, applying the women's helpline was very important. I say it again: 0800 222 555. Women can turn there, free of charge and around the clock. This is an important phone number for all who suffer violence in the family. [[Abg. Kickl: Say it again slowly!]] For Mr Kickl, I should like to say a little more slowly: 0800 222 555. [[Abg. Kickl: That was for writing now!]] Women can turn to it if they need advice if they need help in cases of violence in the family. That's not all. About €3.5 million we have used, part the Minister of Women, part the Minister of the Interior, another 3.5 million for the intervention agencies against violence in the family to promote the anti-violence agencies. That too is an important measure. I also say this with regard to the 16 days against violence, which from 25 onwards. ==References====External links==* Official website Once again, it is pointed out that violence against women, domestic violence, is a human rights violation that is against the dignity of man – and above all women are affected, more than 90 percent of the victims are female. The perpetrators are male in these cases. There is a need not only to offer help, but also to clarify on the other hand, so that violence does not occur so frequently and that those who are affected also trust the perpetrators to show themselves – and that is something important and not ridiculous at all, Mrs. Dr. Winter. A small excursion on the topic of pension, retirement age: The different retirement age between women and men is now being discussed again and again. If they say it's a favor that didn't need it anymore, and the others say that would almost even be a career brake for women, then I escape: No, it's not! At that time, in 1993, when this law was passed and laid down in the Constitution, we said: There must be no equal legal age for pensions as long as all disadvantages between the sexes have not been eliminated! And we're not here for a long time. It is only yesterday that we discussed the report on the disadvantages of women and found that we still have a lot to do there. I'm afraid we didn't do this in 2024. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11466	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11488	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! This debt brake has been decided in a Husch-Fusch action, which was a purely panic action: Quickly, quickly before so to speak, the friends come from the credit rating agencies so that the Triple A can be saved. – This is dishonest from my point of view! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you have followed yesterday’s Round Table debate on television, I am going to be right: This can only be overwritten by the title “Because you don’t know what you are doing. ” - You don't know what to do. You don't know how to do it. You don't know who to do it. Your activities are conceptual, without ideas, inseparable and unscrupulous, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Both coalition parties are responsible for this chaos, both are responsible for the emerging disaster. They are involuntary to reform – and that is why new taxes and social cuts are threatening. You always hear of the population: We currently have the worst government ever in Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And the head of this government is the Federal Chancellor Faymann. He is, as it were, the Director-General of this government. [[Abg. Riepl: No, Federal Chancellor!]] – Director-General, compared to a private company. I would certainly recommend him not to go to a private company. He couldn't make a lot of money there. He is responsible for the lack of a concept regarding the debt brake. It should first and foremost ensure that these concepts are presented. [[Abg. New builder: At the... he will already be accommodated!]] I would like to say once again: We liberals are ready to talk, but of course with the restriction: “Our money for our Leut”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Super-Bundeskanzler, at the pre-weekly trade union meeting of the public service, actually meant to tighten the belt, that was not necessary. He even warned about it – and that, although he knew exactly that he had decided a week before the debt brake. That's a strong piece, mine. Ladies and gentlemen – in view of € 268 billion of debt we currently have in Austria, of € 130 billion in liabilities and of € 8 billion of interest that we have to serve and of course go abroad. This is related to the threat of our credit quality, which could experience a reclassification. I have recently read a guest comment in the “iv positions”. I liked him very much because he correctly describes this government with the words: ‘The highest level of action is: ‘There is enough to do, let us be it’...’. And Ortner calls the government like this: “And so all the political wax figures remain the same, motionless ones in a standstill.” Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, you mentioned to me at the budgetary negotiations in the Budget Committee that you were on a savings path. I was really upset about this because I can't understand how stupid you think of us and the people outside. In the case of a deficit of 9.2 billion in 2012, the savings path, according to the largest deficit in all time, of 13.2 billion in 2010, is as follows: 2011: 10 billion, 2012: 9 billion, 2013: 9 billion, 2014: 7 billion, 2015: 6 billion. Not positive, not surplus – deficit, ladies and gentlemen! 41 billion € in total. That is to say, if we add to the existing 268 billion these 41 billion, in 2015, it should not be changed to 309 billion deficits by means of the debt brake, which I very much doubt. We are almost 90 percent indebtedness from GDP and pay for it if it does not become more expensive due to a downgrading, in total 11 billion interest rates. Unfortunately, the rulers cannot expect God either. They have problems with basic accounting, as they want to reduce debt to 60 percent of GDP by 2020. That would be all right, however, is not in the Constitution relating to the debt brake. However, if you now assume 309 billion debt in 2015, with a GDP of 360, high in 2020, 60 percent of debt would be 216 billion. That means that in five years, we would have to reduce 100 billion in debt by surplus. This is simply impossible – and this is something that is being brought to the attention of the population. This is unfair, ladies and gentlemen. That's not how it is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Without reform steps already mentioned x-fold today, it will not be done with a debt brake either. There's the debt brake for the cat, too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11580	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11601	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear Lady's People's Lawyers! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you do no good service to democracy. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: What?]] I fully understand that you are using a general debate to attack the political system in general. But I do not understand that you do not answer in any way with concrete figures, but only make general accusations, ladies and gentlemen. That is unacceptable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder:... you can't watch!]] And you can be convinced that I know what I'm talking about, because three months ago I was myself in an opposition party. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Because you're called Gerstl!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a striking argument!]] But I think it is extremely necessary for Austria and for democracy that we discuss details here too. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it would really be good for you if you were for the Austrian population and not say on the one hand, we demand money from the Austrian Federal Government to the extent of €9 billion, and on the other hand say: Why hasn't the government saved a long time ago? They're inconvenient. You demand on one side increased expenditure, on the other side you say: save, save, save. That doesn't fit in. You explain for yourself how you need it right now. That is why I would like to go into the points very concretely, because it is not just about the general debate, but also about the breakdowns 01 to 06, the Supreme institutions, where we can already deal with the various areas very specifically, namely: Administrative reform. A very important point that the Austrian Federal Government is addressing in the structural reform is the reorganisation of administrative jurisdiction. And that's a reform step. I am unwarranted when I quote the former head of section Holzinger, now President of the Constitutional Court; he does not belong to my party and is certainly not close to my party. He last stated in the Constitutional Committee that he wanted this reform 25 years ago and now it is being implemented by the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where? Which one?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a success project of the Austrian Federal Government, an administrative reform that is necessary so that this budget can continue to be performance-oriented and socially-oriented in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But what reform?]] What reform, Mrs Glawischnig?- Oh, my God! They ask: What reform? . I am very sorry that you have not yet heard this, because here it is about abolishing over 120 authorities that at the same time we create only one federal administration court and at the federal level two federal administrative courts, which in the future will bring huge savings. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Heard a lot, but don't feel it! Turn it over!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It will certainly not be cheaper!]] This brings not only savings, but above all for the citizen and for the economy, shorter procedural periods, legal certainty, discharge of the highest courts, improvement of legal protection – all that you, as long as we do not make it, require of us. Now let's do it, now you're making the reform bad. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where's the budget?]] And we reject this, ladies and gentlemen, from the opposition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you demand more control from the Court of Auditors and at the same time stand out here and do not say that the Court of Auditors has been since 1. In January of this year, there is also control over communities with more than 10,000 inhabitants, he is on the road in a cross-sectional test to see where he begins to examine first, and today he has more requests than ever before, where he can test a community, then this shows that we are taking exactly the step in the right direction: More control where it is necessary. More opportunities to help the individual communities, namely, when it comes to consultation, also from the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, another area which Mrs Fekter has already mentioned and which is very important for administrative reform is the Federal Office for Asylum and Migration. This means that we are bringing 194 authorities together to form an administrative unit. It's a mile. We will now have a clear competence with nine outposts, a level of decision-making power; that is what you have always wished of the opposition of us. We'll do it. That's different from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11768	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11789	Mr President. Estimated members on the government bank! High house! Mr Gerstl, you do not know: On the one hand, Mrs Minister has told us that the administrative reform is still far. They're just telling us she's going to be implemented. – It would be nice if we felt something of it sometime. I should like to remind you that, in a very central future area for our country, namely education, 380 000 citizens have now called for massive reforms – and we will insist that these demands of the people of education will be debated here in the future and will be largely implemented as far as possible, for these would be measures that are forward-looking. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, very little can be heard of offensive measures by this Federal Government. Explain your “reforms” to your mayors! I have just received a broadcast of 140 mayors, across all the parties who demand – at last as it says – fair funding for educational institutions: from kindergarten to school. So your mayors say that this is not the case and that this must finally happen. Yesterday, in the “ZiB 2” Mrs. Gabi Burgstaller said that an educational reform should finally be undertaken. They all feel and remember nothing of these “great reforms” you are constantly proclaiming to us by SPÖ and ÖVP. How does the situation look? – You of the ÖVP always tell us that you are the service party. As far as education is concerned, however, you are the preventative party. I remember the current school system: They send out a third of the children of nine and a half years of age to the AHS, where they form the alleged elite. After five more years, however, the results should be fundamentally better than in other countries where children learn together. How are we? – We in Austria bring just 3 percent into the top range in all test areas; the Finns bring three times as much to the top, although there all children learn together. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Go to Finland, Mr. Walser!]] In the area of those children who have great learning problems... – Screaming [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's not that way – it doesn't use anything – but it's not like you're dealing with the arguments! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's not true!]] The fact is, in Austria, 15 percent of students in the so-called problem area can be found in all test areas; in Finland this is only 3 percent. Isn't that what you're thinking?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Maybe it's for teachers like you!]] My appeal: Enable performance in schools, take on the basic reforms – and then it will go up in our school system! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: If something like you..., it's no wonder!]] We can then discuss even more precisely in the afternoon in the special debate about how it looks in this budget where you use tricks to achieve a – supposedly – better dosage. – In reality, it is only going backwards, and I will explain it to you this afternoon even more precisely. There was great astonishment at last week's GÖD Congress as two gentlemen marched through the ranks and announced by themselves that they were the face of the future. That's how the face of the future looks in Austria. [[The speaker takes off his sacco. On his T-shirt you can now see a printed photo showing the German Chancellor Faymann and President Neugebauer each with a striped flag on which “We are the future!” to read.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] These are Mr Neugebauer and our Federal Chancellor. In the hand Faymann holds a violet flag with the inscription “We are the future!” and the other a red and white-red flag. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Just those who block reforms in our country say that they are the future – still with a gruesome face, but I have to say, I understand, but actually, because of our education system, such a grotesque face would have to make the children who make young people! [[Abg. Wheeler: Just like you!]] Again: They are those who prevent fundamental reforms – and this is a bear service you provide to the education system. [[Abg. Grosz: Are you a fan of Neugebauer?]] You from the ÖVP have long stood for a standstill in our country, you stand for an education system of the 19th. Century, you stand for a caputt-saving of our kindergartens, for a caputt-saving of our schools and universities! I can assure you: The face of the future looks different, so that the demands of the education people are implemented, and it looks like we finally have a slim administration and a debureaucratised education system in Austria, a powerful and just education system. To get it to the point: The face of the future in education is the green school. Help us do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11943	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11964	Mr President. Dear Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the starting position? – The starting position of Austria is not the way it is represented by the opposition. We are the country that is among the five best countries in Europe, we are the country that is among the ten best in the world. We have a triple A like five other states in Europe, that is, the best credit in Europe. We have the lowest unemployment rates, we have the lowest number of youth unemployed – these are achievements. Don't make the land bad! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Right!]] That's an achievement of this government! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I do not want to hide that we have met in the particularly difficult times of the crisis and made the right decisions at the right time, otherwise we would not be one of the five best countries. In order to continue to retain this status, one now has to make decisions that will ensure that we keep this status in the future. But Austria is one of those countries that have best mastered this crisis, and in other countries it is considered a demonstration project! You don't have to do anything bad. This is really a very cheap argument. And if I am in the case of cheap argumentation, I would like to write to Mr Strache one in the main book: FPÖ was in the government when Greece was included in the eurozone. Where were the resistances of the FPÖ? Where was Mr. Strache? – There he was already in FPÖ and a well-known member of FPÖ. FPÖ is responsible for Greece's entry into the euro area. 20. June 2000! That's 2000! [[Abg. Kickl: You were against it!? That's interesting!]] And in 2001 Greece was taken up! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Make yourself ready now and say we have nothing to do with this – you have put it into us! That's not responsible for what you're doing here! [[Abg. Kickl: You were against it, weren't you?- Oh, my God!]] This is exactly the same as Mr Strache. He makes himself here, talks about the budget, and was not in any budget negotiation. We have looked through the protocols, it was not worth his visit to these negotiations. And then he makes himself and says he's the representative of the little man. Then we decide to reintroduce the single-earner discount rate for pensioners who are really not doing well – and who is voting against it? - The FPÖ! And then she makes herself here and says we are the representatives of the little man! You do the opposite! In reality, this is a very impeccable policy, namely to say one thing and do something else, to lead people behind the light and to do the other permanently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] I'm already at the... [[Abg. Grosz: The Vice King of... Next jobs! He gets 20 000 € unemployed income for walking! He's a side-jober in Parliament!]] Because there's an intermediate call coming from the BZÖ: Well, the BZÖ has proved in Carinthia how well it is: 20 billion € Liability for the Hypo Alpe-Adria, the bank to the wall, the highest debt of all countries in Austria, and then you come and make it to economic professor! – I am interested in this economic policy, because you have proved in Carinthia that you cannot! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] They're the biggest weak people and they're talking about business. That's inconceivable! If I had to keep you on the budget, it would be like keeping my dog on a crack sausage. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] It is really incredible that the biggest weak people are talking about economic policy! [[Abg. Singer: Breathe! Breathe calmly!]] I consider our budget to be balanced, forward-looking and ultimately one of the best in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12118	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12140	Mr President. Mr Wittmann, would you have stayed in Wiener Neustadt? Now that the FPÖ or the opposition are responsible for Greece being in the EU, that is just as similar as I would say that we owe you every Greek in Wiener Neustadt, which is just as stupid. That's really stupid, what you're trying to do! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Krainer: You were Clubobmann!]] [[Further calls.]] It is only significant how seriously you take the debate. Another press release, which has just come across the APA, is much more serious – it is indirectly related to debt and debt brakes – namely the following report: [[Abg. Krainer: You were Klubobmann at the time!]] The tops of SPÖ and ÖVP have just agreed with the ORF, the fees for all who watch today – and also for everyone else who does not watch, namely for all in Austria – to increase by 7 percent! [[Abg. Krainer: Klubobmann!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about debt brakes now and at the same time to increase the ORF fees for the spectators. And you're still in there! At the very least it is very dangerous that the government parties at the ACH so independent ORF increase the fees, and there is reported: Let's do everything, no problem at all. – This is the policy of the arrears of this coalition, which we strongly reject: here we talk about debt brakes and increase the ORF fees! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Minister for Finance said in her budget speech two weeks ago: The state ship is on a safe course. – When we then said: yes, but the “safe course” is the safe movement on the debt mountain, you just smiled. Now, a few days later, your safe ship is in this debt mountain, and now you want to get on the brake where you're already in the middle of it. That's completely crazy what's going on! Now the brake is no longer useful to you, where you are already in the debt mountain, but now only the return process is still useful: back, the budget is re-negotiating, re-negotiating and deciding again from the point of view of the debt brake! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Everything else is dishonest. It's really dishonest what you're doing. On Friday – and everyone can follow it – the two government parties will decide here €9 billion more on debt, while at the same time putting yourself here and saying: We're against new debts. A debt brake probably only starting from 2017, since I also thought for a long time: Why just 2017? – Because You know exactly that you won't be in office anymore! All of them up there, and also you from the two government parties, are chased away by the voters in 2013 with the literal, symbolic wet fads. You won't just have a two-thirds majority anymore, you won't have a majority anymore, red and black, and that's good! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You know that very well, that's why 2017! In terms of content, it would be as similar as if the new Austrian team leader Marcel Koller had stood up and said after yesterday's defeat, after the painful defeat against Ukraine: “My credo is, the Austrian football team won’t lose a game anymore from 2017 on.” [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... instead of being in the National Council, football looked?]] That would be exactly the same if he had said that. At the same time, he doesn't say: with whom, with what strategy, with which players; yes, compared to you, he doesn't even know with which device is played, so poor are you. That's really sad what you're doing here! This is not understandable, and no one really believes it. I'll tell you something. The only effective debt brake can only be the one directly related and related to three things, namely an immediate stop in fees, with a tax reduction including tax reform and a structural reform in the state, administration and bureaucracy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Otherwise, this debt brake will not become a debt brake, but a debt for the Austrian taxpayers. She'll become a debt trap, and we know that too. This tells you – for example, just a comment from today – Mr Reinhard Göweil of the “Wiener Zeitung”, who speaks of your policy, of the announcement of this debt case, than of “Science Fiction” and I quote: “The government should better list exactly what it intends to do in 2012. Otherwise, the announcement of a debt brake remains political symbolism". – Yes: political symbolism, not anymore! You say you don't know where and by what means, but with full force. That can't be a policy, Mrs. Finanzminister! You also have to bear in mind that Austrian taxpayers and all Austrians are already bleeding and paying for your debt policy in recent years. Only a few hours ago – yesterday it was – the new figures on poverty have been put on your table: A million people are obviously affected by poverty, 150,000 children. 300,000 people do not know how to heat themselves in winter. Then tell them: For Greece, we have it – but debt brakes because we have lived above the average!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's what these people have to listen to from you? Every Austrian works until the middle of the year only for you, Mrs. Finanzminister! He deserves nothing at all until the middle of the year only the state deserves. The middle class is bleeding, family benefits are reduced. The care allowance is now reduced, the single parents are being disadvantaged. The drivers pay billions, and you continue to raise the oil tax. The companies are moaning under an incredible tax burden and bureaucracy. The fees are increased everywhere, from the canal, water, refuse, from living to passport fees, car registrations, rental contract fees. That is no longer to be summarized in a speech where people everywhere are burdened! But you are talking about the debt brake, for which the Austrians are of course asked to cash back again. Yes How often to shrink You still have people in this country? – Once again for the Greek debt, once for its own failure in Austrian domestic policy, and now again for a fictitious debt brake from 2017 onwards: This is a policy of bankruptcy, but not a prudent, far-sighted government policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You know very well that by 2015 tax revenue will rise by 30 percent. By 30 percent! They do not have such a bad situation at all, and tax revenues rise three times faster than inflation. Nevertheless, we say: Enough paid! That is why we are saying that we are paying enough! because, despite some of the very nice accounts that we now have in the wage structure, we have, of course, real wages losses in this country over the last seven years. We have real wage losses, people get less money and no more, even if you may now check it out with better degrees. That's a fact, too. That's why we say stone and clear: Enough paid, Mrs. Minister! That's not a policy if you come here and say: Debt brake, but not like. That's not a policy! Finally, another quote: "The less developed European partner countries, especially the southern Member States, will then, if they are in monetary union, face major social problems due to rising unemployment. Every expert – no one doubts that anymore! – predicts that this will ultimately result in the fact that we, as the rich, will have to submit transfers for these countries with higher unemployment. This means a new euro tax for the Austrians so that we can finance this euro and compensate for unemployment and high social costs in the weaker countries.” Do you know who said this, and when? - That was on the 12th. In the debate on future monetary union on June 1997, Dr Jörg Haider said that. He has met exactly where we are now 15 years ago: The rich, the countries that have more, must pay for those who are not suitable for monetary union because of their social problems and unemployment! 15 years ago – this is far-sighted in politics, Mrs. Minister! This is far-sighted when someone already feels, feels in his political life what can happen, and warns against it. But it is no fortitude to announce anything of Nebuchadnezzar, not to know what it means, and ultimately to let people blood and pay for it. We're not going with that! This is a policy of failure which we will criticise and combat at the most massive.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12275	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12307	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The volume is not always what actually fits the content, when you speak of facts here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Better an honest volume...!]] I would like to ask you, Mr Westenthaler: What to do You here in this House, in the Austrian Parliament, as a representative of the population? They are legally condemned, they come here and shake the ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I am a Member of Parliament, just as you are!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Very weak! Very weak!]] You suggest here... [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] They're talking here about channel charges that order the municipalities. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're the last one in there!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Mr Stadler is also speaking here of “sorkens”, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Last of all!]] “Schorken”, this term – and I have also seen it, the villains, several days and weeks ago: That was when Gaddafi was thrown down when his handcuffs shot the civilian population there on the open street. These are villains for me. Here you, Mr Stadler, use this word for the members of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are political villains!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing various budget areas today and in the next few days. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You should admit that I overshadowed you intellectually!]] Today, we are simply discussing the responsible distribution and allocation of the taxpayers of the Austrians, who have worked hard on them. [[Abg. Grosz: Is that a virgin speech?]] This allocation is under great responsibility of our Minister of Finance Maria Fekter, who is very much committed to the sustainable and stable development of our country. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is that a virgin speech?]] Ladies and gentlemen! “Enjoy now and pay later”, that’s over, we know. But with this budget, which Maria Fekter has presented, we have launched a new culture of performance and social responsibility. [[Abg. Huber: Listen, hear!]] I might want to make a comparison to driving. We all drive cars, and if we notice that through foreign influence or perhaps through our own carelessness the car gets into sluggish, what do we do then? – We hold the steering wheel tight, we carefully brake in order not to brake too firmly. [[Abg. Bucher: Several?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How often do you get into the sluggish?]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is the budget debate! The transport debate is coming!]] We are trying to stabilize the vehicle and bring it back to the right track. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How often is it tossing you?]] That is exactly what we need: the debt brake, which has now been decided here by both coalition parties. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That was the braking phase...!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely this debt brake that will result in no sins as in the past being committed in the future. This is a very important and essential step. [[Abg. Themessl: How would you actually...?]] Nevertheless, of course, we know very well – and we do not close our eyes to that – that too many resources are currently flowing into the past. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can...! I want to understand!]] Interests and debt management leave us very little at the moment, not to say no room for investment in the fields of education, science and research, and without these investments, of course, we will not be able to stand in international competition. [[Abg. Grosz: You can talk to the ÖAMTC!]] But that also means to us: Investing, saving, maintaining a stable path and focusing on continuing, as the Federal Minister has stated, to secure the economic location of Austria, because we need the best opportunities for companies to develop. We need companies to create appropriate training for young people, training places in a wide range of industries. Above all, we need jobs that are well paid. We from the Austrian People's Party stand on the dense social network we have in the Republic, ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not wish to mention that two out of eight million Austrians, two out of eight million citizens, finance the social state by paying 30 percent of the citizens into the transfer system, and 70 percent are financed from this area as so-called net recipients. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are aware that this is not a balance, it is a great failure. Of course, we need to intervene here. [[Abg. Krainer:... is only wrong!]] We from the ÖVP stand to those who need help: whether through age, sickness or unemployment, there can always be something. But it cannot be that from the hard-earned tax euros of the citizens, the Austrians, we support those who are very likely to make their contribution, but do not. That means we need a balanced line here. Last but not least, I would like to point out that with the reintroduction of the single-earner discount rate, we will make a lot good for our families in Austria. I don't like to say that. We have increased in the family budget, although savings measures are necessary: For the families of Austria, there will be €6.3 billion, and they will also need it – families with children of course! Ladies and gentlemen! The women's budget is also located in the Federal Chancellery. I am very grateful, Mrs Frauenminister, that the 10.15 million have been maintained here so that they can continue to be used in the future for support measures to promote equality between women on the labour market – which we discussed here yesterday – but also for the further development of the structures for the prevention of violence and, above all, for the protection of victims. In principle, it is clear that the gender aspect has already been included in all departments and that there are improvements here. But of course it is still to be done, because we women – ladies and gentlemen – do not only make our contribution in families, businesses and businesses, but also in many social associations, we also make our contribution to a solid and sustainable budget policy, because we stand for stability, security and broad prosperity. That's what we all want in the Republic, women and men.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12608	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12630	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We have a budget debate today, but nothing has been said about the budget at all. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] All the stories you're telling here are about a debt brake. But debt brakes are not available in this budget because you have not taken in, because the Minister of Finance – wherever she may be now – I wish her a good appetite – would like to have a surplus debt of €9 billion for Austria. Where's a debt brake? The Minister of Finance could have done this! She doesn't need it in the Constitution or somewhere else on a paper, she can do it. It can save this federal government, no one will have anything against it. But that didn't happen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you take this debt brake into your mouth so often, you have heard one thing in the course of the debate: Neither from the right nor from the left do you know what is in it; You want new taxes – you don't want new taxes at all. But both of you agree: The evil, evil opposition must necessarily come along, and if it does not go along so that you get this comic debt brake into the Constitution, then the opposition is the evil one. However, you don't know what should be inside yet, and you're not yet agreed, free of charge according to the motto: Everyone goes, but no one knows where. And that's where you want our consent? - You won't get them, I can tell you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Minister has today said a very treacherous sentence. She literally said: We strive to signal stability. - Please, what does that mean? Mrs Bundesminister, you should not signal anything, but you should create stability! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is your job, and not to try to signal any appearance. That is the wrong way, because it is this path that leads us to where we march, namely, into the debt trap. And there's one more thing to do, Mrs. Federal Minister: You want a debt brake now because you don't know how your ESM, which you praise so high and which is obviously the one that is above all standing, will develop. You have no idea! If the order comes in January next year, you must transfer within seven days. You transfer somewhere, you need it. No more debt brakes: Austria is burned out by this ESM! This is the true background why on the other hand, you want to pull the money out of the bag to the Austrians. That's your policy, and that's a missing policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This policy only serves to make you know before Brussels that you are a servant before Brussels and that you will send our money, the money of our taxpayers, the hard-working money to Brussels. This is your behind-thinking in your entire Stability and Debt Brake Faucet, which you do not take seriously yourself. If you would take it seriously, Mrs Federal Minister, then if you don't need to say it now, you won't have to vote today – or on Friday – on a budget in which all of this is not inside at all. So you're making a double-bedded policy here, which is transparent. People in this country have long seen through that, and you know that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, there is a SPD politician, Jens vulture, who said to this ESM: “We are experiencing a galloping democratization throughout the process.” That's what it's like: We are experiencing de-democraticisation, starting from Brussels, and Austrians have to pay for it. An ESM will be created in which the Austrians have nothing to say, in which no one has anything to say anymore. You can't sue him, you can't criticize him. Those who sit in there are immune. Our money goes in there, every year more, and if they demand more, that's all right. We have to pay anyway, we have no way of ever getting out of there. Do you know what that is? – This is the way to dictatorship! Every dictatorship tries to hide it, only the ESM dictatorship in Brussels. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the true scandal in this story. They are still coming up and saying that today's budget is so wonderful, we're now going to take in the debt brake, and then everything will get better. – Nothing will get better! You know that very well. You just want a redistribution of money, and that's why it's like saving you. You have already saved people in need of care, massively, because you have not only made it difficult for them to access, but you have simply reduced the amount of people's care money and taken it away again. There are numbers, there are statistics, and there are many people who have already shown this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You take it away from the sick, you take it away from the families. Mr Krainer has already said today that it will also remove the deductibility for childcare. They take it away from people wherever it is necessary. Especially in the social sector, in the pension sector, you take the money away from people so that you can ship it to Greece via ESM, perhaps to Portugal or elsewhere. This policy is obnoxious, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12756	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12793	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Since not too much time is available, soon: I've often said I'm used to a lot of budget debates. But I think one can discuss quite objectively without talking about scenarios where you often wonder: Which country is being spoken of here? – Certainly not from Austria! I think Mr Wittmann has made it clear: We are not only in Europe, but also internationally in the front. And I think it is quite the time to debate things seriously, to do the best for our citizens and not to speak up horror scenarios. I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the institutions, the top bodies and also the Federal Chancellery deserved a few sentences. I have nothing against a general debate, but if this goes on until Friday, we really don't need to discuss any budget chapter, because it's always the same for ourselves: More money is to be spent on all chapters, but no debt is to be made. It's a game that doesn't come up. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But let me say two or three sentences to the Supreme Institutions, to the federal legislation. Mr Westenthaler, we can either laugh together or not, I do not want to thank our staff members of the Parliamentary Directorate very much for their support all year round. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you!]] I think we could do that together, but we do not need to be divided. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we are in federal legislation: I said very late in the evening at the request of Mr Stadler yesterday. In this legislative period, in fact, we made a great deal of journey on the subject of the Rules of Procedure, which we said months ago or a few years ago: I can't, I can't, I can't! . I just remember the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Information Directive. It is a matter of discussion that we could decide immediately, with good will. But I would like to: We have been sitting for months – in reality, two years – and are actually done with the new immunities regulations. We have said that we abolish the extra-professional immunity and strengthen the profession. We could, if we were to sit together – and I invite everyone to do so – also work this part very quickly and have taken an important step in the right direction again without always telling ourselves what is bad and what should not be. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Don't invite again!]] In addition, to this constructive part, I cordially invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12858	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12880	Mr President. Mrs Fekter! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate, the Court of Auditors! High house! Over the last three years, we have had more than 300 Decide – of course, with changing majority, that is clear. But I do believe that it has brought us where we are today, not in a situation in which we must be ashamed, in which we must fear, but in which we should take care. And if the budget debate is seen this way or that today, I say that I am very, very proud that we can define our stability factor in such a way that we still have a safe place within this state structure in Europe, while at the same time confessing to others who need help to provide the necessary help. Only a united Europe can remain a socially strong and a strong Europe of economic policy! We shouldn't forget all of that. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] But, of course, I would also like to refer to what my previous speaker pointed out, namely the Supreme institutions and the Federal Chancellor's Office, which are now in the debate. Allow me to comment briefly on the women's budget, but also to say a few words about the public service. On the one hand, I am pleased that the women's budget at around €10 million is also guaranteed for the next year. We must not forget that over 50 percent of this budget is spent on 110 advisory bodies, of which 46 are women's service facilities. What do you imagine? – Thousands of women seeking help, need advice, need information, be it in case of separation, whether in case of job change, whether in the case of child rearing, any private issues or service legal, labour law issues. And there are hundreds of thousands of employees available for twenty thousand hours to simply do what women need every day in this country. I too do not want to say thank you, and I would like to thank all those who work in this area very much. Because all these women who work for women do excellent work. And of course these are also performance providers for me, as are the Güssinger Pendlerin or the scientist. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have good anti-violence facilities, 35 percent of my budget goes up for it, and that is good. The second half is provided by the Minister for the Interior. We both finally want to make an emergency accommodation for those affected by forced marriage next year. I believe that if we deal with energy next year, we will be able to report very positively on it. I believe that these €10 million, as they are used, are actually used from the point of view of the relationship. For I also hope that all the departments – and we also have this legal mandate in the Constitution – will immediately take all the measures we are taking, all the money we provide and spend, to check whether these funds are made available to women and men to the same extent and fair. I believe it is important that we encounter each other in this House with the necessary respect, that we discuss small budgets with serious seriousness, and that we take seriously our plans, namely to have in the Constitution, that we consider the money we spend – the entire budget that benefits citizens – to be gender-neutral that we want to treat men and women the same way. I think that's very important. The foreign word is ‘gender budgeting’. We take this very seriously. In the future, all departments will look to how the funds are made available. If men become disadvantaged, we will make more money available to men, and if women become disadvantaged, more women. This bill is so simple. Let me say a few words about the public service: Yes, it is indeed a very big challenge that we are facing with the staff level we have that is being reduced from year to year. We don't occupy any second retirement. This is a very big challenge for all employees in the public sector. In the last ten years there have been 10,000 jobs that have been reduced, and it is not said stop. It is true that it is only in 2015 that we want to try to maintain the level of staffing, but today we do not know whether we do not need to reduce this level of staffing even further with the planned debt brake. However, this requires assistance for the public servants. We see that in the field of eGovernment we are getting even better, that there can be work facilitation for our staff, because the citizen and the citizens demand just as much this service orientation, demand that we be quick, also demand that we act sparingly and would like – rightly, of course – the same services as before. The current debate has so far shown that both cannot always go together, because there is no egg-legging wool milk sauce. They don't exist, and it can't be to demand savings on the one hand and say on the other hand, we stop everything now and spend the money with full hands. I am sure that we will deal with budget resources in a moderate manner and that the public staff will feel it. I do not want to stress here that we have never had to talk about short-time work, that there have been no redundancies in the public service, no redundancies that would not have been natural. We also need to keep this in mind – I say this here, too, because the President is currently holding the presidency and we are holding further discussions in the next few days on the next salary statement. We also want to put here the signs that fit into this time. We will certainly achieve a socially balanced and good conclusion for our 133 000, a total of 350 000 staff in the countries and communities. I think it is time to say thank you here too that under the more difficult and difficult conditions, excellent work is being done that citizens do not feel it when we save ourselves. I believe that it should also be possible to maintain the benefits, but with measure and purpose to see these savings and not what has sometimes been demanded. If we did, we would have to release thousands of people in public service tomorrow, and it really shouldn't be. We want to keep working. I want to use the women's budget for next year in this sense, as I have done in recent years, so that the money benefits women who need help. I would also like to have a responsibility in the public service in the future, and I would like to carry out a responsibility in the future, where measures are being put in place for staff and laws, where we can also maintain our standard in the sense of saving, in the sense of all. I would like to thank you very much for that. Please be with us, decide You share this budget with us, because it is for the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12992	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13013	Mr President. Dear spectators! Minister, dear Mrs Volksanwalt and Mr Volksanwalt! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! One way or another: It may be nice for you from SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a Member who always writes thanks. We're used to it, and it's a little charming too. Only in this case do I find this a bit annoying, especially the parliamentary self-understanding. I am not here for this, and I am not in the green party and opposition party at all, to take the budget off and to be satisfied with all that is being presented to us. This also reminds me a little of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where we have repeatedly criticized and raised a number of questions, until the Minister has said to me: We are not here in budgetary negotiations! - Where else are we? We are in favour of discussing this, and we are in favour of criticizing it. I see no reason to criticise this budget. I see very little future, as opposed to you, Mrs Minister, especially for young people – there are some young people watching – I see little ambition towards education. There is much too little investment in education. There is much too little investment in areas that would be future-looking and important. The hot iron on reforms is not going on again. There's a lot to do. That is why I am not in favour of simply standing there and turning it all off, but I am in favour of practicing well-founded criticism. But now we are also talking about the Supreme Institutions, you have already said it, also about the smallest budget, namely the women's resort. It was mentioned that it is only € 10.15 million available to the Ministry of Women and thus to women for very important projects. Mrs Minister, you mentioned the advisory bodies, but above all also the money that goes to the violent institutions and to the intervention agencies. It is very important that this remains proven and equal. But what is particularly annoying this year, I think, is that of the € 10.1 million more than 10 percent, namely almost 12 percent, in work services from third parties. It is not quite clear, therefore, that we have also referred to it several times in the Committee, namely on the one hand in public relations and on the other hand in the intervention agencies. We now know that it is almost 12 percent spent on media campaigns and awareness raising. You know, I have nothing against awareness-building, and especially in the field and in your place of business, it is very important to take awareness-building measures. But I believe that it is already the question of the relationship in which it stands. If we are now more than overwhelmed by advertising campaigns, it is no longer just awareness-building for me, but it is obviously self-PR measures that I no longer approve and that are in question. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As much money from as little money as is available to your resort is missing somewhere, and I would think that is missing just in the women's advice centres and girl advice centres you mentioned. This is missing in areas where other resorts are also saved. It would be important that you then perhaps act as a supporter. For example, there are the women's libraries: All libraries specialised in women and gender issues are threatened by the blockage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] – You get it from other resorts, but you have to step in there and look carefully. If the Ministry of Education no longer gives money for it, it cannot be that they must be locked because, as we all know, they do valuable work. It would be important to me that we discuss this openly and also across borders. If the money is missing there, it has to come from somewhere else. It can't be that they have to lock up. For example, this is an institution such as the Women's Health Centre in Graz, where girls and women can get very good advice and borrow the best books. This library is at risk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] – Yes, the resorts have to be among themselves. My job is to point it out and put my finger on it. I am also somewhat satisfied that we are constantly faced with full announcements of the political nature of women, but with half the implementation. There have been the income reports. There was much more announced than was actually implemented. In the meantime, it is 200 farms with income reports. We also do not know how many of these farms really do, and no sanctions are provided for. There is also the great announced quota in supervisory councils. Mrs Minister, you too have always wanted and announced more than was actually possible. I would like to make less of a statement in all these areas, but I would like to see more implementation where the money is missing, especially in these women's and girls' advisory institutions. I'd think of a lot of other things. We've finally been presented with the Global Gender Gap Report or it's recently published. We mentioned it briefly yesterday, and it is shown that it looks particularly bad in the field of education – in the secondary education sector – in terms of equality between girls and boys. There is no money for education reform. There are no appropriate measures to be taken to counter this. I lack the agreement between the resorts that things are addressed, where for the first time the sheer occurs, where inequalities arise for the first time, where citizens go into professions, where in the future they make quite a lot more money and girls still take the traditional professions or often do not complete lessons at all, but are rejected. This is all happening in this secondary area, where I think that far too little political action is being done and looked at. There is a need for agreement, in the case between the Ministry of Education and the host of women. I'm absolutely missing it. In this area, I also see no future in the budget and no future in terms of the extent to which disadvantages are seen in the education system and the reduction of disadvantages. Mrs Minister, I would therefore really like you to consider how much you spend on PR and publicity. There is nothing to say about the many events, but at least there are only €1.2 per woman in the women's resort, and they should be used rationally and sustainablely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13114	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13135	Mr President. My dear ministers! Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! My dear folk lawyers! The general debate should actually be used to highlight: Where is our Republic today, on 16 May. November 2011? – Certainly not where she saw MP Stadler or MP Westenthaler, not in the last place of the EU-27. The opposite is the case. Austria is at the front. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you believe your own propaganda?]] And this is the central task of this federal government: to do everything that Austria remains at the forefront. [[Abg. Grosz: Do you believe that?]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what distinguishes us: They are still standing at the barber step, we are making every effort to keep Austria at the forefront. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It is international experts who have given this Federal Government a very, very good witness in terms of crisis management. And the development in Europe is far too serious, Mr Grosz, to blunder here. I would like to say that quite clearly to you. The situation is too serious to be as stupid as you are constantly doing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: What happens in your time of government?]] In addition to what Mr Klubobmann Bucher meant, we lament: No, we don't cry. We are quite satisfied with what this Federal Government is creating in this country in terms of quality of life. [[Abg. Petzner: Ask the people on the street!]] You don't like to hear it, but I'm still telling you: The most important thing for people – yes, I talk to the people. [[Abg. Petzner: Talk to the people!]] The most important thing for people is to have jobs, and if we have the lowest unemployment in Europe, that is a great achievement of this federal government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Completely removed!]] – Not cancelled, Mr Petzner, not at all! Nevertheless, I say to you: To keep it that way, a lot of things have to change! We are called upon to take action, but not only for the Federal Government, but for all the local authorities. Since the Greens also show here again and again in plenary reform zeal: Your colleague, in Vienna, you would have the opportunity to terminate the special pension right. Why don't you do it? That's 300 million € additional costs. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: But in Upper Austria it is different!]] Her colleague Walser came out earlier to address President Neugebauer here. President Neugebauer was prepared to take part in the pension reform in the Federal Government. You in Vienna would have time, now in the government, to understand what was possible with President Neugebauer at the federal level years ago in order to ensure more pension justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is very easy to produce and criticize here: too much money for ads. When I look at the Vienna Free News, how often do green city councils laugh out. Securely paid ads. I've shown it several times here in the high house for years. [[Abg. Krainer: How often do you find your people in these leaves!]] In Upper Austria, this policy is also being made by the Greens. That is why I am telling you that we have to work hard to ensure that Austria remains where it is, at the top of it. This triple A, this triple A, must be developed hard. And here I am eager to see what the opposition will do here in the next few years to implement reforms that will not always be pleasant. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] We have a number of tasks to do here. I have already mentioned the special pension schemes in Vienna. The Court of Auditors has calculated that the additional cost of more than €300 million alone. Deeply unfair to all other Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Or do we think of the special pension right at ÖBB. Who is to understand that ASVG staff with a much lower income than people at the ÖBB have to co-finance this massively? We're already beyond the 2-billion limit. This sum will rise. Yes, we need reform here, and I very much hope that the Federal Government will succeed in implementing these necessary reforms. In this administrative reform work group, with the support of the Court of Auditors, the WIFO and the IHS, we have drawn up a number of points. I hope that the pressure is so great now – if this debt brake takes place, we must make reforms – that we first end the special rights before we intervene in the general pension system. There we must start, even for small groups, and if necessary, with a two-thirds majority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, when I think of the Austrian National Bank: Who still understands that you can retire at 55 years of age after 35 years of service with 85 percent of the last relationship? In addition to the height of reference there! – I don’t know if he’s going to early retirement, but he also has a favourable pension system, which nobody else has in the house, with this general incidental fee. [[Abg. Grosz: How the Haberzettl! This is now practically also in early boarding!]] There's only one thing about the ÖBB. By the way, this is also deeply unfair within the ÖBB. Those who work hard, who have shifted night shifts, are disadvantaged to those who sit in the administration. Read only in the Court of Auditors' reports! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This should be changed, and we have the opportunity to do so together, because as a government alone, we will not create individual reforms, because we need you as an opposition because we need a two-thirds majority. And I'm eager to see if you're willing to take part in these reforms.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13332	The next speaker was Mr Rosenkranz. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13353	Mr President. First of all, to my colleague. Residual: After his speech, I really understood for the first time what Mr Alt-President Khol meant when he was on the occasion of his 70th anniversary. Birthdays in an interview with the “Small Newspaper” meant that the existence of the ÖVP was another proof of God for him. – I think, yes, that is really the only thing you can write into the party program here. That's really your line. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] But in order not to slow down your reform – you have also mentioned the creation of the national administration courts – we can help you immediately. These administrative courts should also be able to do one thing: not only to decide on a cassatory basis, but also to decide on a reformatory basis, in the matter itself, in a meritorial way, so that the administrative burden after the referral back is a lower one. Therefore, first of all, I would like to make the following request in the field of the Supreme Institutions: [[Quoted print version removed]] By the way, there is already a corresponding legislative proposal from Mr Fichtenbauer in the committees. Here is the possibility to do something. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now, very briefly: Focus on education. We will deal with this in the respective subgroup tomorrow, therefore let I should like to ask you, because it is both relevant and up-to-date, to come to an educational population's desire. Konrad Paul Liessmann, who is gladly used by the SPÖ God as an expert, already has this in the “standard” on 11 November. Commented on November 1 under the title “The Irrestances of the Educational Pharisees” and there in fact one made: A popular desire, which is applied by chambers, industrial associations, social partners, the SPÖ, the Greens, even by the own minister who is self-proclaiming, over all media, by state artists who hang on the subsidy trop, and by the Schickimicki Bussi side-view society, such a popular desire has attracted 6 percent of the right-wing people, because the people know very well when they – under quotation marks – “Elites” that otherwise tell us, yes, selling out to the EU is the best we can do, immigration is the best that can happen, payments to Brussels and to the Pleite States are a business for us, the biggest problem in Austria is the change of the federal anthem, so that the daughters can adopt children in equal sex relations, but this is prevented by family policy at the same time when they say: Dear people, at last desire what we want!, then the people know very well: Nothing good can be behind these demands! And the result after this popular desire you got black on white. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To make it very short and to agree on tomorrow's debate: We do not believe that social romance, that false dreams of justice and fairness can lead the education system, but our children need what they need in life: Performance and discipline. That is not to say pipe-staberl-pedagogy, colleague Walser, but performance and discipline. Our education system must create one thing: that those who come out of the education system do not – as you do want to slip right into basic security. We need service providers for our society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After all, we do not want a system of education that produces careerists, because capitalism needs consumerism, according to the motto: If you don't know anything, you have to believe everything! We do not want that for our children – hopefully in large numbers.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13450	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13471	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the budget debate on debt brakes, I do not want to ignore an aspect which has not yet been mentioned: the Austrian cities and municipalities. As mayor of a city, I think we can say that we will certainly make our contribution to the Stability Pact, but I would like to point out that it will not be easy for the communities and is not easy now because there are communities that budget very well and which are doing well, there are many who are just doing their homework, but there are also many – that is almost the majority – who have very difficult to do. It is therefore also necessary to point out that it is absolutely necessary to disarm the transfer services accordingly, that, taking into account the tasks of the municipalities, we must no longer impose on these additional tasks that we must return to increase the municipal autonomy tax, which has fallen from 40 per cent to 20 per cent. This is a significant loss of revenue, and it must be taken into account here to act in the sense of Austrian cities and communities. I would, however, like to focus on the public prosecutor's office in the discussion within the framework of the Supreme Institutions, because the public prosecutor's office is more planned in the budget. This helps to strengthen the speech in the countries – closer to the citizen, to the citizen – because the need is simple. But a very essential aspect next year will be the fact that there will be the biggest change in the public prosecutor's sector since it existed, namely the activities under OPCAT, a very essential area. The entire apparatus of the Human Rights Advisory Council will travel to the People's Procuratorate so that these tasks of control can be carried out in institutions where people are being stopped accordingly. I believe that this is an essential progress towards democracy. Therefore, my respect for the work, my respect and everything good for the future tasks!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13504	I would also like to say that the motion for a resolution concerning the possibility of the Administrative Court to decide meritorically, submitted by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13565	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13586	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr. Rosenkranz and others from FPÖ believe that in the last few days you have been talking bad about this educational people’s desire, is another proof that your alleged commitment to the “little man”/the “little woman” is mere announcement and farce and has nothing to do with your actual policy. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: There's nothing wrong with that!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] More than 380 000 citizens who take the road to sign a popular desire are not nothing – and not even a “boiler spot”, as Mrs Kitzmüller said yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: But already something similar to nothing!]] The content of this educational people’s desire is exactly the “little man” and the “little woman” because the goal of this educational people’s desire is to launch an educational reform, which includes the equal opportunities offered to all children, from kindergarten to university, to find the same opportunities in the education system and regardless of what parents deserve and the social status they have, their education careers, their educational course. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Wake up, you dreamer!]] [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Don't!]] What your performance and discipline system has brought under the black and blue government, we now see these fruits: no educators, no teachers and a very bad education system that can't stand a comparison in Europe. So please hold your lectures on education and then come if you are really interested in reforms. Speaking of reforms – Mr Lopatka is now no longer in the hall –: Yes, we are talking about reforms that hurt, but then we are also talking about reforms that hurt the clientele of the ÖVP, which hurt the clientele of the SPÖ, because the reforms that have been on the table for years, which have been in reports of the public prosecutor's office, which have been addressed in proposals, among other things, the President-in-Office of the Council, Moser in the field of administrative reform, which are also hurting your clientele, dear ÖVP. And your clients are also represented in the countries. And what are you doing? What to do You, for example, in the Subcommittee on Administrative Reform, where we have so far dealt with a subject, namely school administration? – We meet, we hear x experts who all unisono say the same thing, then the country round comes, and then the colleagues of the government parties are afraid here in the National Council, and the subcommittee is simply recruited. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Why does Vassilakou not do anything?]] But he's not being cancelled, but he just hasn't met for two years, instead of taking it very self-confidently and saying: [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Who is the chairman?]] I, ÖVP Member, I, SPÖ Member, see here a necessity for all Austria, and therefore I don't care if my country sees it differently or not, so it doesn't matter whether I come to the next list or not, I have this self-confidence and lead reforms! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Who is the chairman of the committee?]] You don't do that, you don't do it in this area and you don't do that in many other areas. The same is true of property tax. This is where the SPÖ can be taken out as far as the will is concerned, but where it is not possible to take it out, is as far as enforcement capacity is concerned with the EIA. So don't talk here about reforms that are not pleasant and that you want to look at how the opposition parties react. Why don't you attack her? Away from the demands, to implementation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13719	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13741	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Austria must save, consolidate and reform. Austria needs stable finances. Austria needs to reduce debt. Austria is required to make its structures more efficient. These are the demands of the Court of Auditors in many Court of Auditors reports. Mr President, Mr Moser, we are currently doing a great deal of work on this administrative reform, and I am very grateful for the proposals that you are making to us over and over again, for the improvement you are constantly encouraging. I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for having succeeded in ensuring that the Court of Auditors itself deals with its own budget. There is a significant increase in the budget. The Court of Auditors’ posts have been reduced from 346 in 2005 to 326 in recent years. Of these 326 posts, 13 are currently open and 313 are occupied. In response to a question from the Budget Committee, the President informed us that the Austrian Court of Auditors is well placed by 2015 and can carry out its audit and audit tasks. We also asked about the tasks of the future. It has been decided by us here to examine the communities of more than 10,000 inhabitants. Eight municipalities are currently being examined by 71 possible municipalities within the meaning of a cross-sectional check to obtain comparable indicators. I am very grateful if we get the first feedback from these municipal examinations so that we can have new statements and key figures, even in agreement with the countries. Another encouraging communication is that the Austrian Court of Auditors itself was examined in 2009. Austria, with the seat of INTOSAI – the President is very active there – is quite a worldwide model. The Courts of Auditors of Germany and Denmark as well as the Federal Financial Control have examined and issued a proper and positive certificate to us. This shows us that control works in Austria, if it always needs to be improved there and there, and the Court of Auditors has also implemented its improvement measures according to peer review review. I would like to invite everyone to take a picture of the Court of Auditors. We currently have the opportunity to experience him here in Parliament very closely at an exhibition. I have to say, this exhibition is really great. It gives us a great insight and shows us how the Court of Auditors has developed. Everyone is invited to take a picture. Finally, in connection with this exhibition, I wish that we, as Parliament is currently under review, Mr President, the Court of Auditors has already announced here that it will accompany it, that it will be involved here, Parliament is able to adapt and remodel as quickly as possible so that we can work well and sustainably here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13796	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13817	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Dear Lady and Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! In this debate, too, the Supreme Institutions stand for discussion, and as chairman of the People's Procuratorate Committee, I take advantage of the opportunity to point out again that there is a misunderstanding that according to the Constitution, the People's Procuratorate is only authorized to find out about it when the state administration of federal bodies is carried out in an organisational sense. Only there is the People's Procuratorate responsible. In recent years, however, we have had a number of outlays, about 50 outlays, which have led to the public prosecutor's failure to examine there. This is an blatant lack of legal protection and control. That is why we believe that there should be a balance between the control of the public prosecutor's office of the Court of Auditors. The argument that this would cost is not valid, because it is already the case that the public prosecutorship is concerned with these things, because the population does not know what is distributed and what is not. The population still has the feeling that they are public enterprises, and so they turn to the public prosecutor's office. That is, the work is under way. However, the People's Procuratorate must state that it is not responsible for the fact that it is not its area. So there is no extra cost, nor the problem of any double examination, because there is a completely different task in the Court of Auditors. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] One point that has already been raised today is the beneficiary pension schemes. We have a truly unsatisfying state in this regard. We have largely abolished political pensions and discharges here in the House in 1997 on the ground of the FPÖ. But there are still 470 old politicians in the old system. And again and again one hears of these, how crushed they are now, that they did not succeed at the time in breaking into the new system, that they had rejected it, but in themselves would like to prove their solidarity, but did not have this possibility. That's really tragic. So far, they don't have this opportunity, and we want to help them. We want to help them and we want to give them this opportunity. We must imagine, for example, that if a club boss leaves the old system here, he will receive a discharge of € 170 000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Cap!]] This is, of course, not to be seen in relation to the other servants in this Republic. And if they have mistakenly missed it in 1997, as has been said, then in 2011, in times of crisis, it would have to be better known to the old politicians and see that it is necessary to give a sign as well. We should therefore give them the opportunity to do so. No one's rights will be invoked, but voluntaryly it should be possible. I would therefore like to make the following request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Stefan, colleagues on options for politicians in the old-age settlement and pension system in the “New” settlement and pension system The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government template providing that politicians still in the pension and settlement system "Alt" will be given the opportunity to switch to the pension and settlement system "New". We will see whether the free choice for free mandates is really desired.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13880	The motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14002	Next speaker: Mrs Marek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14026	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to dedicate myself to the women's budget, an important cross-sectional matter with a relatively low budget. All the more important, I believe, is the setting of priorities. Mrs. Federal Minister, I think a bit of a pity that the priorities of your resort were somehow unexplainable. They have stressed several times in writing, but also in the Committee, that detailed planning will only take place in December of this year for the next year. In fact, however, it was not about details. It would have been a priority to learn where your main priorities for the next year are. And I assume that just a few weeks before the end of the year these are already recognizable, and that would actually have been the case. But I would like to make a very specific point. It is about the fight against violence against women and, of course, their children, because in most cases the children are unfortunately affected, especially in domestic violence. In recent years, significant steps have been taken. Especially the cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Women has proved itself here and is also successful. However, a project, which is also part of the government programme, is open here, namely the emergency homes for those affected by forced marriage. Here are often very young women, very young girls, who often go through terrible and unimaginable things. And in addition, Mrs Federal Minister, you have also answered a question by Mrs Unterlander in writing, which asked: How does it look? What's that gonna cost? – And you have said in your answer to the question that the corresponding negotiations with the Ministry of the Interior must be concluded, and only then can you continue to look. I would like to refer to a protocol here. At the end of October, there was a joint meeting at the Ministry of the Interior, where Orient Express and other NGOs were also sitting together at the table, and it was agreed that the BKA would be asked to prepare a corresponding meeting agreement. That is, Mrs. Federal Minister, the Ministry of the Interior is on foot. This means that the funds will be made available and the concept, Mrs. Federal Minister, should be prepared by your house here. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, yes! That's what we're going to discuss.]] In other words, don't just move to others, just put the concept ahead. This is our information, I have the minutes here, and here you should simply continue. Here you have a strong partner with the Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner, I think. It has worked very well in the fight against violence against women with her predecessor Maria Fekter. This is, I believe, still the case, and then we can really soon realize the emergency apartment project for women affected by forced marriage. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14063	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14085	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! While the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP tell us the blue of the sky, in reality quite different things run out. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: What kind of wordplay is that?]] [[Abg. Rädler:... Well, the clubman!]] It has already, consciously chosen, already a reason why the tops of SPÖ, by ÖVP are not represented. And if you look at yourself, and I am grateful to Mr Westenthaler for what is currently going on about the APA, what is going on about the telegraphs in the editors, then that is exactly the opposite of the picture you are offering here. ORF pay increase by 7 percent – that’s actually the savings package, the load package has to be said because you don’t really save. These are exactly the thumb screws that you are now putting on the Austrians. I will also tell you why this increase in fees in the ORF is necessary, because there is a strong increase in salary for the ORF director and for the national directors. The works council has revealed it. There is a salary increase of € 40 000 for the ORF chief. More than 20 000 € are available for each new ORF country director. That is, it's a wage round of plus 10 percent. While you grant the pensioners in Austria a minimum of 2.6 percent, the rulings in the ORF boss will receive 7 percent increase in fees and 10 percent more salary. In reality, this is your kind of policy: While one's praces, the others have to save, the others have to bleed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, the ORF is not an individual case. Look at the headlines! [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] Higher Gagen in the Chef's Day! – The income of top managers rose by 5 percent in 2011, and that is exactly in those areas where you have direct influence. The Ametsreiter at Telekom is looking forward to more than 5 percent, the anzengruber in the combination gets over €800 000, and Mr. Roiss at the OMV has invested €2.1 million. And then you go out here and say we have to save, and we really think about the biggest load package that the Austrians have ever been born up. 7 percent increase in fees. But these are just the little things. Look at the SPÖ-led Vienna, the greens are there on board! Do you know how much percentage of taxes in the short-term zone are now being increased? - 70 percent. [[Call the ÖVP:Wow!]] That is why I ask you not to go out here and talk about saving. You don't save in the administration. They do not save expenditure on the one hand. Yes, where are the announced health reforms? Where are the reforms announced in the administration? Where are the announced reforms in our pension system? Here is not saved, but you go here, thinking about new taxes, thinking about new burdens. While, due to the economic crisis, the Austrians have to tighten the belt even more closely, you can see how only the index adjustments, as inflation alone has made. The Austrians living at the poverty line can no longer afford the clothing, the food, the necessary heating costs. While you are responsible for the top managers’ increases in fees this year, in this economic crisis, the Austrians in fact have to bleeding for it and have to be asked to pay for it. In these days, we still have detailed time to think about the various reforms. But I can also tell you, if you look into the APA, that we have to look at something completely different, namely, new elections: ‘Debt brake: Politologists count on stress testing for the coalition. Experts: Chances of early elections increased in 2012’. And your experts, Mr Hofer, Mr Filzmaier, Mr Hajek, say that what you are in fact proposing with this savings package is not feasible at all, because the SPÖ is moving in one direction and the ÖVP is in the other. You just have to look at the reaction of the party secretary, who just passed over the APA a few minutes ago. They begin to embrace each other, and then the Lord of Herbs says: Well, it is “no danger at all ” to the coalition. If he says that, then in fact, fire is on the roof. Well, we just got different positions on the savings package. Well, we want the asset tax. And his colleague smoke says: And we want to increase the retirement age. I can already tell you today that everything you have set out to do with your plans today will not really be implemented if, as in the past, the coalition is disputed and muzzled and one moves to the left and, in reality, the other to the right. That was also the reason why the ÖVP held a crisis summit here a few minutes ago. We must look forward to difficult times, not only politically, but also economically. In reality, the Austrians have to expect the biggest load package that has ever come to them in history, and at the same time they are increasing the gags of top managers. That's irresponsible. That's an inappropriate policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14165	Mr Maij-Weggen spoke as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14186	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Strutz, telling the blue of the orange sky is clearly your competence. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That's in the APA! 70 percent! This is a refusal of reality!]] You have proved this with your speech again impressive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's all I want to say. I would like to devote myself to a very important subject, which no one has mentioned today, namely the area of the ethnic groups in Austria. The indigenous groups in Austria and their families enjoy the protection of the laws. Language and culture, inventory and preservation of these groups must be respected, safeguarded and promoted. No one should be discriminated against as a result of belonging to a ethnic group. This is the first thing in § 1 of the Federal Law for our peoples, and I believe that we have also made it clear with this fundamental statement that we want to secure our six groups. This is not only an expression of our liberal social attitude and living tolerance, but it is also an expression of great appreciation for our peoples, who make our country more colorful, kind and culturally rich. And so that this can be maintained in the future, we see in the budget € 3 868 000 we want to make available to our peoples. I know that you have a problem with the BZÖ and the FPÖ, but this will not narrow our practices here. [[Abg. Markowitz: colleague, yesterday you were more honest!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Inlander]] I would like to take the opportunity to thank myself, especially the voluntary representatives of our peoples who do valuable work. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As a representative of Parliament, we have adopted the People's Group Act this year, in which we have discussed an important still open area with our groups in Slovenia, even now with the settlement of the local map issue. [[Abg. Petzner: We need to talk about this even more precisely!]] I do not want to thank you, Mr State Secretary, for having succeeded in solving this long-term conflict, together with the peoples. Now we've got a new People's Group Law to review. This People's Group Act is now being discussed by the parties, after there have been many, many conversations with representatives of the ethnic groups, with government representatives. I am confident that there are still outstanding points in consensus, because the peoples and above all the support of our groups in Austria, I hope, are outside the party-political dispute. [[Abg. Markowitz: Only in consensus!]] That is why I am very glad that we succeeded in maintaining budget resources for our groups at least to the same extent as last year and the same as we had this year. And I am sure that we have also made an important contribution to cultural diversity in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14288	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14309	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government, the People's Procuratorate and the Court of Auditors! In the Budget Committee, we have also discussed the necessary extension of the public prosecutor's audit competence. Mr Stefan has already mentioned it. With the exclusions of the last 20 years, very important areas of sovereignty have been lost to Parliament in the sense of the power of examination, that is to say, almost withdrawn. This also meant that those who had to deal with these institutions – i.e. with the ÖBB, with the ASFINAG, with the universities, with the federal theatres and so on – were deprived of the possibility of complaints and also the possibility of showing abuses. In my opinion – and I believe we are all in agreement – the most appropriate control body continues to be the public prosecutor’s office. It is no coincidence that in two thirds of all European countries, despite Distributing these distributed institutions can continue to be examined by the public prosecutors, i.e. ombudsmen and the institutions concerned, but not in Austria. That is, 50 distributed institutions will not be examined. This has two consequences: Firstly, these institutions are unfairly treated, who could make their complaints here free of charge and very low-rate and have been protected, now only more able to bring their concerns through courts. That means they have to go to the lawyer, to court. On the one hand, this has the consequence that costs are incurred, and on the other hand, there are extremely long procedural periods, and most of them do not. The second, probably even more important consequence is that where no abuses are detected, there can be no improvements either, or they only happen very poorly and slowly. That means, for me and for many of us, of course, the question arises: Why can legal bodies with public tasks not be publicly audited by the Public Prosecutor's Office? There are two counter-arguments I have heard. One counter-argument is: There could then be numerous complaints, perhaps even a flood of complaint to the public prosecutors. That's what you can say: How has that been so far? What was it like before they were distributed out? And would it not be right where many complaints are in order to allow them to be allowed and then to have the consequences to do so? The second counter-argument is: It might be too expensive. So this is a budgetary statement that we have already discussed in committee. Solicitor Brinek answered us very clearly there: It would hardly be additional costs, because the public prosecutor has already examined the same staff and the same budget before disbursement. So there is no argument against this extension, except the fear that any things could be discovered that are better hidden. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe there is a need for reform here. And if the Austrian Parliament is forcing itself to give up this need for reform, and there is a corresponding expansion, then Austria could make a reform ranking from 17 to 16 in the reform ranking. Get up there, and that would be in all our interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14366	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14388	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear People's Lawyers! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! At Mr Maij-Weggen's speech by Mr Maizovits – I do not know where he is right now, perhaps went out; ah, there you are; servus!- I'm glad you're here. – I really felt his passion yesterday. You were concerned that something was going on in this area. Nor was there any real sympathy for Minister Darabos in the speech. Today I have noticed that you have read your speech without emotion, even though the groups of people are an important concern for us and we also need to discuss it here, especially as regards the Slovenians, how we can continue in the area together. One issue that I naturally have to address when we talk about the budget and about the Volksanwälte – we have already discussed it in the Budget Committee – is that important tasks will come to the public prosecutor's office, very many cases to be solved. And, of course, this is also about the budget. That is absolutely clear once. As far as the budget is concerned, their breakdown has changed. It was then, of course, that when you compare the last three years, for example, the amounts are quite different. Nevertheless, I have to say one thing: Of course, you too, Mrs Brinek, have contributed to this. These are the "work performances by third parties", where you have explained to us in the Committee that they are maintenance. Then I asked: Why is this €386 000 a year at once? You answered me: This is the maintenance of the house, which is about heating et cetera. But then we found that there is a separate post “Containing Buildings. ” I do not wish to condemn you against a flat-rate sentence if I insist: Well, these are two posts that you could of course count together, and then it's about 500 000 €. This is one of the biggest posts of the public prosecutor's office, and I can't assume that you really believe it's just about maintenance. There will probably be another post under it. So here I would like to see a precise breakdown of this in the future. I think that is also in your mind, because then everyone knows from the beginning what the maintenance costs are, what work services are spent on by third parties or whether they are about ads and so on. It is also about the fact that no additional posts appear, such as the “public work” below, for example. This item has only been available for two years – € 50 000 a year. That is why we are already talking about well over €500 000, a stately amount, which of course should also be used specifically. I am truly grateful to the Court of Auditors for the documents we always receive. They are very clear and really show us where you can put on the spasm. In this respect, I shall also put forward a motion for a resolution later on. The Court of Auditors really does a lot of work with the few employees it employs. That is why I would also like to see the anniversary celebration in Parliament cost €233,000, which was certainly not cheap either. All in all, I must say that in the future we should try to reduce the costs of any kind of celebration that may be very important. I have looked at the celebrations and their costs in recent years. There's been a lot of spending here: New Year's reception of the Federal Government 55 000 €; reception at the Kreisky event 106 000 €; the women's report alone costs 180 000 €. These are absolutely things where savings potential exists. Do you really want to save? We've heard this today. The Federal Chancellor has now set up a page at Facebook, Twitter et cetera. Every Austrian, every citizen around the world does it. However, a separate agency has been set up here. This cost €180 000 in just two months. Seven employees only take care of the site and that at just two German chancellors a day. I don't know what the seven employees are doing all the time. When I consider that President Obama himself is twittering and personally writing things in, I think this is a pure waste of money, and I don't know what's so funny about it. In times when you ask us to insert and save a debt brake, it's a pure waste of money that nobody understands. You will have to explain this to the citizens outside that you simply throw the money out of the window. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: You don't think that's serious about Obama typing it in itself!]] One point that is very important to me is the administrative reform, the points where we can already save. The Court of Auditors has listed these wonderfully, and it is also true that in June, red and black announced to the IMF that one must save in the area and that this is a ticking time bomb. That is why I put forward a motion for a resolution by Mr Markowitz, colleagues: ‘The Federal Government is invited to implement the 315 individual proposals of the Court of Auditors, which it has set out in its letter ‘Administrative reform II’ of the series ‘positions 2009/1’, during this legislative period.’ This is so that we can make the right savings so that we do not impose additional burdens on the Austrian population. I see Nicken at the SPÖ and hope that you will support our motion for a resolution. After all, my colleagues, Mr Krainer and Mr Krainer, have spoken in this direction in the Committee. Their statements were quite clear that we must save in the area. All you have to do is agree, and we can do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14440	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14495	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14516	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! We are talking about the budget today and we know that it will be obsolete in January. We do not know at all what measures we will take, what responsibilities will come from the EFSF and what Greece aid will come to us. We already know that the figures we are discussing and discussing today will not remain that way. And the savings that we will all have to decide on together will affect families, will concern pensioners, caregivers, single teachers, so also the women. I am already on my subject, namely the women's budget. Mrs Wurm has said that the budget of the Minister for Women is very good. In part, I'll give you the right to: Women's promotion projects must be supported. Women's homes are also to be supported. I know about their need, because I have visited those in Tyrol who visit all the relevant institutions. I've seen the employees working there, with which Elan is working, and how they often hit their borders, because the budget is so short. That's what I really have to say: I would like to express my thanks to the women working in these advisory bodies. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] Madam Minister, unfortunately I cannot spare you a criticism of this budget. You didn't work very well in your resort. You have also covered your budget. If you are allowed to believe in the request, you have had to resolve deposits of € 758,000 and, for example, use the campaign “Real Men Go in Karenz” which is more than questionable. [[Abg. Singer: I think so too! She was very bad already!]] I mean, this money would certainly have been better used elsewhere. The campaign didn't leave everyone in the ear. Mrs Marek has already mentioned this: They still owe us detailed planning. You said you would like to inform us in December. I am now giving you something on the way, namely a motion for a resolution on the provision of funds for a study on forced marriage. I'm bringing him in here now: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Women and Public Service is invited to provide funding for a study on forced marriage as part of the detailed planning for 2012.” Such a study already exists in Germany. This has brought a great deal of insight, and I would ask you to take this along and perhaps consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14567	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is being negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14621	Mr Grosz spoke on business. I give him the floor and recall the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14648	Mr President. We are proposing that the Minister of Finance should be quoted. It is a good tradition of the House that, in the case of budget debates, in addition to the ministries concerned, whose budget we are discussing – now the Supreme Institutions, the Federal Chancellor's Office, represented by the Minister of Women, Public Prosecutors and Court of Auditors – at least a representative of the Ministry of Finance is present. This is, among other things, the Minister of Finance, who has said herself today, remains here, because she also represents the Vice-Chancellor in good coordination. Those were their words. The Minister for Finance is not present, I note, nor is there any State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. And that is why we are calling for the citation of the Minister for Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14685	Mr Haubner spoke on another speech on business. I'll give it to him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14709	High house! It is true that Mrs Minister is present on the topic of Supreme Institutions. I think the Federal Government is highly qualified, and the Secretary of State is here too. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators are just entering the meeting room]] The Minister of Finance has already proved that she – the Minister of Finance was here too. Mr Grosz, I think if not even Your clubman is present, then this quotation is a farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14739	Mr Pendl also spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14764	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are at the budget chapter Oberste Organe and Bundeskanzleramt. More than that there is a minister, the State Secretary, the President of the Court of Auditors and the Volksanwälte cannot be required. [[Abg. Grosz: The State Secretary was not here before!]] So there is everything that belongs to these budget chapters, and I see no need to vote on such an amendment at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14805	Mr Pendl, I must add that this request is in accordance with the rules of procedure and is acceptable, and I will therefore leave it to the vote. If you would like to agree with Mr Grosz's request to quote Mrs Bundesminister für Financien, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We're continuing with the list of speakers. Next speaker: Mr Brosz. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14848	Mr President. This was a good indication of the form of debates that are taking place. We are now also discussing the topic of media from the Federal Chancellery. Now I'm glad you're right to be here as a representative. [[towards Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek]] However, the government would not be in a bad position if the ministers or members of the government whose chapters are on the government bank would be useful, because we are probably... [[Call to the SPÖ:State Secretary is here anyway!]] Yes, if he is there, it is good, but it is of course not particularly favourable for the discussion if the appropriate Secretary of State or Secretary of State is not here. [[Call the SPÖ:Does that have to be so?]] You also have to sometimes... – Is okay, this can be divided at least in such a way that, if necessary, the chapters that are to be treated now could be used half-way. In the general debate, the subject of media was not so strongly present anyway. So let's say that between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. a media-state secretary is probably to be expected to attend a debate in Parliament, or maybe he should consider whether he has chosen the right profession. All right, I'm talking about media without the Secretary of the Media and without the Federal Chancellor. I suppose that's something that's being handed over to him. You can also get off the silent post. The subject of media is important in so far as it continues in this budget, which has been remembered last year. There is a reduction in press promotion, and this is remarkable in that, of course, the debate that took place this summer on the issue of advertising, media policy, buying reporting, which will partly also be in the committee of inquiry, since it is directly involved. So it's going on. Press promotion is further shortened. At the same time, the advertising budget of the Federal Government remains stable. I have to ask the question whether this is an adequate response to the debate. I mean, it would have needed a sign, too. I am very excited about how to deal with debt brakes then with the government's advertisements, because apparently can be saved everywhere, social benefits are not a subject that is all relatively loose, but the self-stage as a government appears to be out of dispute and is sacrosanct. There are increases in recent years. Mr Oellinger was one of those who took a closer look at this. He has calculated that we have increased rates in this area since 2000, which represent approximately three to four times the advertising volume. So, apparently, money printing has no problems and can continue. I would have liked to ask the Secretary of State, if he were there, how the media transparency law is going on. We got it at the end of September, I think there was on 27. September – the club people are not here right now, Mr. Kopf is here – a round of negotiations. In the end, I asked myself when you could expect us to continue to speak to the media transparency law. ==References== It's called September, in about two weeks. So that would have been mid-October. Now we have mid-November. It seems technically impossible for Parliament to stay in the planned period until the end of the year. The idea would have been to create transparency in this area. There are also some interesting approaches that we also support, for example with regard to the question of ownership of media. [[Abg. Head: Unfortunately, that only supports you!]] Yes, it may be, but you may still be able to continue the discussion at one level. I think it is urgently necessary that this media transparency law comes and also comes relatively quickly. I would also have liked to ask the Secretary of State how the Ministry or its place of business will come to the budget for some of these responses. In itself it is a good instrument, short budget requests – four days time, then the answer. The problem is that some of the answers are only very salopp. I asked, for example, how much is budgeted for ads. €3.8 million stands in there. However, there is another item, so-called work performances from third parties, which is spent at almost €17 million, and in the answer it appears that this is intended to pay for ads in addition to a whole list of other things, among other things. So this is another budget item that does not appear in the reply. It is difficult to calculate from these budget data, which is really what is budgeted for. The second remarkable answer was on the subject of social web costs of the Federal Chancellor, who has been since 26. October on Facebook, Twitter and what do I know where is still present? There is an answer to the question of costs that it is exactly €47 000 in the year. I'm just asking the question: If, according to media reports, nine persons from the Federal Chancellor's Office accompany the website of Mr. Federal Chancellor and the social web appearances, then the maximum number of jobs is 47 000 €. I therefore assume that staff costs are not taken into account. In the form described, the answer to these budget requests does not make any real sense. If you ask what the budget for the social web appearance is, and then you only get the costs for the homepage, but not the personnel costs, that is actually more one – almost I would have said: Provocation – non-serious response. If Parliament grants this instrument, we can expect a reply that is half equivalent to the facts. That was not the case in the cases described.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14920	The next item is Mr Grosz. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14941	High house! Mr Lopatka of the ÖVP has justifiably said today: The situation is too serious to bluff! – That’s perfect! But the situation is too serious to lie, ladies and Lord of the House! And so I quote Ferenc Gyurcsány, the Prime Minister of Hungary, who, with his statement in 2009, became so symptomatic of the Austrian Federal Government. We get up in the morning and lie, we lie in bed at night and lie, we face the mirror and lie, we only lied from morning to evening. - Quote. That's what Ferenc Gyurcsány said. That's why he had to resign. By the way, he is a Social Democratic from Hungary. He said this as true self-esteem at an internal party event. And this one sentence is so symptomatic in view of the debt of the Republic of Austria for today's budget debate. The government says: It's all right, we live in Saus and Braus, the pots are filled, and now we need a debt brake, so maybe in 2017 we'll think about saving! How has the debt of this Republic developed? – 1980: €27 billion in debt. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, but also Austrians, who have followed this debate on ORF III, I know, €27 million is very abstract for a person who was still used to the schilling. But it's a lot of money. In 2010, we had a government debt of €205 billion – black on white. If we are honest and take into account the debts of the communities, the countries, the ÖBB, the ASFINAG and so on, we have the inconceivable debt of € 270 billion, which extorts us and all future generations like a millstone. There is no stability in the budget, no stability in the budget. The Austrian People's Party, which has been in government responsibility for 25 years, is responsible for this record debt. [[Mr Rädler and Mr Lopatka.]] At the same time, however, it is represented on the government bank by its members, who tell us from above: Of course you have to save in this country at last! Mr Lopatka! The problem is really too serious to bluff, but it is also too serious to lie. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is too serious to keep people in this country dry about the actual seriousness of this situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] They are now spending money that the Austrian National Bank can no longer print in the next 30 years. We're already that far. They spend money that is not even printed. They spend money for which there is no equivalent. They lower €30 billion in Greece – money that you haven't had since. You have not only blamed the next generation, but you have led Austrians, young people, into a debt tower for the next 40 years, for expenses you are working today. But then say goodbye. They will have to eliminate these debts as if they were protesters from the government, and future governments, future managers, and future taxpayers. We do not participate, and I say to you that this Federal Government deserves mistrust. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15041	The request for distrust just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15098	Mr Grosz, while you have repeatedly tried to deal with the embroidered words through quotations, you have repeatedly used the terms “lying” and “lying” outside of the quotation as an accusation to the Federal Government – and I have listened carefully. [[Abg. Grosz: Quote! I just quoted!]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is actually rare!]] For the multiple use of these expressions I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Bureau) But you could have saved the call for order!]] The next speaker is Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15166	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to highlight an area which has not yet been mentioned in this debate, namely the public service. Public service is not only in a phase of human change, it has clearly been lacking in this budget. We know that the public service has a high level of human ageing and that in this context we will have very large retirements. – Mr Pendl, please be careful! I should like to point out something that I have mentioned several times at this point as an example to show how precarious the staff situation is in the meantime: In the field of executives, about 10,000 officials – that is one third of all now employed police officers – will retire by 2020. This is not at all taken into account in this budget. Although there are the staff increases announced by the Federal Government of salopp of 1,000 police more by the year 2013. But this does not cover this retirement leave, but just the staff needs we are actually drawing from. That means we really have to do with a threatening staff collapse. This is not addressed at all in this budget, nor is there any financial measures taken to counter it. If you continue to spin on these threads, however, this means that not only does additional staff need it, but also that there must be technical and task-oriented resource distribution, which creates the legal framework for how to proceed in the various areas of public service in the future. We know that teachers are affected. There have already been approaches to the creation of a teacher's right, which, although announced, has not yet been implemented. In other important areas of the public service, namely the executive, but also the army, such initiatives are completely lacking and have been required by the staff for years. For this reason, I should like to make a request at this point to focus on these legitimate demands here again: – This is an important request, Mr Pendl! [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] [[Abg. Pendl: Yes, I know!]] I think the police and the German army are doing great work for our people, not only when it comes to maintaining security, but also when it comes to disaster prevention and disaster management. I can invite you to support this request. Let us give our police officers and our army members, in the form of their own executive service law and in the form of their own military rights, the appreciation they would truly need in order to carry out their duties. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15233	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15290	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15311	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Much has been said about the women's budget today. In fact, over €10 million so long to speak... – Well. 10 million € are available, the budget has remained constant, it has remained consistently low. As it is divided, the Minister of Women has already carried out today. It is used for women's advisory services, for intervention agencies against violence. That's good and right. However, almost 12 percent of the budget is also spent on advertisements, advertisements and campaigns. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! In my view, this amount should be reconsidered in view of the relatively small budget. A previous speaker has also mentioned this and criticised that 12 percent of €10 million is only too much for advertising and advertisements. Mrs Minister, you should reconsider these expenditures, these budget items. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It also addressed measures taken to reduce male and female pay-offs in order to improve the income situation of women in Austria. These measures have not yet been taken. Mrs Minister, you admitted that to the committee. What are we talking about? – For example, we are talking about the pay calculator, the income transparency, the mandatory salary data for job inserates. To this end, I would like to point out that your own club did not even comply with these requirements when he recently gave up a post for the SPÖ Parliamentary Club. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you have to get your own nose! Companies require you to make mandatory salary information at job inserates, and you yourself do not comply with this regulation. Then it is no wonder that this is not implemented by the companies either. For our part, we have repeatedly put proposals on the tapet, we have repeated them over and over again, such as the abolition of the limit on child care, or the introduction of a minimum legal wage of €1 300 gross, €1 000 net. However, I think that this amount should also be considered if one looks at how prices rise, how the fees, heating costs, rental costs are increased. In the long term, a minimum wage of €1 300 will no longer be sufficient in the long run, and we need to open a discussion process on a higher minimum wage of €1 500, for example. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I do not agree with the Minister's commitment in any way, but it is too little if you are dependent on other ministries and always refers to having talks. You have today addressed the emergency home for women affected by forced marriage. This is set out in the Government Convention, you have been negotiating with the various finance ministers since 2008 about the financing of this emergency apartment, and until today they do not exist. You've announced today that this emergency apartment will come next year. However, from the ÖVP side we hear that the money has already been made available by the Minister for the Interior, but it has not yet been implemented. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is an example of your efforts not bearing fruit and not leading to the goal. I would also have expected more commitment when it comes to the recruitment of women's and girls' promotion programmes, such as “FIT” or “mute!”. I have a letter from Dr. Schipper, who tells us, the women's speakers, the scientific speakers and the educational speakers that the Austrian Academy of Sciences will have to stop the women's funding programme for financial reasons next year. Today, I have not heard from the speakers of the government groups what they say about whether they have already contacted and whether they will work to reduce this misdevelopment and continue this project. This would be in the sense of Austrian women, because it would be really important to maintain this project. Finally, I should like to ask you to look at this letter and perhaps also with Mr Dr. Get in touch with the creator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15375	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15396	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Austria is providing a centre of competence for control and economic potential collection, called the Court of Auditors. This is a very plausible attitude and also a good thing, but unfortunately this is treated very stepmotherly by the government parties on and on and off. Everyone is always talking about the recognition to be heard by the Court of Auditors, but the facts look quite different, namely when it comes to implementing really fundamental and profound results of the Court of Auditors. I would like to speak very briefly to the next committee. This is proof of how to speak and do nothing in the final effect. We should deal with very intensive and extensive chapters next week – it is about manager salaries, about family-related services, about weather services, about the Parliament's homepage – but see, none of the ladies and gentlemen of the government team is willing to come to the committee. No one is willing to discuss with us how the findings of this could be drawn from it in order to work better, more economically and efficiently in the future, and how to spread the individual sub-areas. That's the truth, that's a sad circumstance. If I am speaking today of Mr Gahr as saying that the administrative reform is being carried forward very intensively, I am afraid that Mrs Finanz- Minister hypnotized. I imagine this pretty scary and express my compassion at this point, normally one would have to react very angryly to it. A small outlook on the future activities of the Court of Auditors: The expansion of test skills is always a topic; the communities with over 10,000 inhabitants have already been discussed. There is now a cross-sectional check; I am already excited about the first results. But it's still a little bit lousy. For a long time, we demand that the Court of Auditors can also examine companies with more than 25 percent of the Federal Government's participation – currently an audit is only possible from 50 percent federal participation – as well as companies for which the Federal Government has assumed liability. We won't let go and stay there. I would like to make the following request to this effect: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At this point a warm thanks to the Court of Auditors and its staff, who always provides very competent reports. I hope you continue to act like this in your work and in your competence. We appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15468	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15539	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15560	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, I also welcome the Volksanwälte, which I will deal with in the future too! The budget debate is also about the correct use of the budget resources made available, so it is also about the budget resources for the Austrian public prosecutor's office. Mrs. Volksanwalt, Mag. Stoisits, I can speak to you: What I note very much about the figures you are presenting, is that there is a significant increase in the number of complaints in the area of asylum, which you may still be able to explain to me today. I'm allowed to bring the following key figures: Generally speaking, the number of asylum applications is falling. This also has to do with the fact that the BZÖ at the time, in the context of government participation, has provided for a strengthening of the asylum laws. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Listen to the numbers! In 1999, there were still 20 129 applications, in 2010 the number has already fallen by almost 50 percent, namely to 11 012 applications. In other words, there is a significant decline in the number of applications. At the same time, we have a significant increase in complaints to the People's Procuratorate since Ms. Stoisits is a Volksanwaltin. She is such a kind of "Mother Courage of the asylum seekers" in the public prosecutor's office. I hope you've read Bert Brecht. In 2009, there were 24 complaints in the area of asylum applications, in 2010 there were already 212, and for this year, the number of complaints is estimated to be 1,000. That is to say, there is a 50 percent drop in applications and at the same time an increase in complaints to the public prosecutor's office by forty times. Can you explain this to me, Mrs Stoisits? – I can explain it to you. We have received information from BZÖ from the People's Procuratorate – and this will be the subject of numerous questions and other initiatives – according to which You're not running anything but complaint-phishing, Mrs. Volksanwälter Stoisits. You make a complaint-Phishing and do not try to represent the Austrians about your activity, which would actually be your job, but rather to give them a stay. Ms. Volksanwaltin Stoisits, you are trying to increase your appeal by working with clubs in the background. Their contacts with these clubs are already the subject of the People's Procuratorate. You lobby for these associations, you misuse your mandate as a Volksanwälter in order to guard and force these club activities, the activities of these NGOs, where these clubs have no other task than to screw the asylum figures as far up as possible. Otherwise, one cannot explain this increase, and these concrete indications are available. She, Mrs Mag. Stoisits, write themselves in your report 2010 very proud of these increases, of which associations you were visiting everywhere, at ZEBRA for example. They regularly go to Traiskirchen and advertise for it and tell the people: Complain, come to me, I'll do this for you! – That’s not your job as a Volksanwälter! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who pays all this? The State!]] The Austrian tax money must not be used for this, ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that this is the case here. [[BZÖ and Abg. Singer.]] But this is not the only case, and now I come to a specific case where we also have to deal with a suspected abuse of office by you, Mrs. Stoisits, in the People's Procuratorate. Abuse of office by a popular lawyer! We have file notes and documents which record the following: In a specific case of an asylum seekers, they have examined a complaint about the behaviour and procedure of the Federal Police Directorate Graz; in concrete terms, the complaint concerns the duration of the procedure, the duration of the application. Your employees, your officials, have come to realize that the Federal Police Department of Graz has acted correctly and correctly, on which you, as a popular attorney, have then given a direction – and this instruction is before – against the file material that is available, against the fact-finding substrate, the substance of the matter, namely the instruction that there is a misconception to be made here, although you have known that the authority has acted correctly. This is abuse of power, Mrs Stoisits, and you will also have to answer for it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Punishment!]] It is not the duty of a public prosecutor to blackmail authorities that act correctly and to issue instructions to judge authorities that have nothing to blame at all, just to provide an asylum seekers with a residence permit that has actually not deserved him and has no right to stay here in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! We will provide you with this information here and today, and They will still have to deal closely with this case. We'll take care of that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Punishment!]] And in the future, Mrs Stoisits, we will look to you exactly what you are doing and perform about your great gage in the public prosecutor's office, and how your complaints and complaints figures come about, which contacts, which networks there are here in the background with various clubs, all in the green environment, and which counterparts are provided. It also means that you have already docked on such an association for your future professional activity according to your public prosecutor's office. Again: It can't be that Austrian tax money is used for the mismanagement of such a popular lawyer!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15646	Mrs Volksanwalt, Dr. Brinek, spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15691	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! As the current President of the Public Prosecutor's Office, I would like to comment on the questions raised. Since 2008, there has been the asylum court. The way from the Bundesasylamt to the asylum court is one that in many dozens of complaints that I myself experience in speaking, shows that not even all old cases have been processed and that there is a passing of time. Just as the People's Procuratorate takes action in other court proceedings, so does the Asylum Court. [[Abg. Petzner: That's all a shame!]] No, Mr Petzner, read Please, just the laws! They're, like you used to say, keeping up. Laws and regulations must be complied with! [[Abg. Petzner: But don't make complaints about the way Mrs Stoisits does! She's making complaints! Complaint-Phishing makes her!]] And according to the federal constitution, someone may complain if, in this connection, he suspects that he is in court. And if we examine this case and find out that it was a mess, then we do it regardless of which popular attorney is responsible for business and labour distribution, Mr Deputies. I would ask the honourable Members to take note of this. The law obliges us to follow every complaint. [[Abg. Petzner: The law does not require you to advertise at Traiskirchen!]] And we will do so, even if some Members do not agree. The law and the citizens are far too important to us. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I can also tell you that in the asylum court proceedings, a Federal Police Directorate does not occur at all. It is necessary to take into account the legal requirements which mean: Anyone can complain. Everyone is called people, people, people who stay here and are not Austrian citizens. I would ask that if the House comes to a different opinion, then the law would have to be amended. At present – and I say it again – I myself am someone who is constantly responding to dozens of complaints related to asylum proceedings in the case of spokes across Austria. And the evidence should lead to the removal of these malaises. Furthermore, I would like to refer to a comment by Mr Markowitz, who, unfortunately, is not here now, but the answer is also raised to you by the Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Tamandl, all of you – a question which is related to a unification under federal budgetary law, namely to bring together work performances by third parties and remunerations to individuals or companies, and thus to achieve a uniforming. I know here with the President of the Court of Auditors a sense of meaning, an assessment that this has, of course, reduced the comprehensibleness. [[Abg. Petzner: Mrs. Stoisits is doing an abuse of office in the public prosecutor's office!]] Laws also apply to us, including the management of our budgetary provisions and budgets, so that – I may inform the other Members of the House – the question raised: What is hidden behind work performance for third parties?, can answer as follows: First of all, not ads, second, not contracts for employees, but, for example, expected expenditure representing this sum: Expenditure on the Bundes-ELAK: € 135 000, BRZ – Adjustment of the software stand in the IT sector: 60 000 €, external cleaning company: €42 000, benefits to the Federal Accounting Agency: 35 000 €, Translations: €30 000, BRZ – maintenance of IT equipment: 25 000 €, maintenance, inspection and service in the house – i.e. fire extinguishers, lights, telephone system, machines, curtains –: 17 000 €, homepage maintenance, secure data transmission with authorities and graphics services: 15 000 €, SAP licenses MB-SAP, HV-SAP: 14 000 €, various small items, distances at company services: 9 000 €, occupational medical care: 4000 €. Thus, we come to expected expenditure of €386 000. I would like to point out once again that those who did not want to co-write and are still interested, Mrs Tamandel's chairman of the budget committee has the written answer that you can certainly get – or have already received – in case of demand. [[Abg. Petzner: Perhaps something to Mrs Stoisits, for her abuse of office!]] By the way, I thank all those who today have acknowledged, respectfully and appreciatively expressed themselves through verbal or non-verbal reports and statements on the public prosecutor's office. I would like to thank you for the staff in the People's Procuratorate, because we three alone could not do the job if we did not have the employees. I am very happy to say this and look forward to further cooperation, especially with regard to the new tasks that are to come. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15792	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke on another opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15813	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking all of you, after the Court of Auditors' budget is on the agenda, for your excellent cooperation in the Court of Auditors' Committee, but also for your excellent cooperation when it comes to discussing the Court of Auditors' reports here in plenary. In the context of the debate on the debt brake, it has been shown that the Court of Auditors is constantly considering that it is necessary to use public funds cheaply, economically and effectively. He pointed out that sustainable funding was a prerequisite for tackling the long-term reforms and developing structures. In the context of the debate, it is therefore of particular concern to the Court of Auditors to point out that, according to these figures, namely in the Federal Financial Framework Act 2012 to 2015, the Federal Financial Act 2012 which is now in place for decision-making, and in the Stability Programme 2010 to 2014, this requirement for sustainable financing is currently not met, because a structural deficit is foreseen in the years 2012 to 2014: in 2012 of minus 2.4 percent, in 2013 of minus 2.1 percent, in 2014 of minus 1.9 percent. This means that there is a billion-height need for consolidation. However, in the next few years, these figures will also exceed the permanently acceptable re-indebtedness. This also shows the figures of the Federal Government's strategy report, which shows that between 2010 and 2015 the government's debt will rise by 53 billion. That is, by 4.5 billion more than in the period 2005 to 2010, in which the financial crisis has also taken place. This demonstrates the urgent need for action, and for this reason the Court of Auditors is extremely positive in terms of debt brakes, because it creates more liability for the federal government, countries, but also communities in terms of consolidation. On the other hand, this is also positive, as measures in this package are also provided for in the direction of the budgetary law of the countries and municipalities. As far as budgetary law in the field of the countries and communities is concerned, we need urgent action after the current accounting system does not provide sufficient management bases, after the current accounting system does not allow for a faithful presentation of the financial situation of the countries and communities. We do not have a consolidated asset account, including the distributed units. We don't have sufficient power to comment on camera music at the moment. That is, without additional information, you are unable to recognize all of us, the essential results. And we don't have any... the comparability of the individual accounts by the disunity of the assets, the uneven presentation of the debts or the evidence of liability. In this context, we need more clarity and transparency by comparing the data, checking and at the same time booking practice, including in terms of task-related contingency. We need a description of the true financial situation, including the results of the distributed units. We need more completeness in the accounting system, including the liabilities and future burdens. For this reason, the Court of Auditors' audits have repeatedly shown the need for harmonisation of the accounting system, and it will also be necessary in connection with the debt brake to bring about this harmonisation. In this context, I would also like to mention – as the Federal Minister has already said in her contribution to the debate – that Austria's budgetary law is a benchmark internationally. However, this benchmark is not sufficient to ensure that this budgetary law is also introduced in the countries and communities. However, when it comes to the debt brake, we also need action in medium-term planning: At present, the medium-term planning, the planning documents of the local authorities in terms of information content, period and objectives differ. We have no continuous rolling planning and no in-depth voting. At the same time, the various medium-term plans are not included in the stability programme. And last but not least, we also have different methods of calculation and content within the EU and at the EU level, thus affecting the planning and control values. That means: We need a coordinated annual roll-over in the direction of a debt brake. We need a planning horizon based on the Federal Financial Framework Act. We need Austrian-wide minimum requirements for the medium-term planning to be defined in order to introduce a cross-regional, interconnected and coordinated medium-term planning. The improvement of transparency in the area of budgetary management is a prerequisite for planning and governance responsibility in order to also introduce the budgetary discipline to which Austria has become internationally known. However, the basis for ensuring a macroeconomic balance and at the same time achieving sustainable budgets is also the implementation of the long-term reforms, as in order to be able to implement the planned debt brakes, the structural deficit would have to be reduced from €9 billion in 2010 to €1.5 billion in 2017. In this context, however, I refer to the stability programme 2010 to 2014, where more than 6 billion structural deficits are still planned for 2014. That is why negotiations on the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 and on the Stability Pact should include concrete, sustainable structural measures involving federal, state and local authorities. Furthermore, until the debt brake entered into force in 2017, a decommissioning path would also be required, as is the case in Germany. End Degradation path, which represents how one actually wants to achieve the structural deficit, as it is indicated, of 0.35 percent in 2017. At the same time, it would also be necessary to ensure that in the transitional period until 2017, there will not be any return to what has been done in the past, namely outsourcing public debt. In this context, I would also like to mention that the Court of Auditors will certainly carry out its task, as in the past, provided that the necessary legal possibilities and instruments are available to it. This was not sufficiently ensured in the last Stability Pact 2011. It was originally foreseen that the Court of Auditors would draw up an opinion on each deviation from the agreed stability objectives in order to draw the necessary conclusions from this opinion. This was contained in the assessment draft. However, the last draft provided that the Court of Auditors should draw up an opinion if there is a ‘probable undue deterioration over the agreed stability targets’. When there is “a suspected undue deterioration”, this definition remains open. So I assume that an opinion in this respect, as is foreseen, can never be drawn up or an opinion depends on the other opinion, but certainly does not result in the derogation being established. I would like to point out once again that appropriate measures should be taken with a view to introducing a debt brake. I would also like to point out - it was also said in the debate - that the Court of Auditors is doing everything possible to make use of the existing budget resources. We have implemented structural reforms. We have implemented organizational reforms. You yourself have seen that we have significantly increased the output of both consulting and auditing services, although we have fulfilled and even over-fulfilled all measures in the field of savings programme of the Federal Government. We will carry out more than 100 audits in 2012, we will present the income report, we will present the federal accounts. As the debt brake points out the issue of administrative reforms, I would like to point out that the next edition of our brochure, which sets out the Court of Auditors' positions on administrative reform, is imminent. In other words, it will be allocated to you in the next or next week, and I can only ask you for sustainable funding: Look at the proposals! That's where I come back to Mr. Zanger: It is not the Court of Auditors who is called upon to implement proposals, but it is yours. And if cooperation works as well in the future as in the past, I am sure that we can take the necessary measures in cooperation. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15912	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[14:37:53]] UG 11: Internals
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15933	We shall now come to the negotiation of Division 11: Internally. Mr Vilimsky spoke. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15959	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me get rid of two things here in the inconsistency of the afternoon. The first goes towards the government bank, but also the coalition groups. We are probably debating a budget in depth and width here for four days, where we know from the outset, not a digit behind the comma will change. I think it would be good if you were willing to have at least there and there a little spin on a wheel where you're trying to find political cuts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And it would be good if, regardless of what group a proposal comes from, you would be prepared to debate it seriously and allow for an amendment. The second proposal goes to the Federal Minister, whom I would like to remind her that her predecessor, the current Minister for Finance Fekter, has invited the speakers of the political groups to the house and heard other opinions, at least before large decisions. I think it would be very good for the individual political issues, especially the important area of the internal, but in the pre-parliamentary area between the government and the speakers of the political groups, because it would certainly not be a disadvantage to recognise a good idea in the pre-parliamentary area, perhaps to negotiate it, and thus to be able to achieve something good for Austria, its people and also for security. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the matter itself: I do not want to start counting the peas in the budget chapter inside. I would just like to try to address a few differences here, on the basis of a parliamentary request from the Liberal Party, such as the promotion policy and thus the funding philosophy in the interior area. As a basis, I take into account the figures projected for 2012, which can still be supplemented, because even more funding can be considered. The first thing that strikes my eye is the Black Community in Upper Austria – now I assume that it will be Black Africans in Upper Austria and not the Black Community of your party environment in Upper Austria. There you can see a huge post, going very deep in the Caritas. One also sees a hugely large chunks concerning the deacony. And now I say that, if you look at the figures, namely the parallelity of the funding by the BMI and on the other hand by the European Union, it is very clear why a very economic interest in asylum and foreign policy, as it is currently being designed, is actually given. On the other hand, you will find “Women in the Trend”, specific women’s advice: 31 500 € of the resort that changes the owner there; “migrare”, center for migrants in Upper Austria, and so on, and so on. And it is in addition, I believe, that more than 100 individual posts, covering the most diverse areas and going to the immigrants' area, go to 80, 90 per cent, because also a post that is intended for the executive, namely the police choir, which is promoted with saying and writing €1,500, and the police music Vienna as second part receives funding from the BMI amounting to € 5 000. I see that there is a proportionality that does not correspond to our political will. We want more resources not only to go into funding networks, but more resources to go to the domestic executives, more resources to create security in the country, instead of all those who [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] know how to get to the promotion cake, to think of it with large sums. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are massive increases in asylum and xenophobia in particular. Since the last foreign law package, expenditure in this area has increased by 27 percent. I do not know where Mr Petzner has the figures on asylum. The figures have increased significantly since the last foreign law package. This is also a central expression of our political will that we do not consciously create a situation where more and more funds are going into it, but rather manage this area extremely restrictively, and use the funds available not for ads of the resort that cost many hundreds of thousands of euros, but more to create security in the country, and perhaps to establish a system of premiums and remuneration for the executive, which has more than enough burden. There are real deficits – and not in the area of your home’s completely expanding funding policy. I would like to ask you to take this on the occasion of the budget debate. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16051	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16105	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16126	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vilimsky, yes, there have been these five-party talks. But they have not been accepted by the opposition – and for this reason that has been set. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Yes, because we should have been invited at the beginning!]] I'd like to say that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Harald, that's it. The Federal Minister certainly has nothing to do with the opposition. Today we are talking about a very encouraging budget: plus € 120 million. This means an increase of more than 5.7 percent from 2011 to 2012. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There was once an interior minister who invited all the political groups! That's what it's done!]] It can thus continue the successful path in the field of security, and I am very grateful to the Federal Minister for this negotiated budget. Of course, this budget also shows the high importance that security has in general for the Austrian People's Party and for our Federal Government. Of course, safety means quality of life and is an important factor for Austria's economic location. The security of the population has the highest priority in Austria – that was the case in the past, and it will also be so in the future. €2.47 billion is available for the interior sector. Nearly € 2 billion is used for security tasks. It can therefore be successfully continued the successful path in combating crime in all its facets and forms. It is important to me that the foundations for optimal police work are given. And, of course, I would like to thank the many police officers on this occasion for their very dedicated work on the security of the population. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The budget, of course, is also the basis for the continuation of the modernisations that have taken place in the past, in 2012 in the area of equipment, but also, of course, in the services. From the year 2000 to this year, 600 services have been renovated, rebuilt or newly established, and next year another 89 services are scheduled for modernisation. The successful use of the special commissions can be continued. These have worked very successfully last year and even this year. The expansion of the digital radio can be further driven. The fight against cybercrime is also a task that will have a high priority in the fight against crime in the future. And it can also continue the increase of staff in the way that more than 1,000 officials will be in the police service by the year 2013. So this budget is really a great throw for the interior. And one thing is also a very, very important aspect of this budget: The Federal Office for Asylum and Migration can also be implemented, and this is another important step in administrative reform. Not only was the merging of the guard bodies a big step in the field of administrative reform inside, but also the re-establishment of this Federal Office is an important aspect in the field of administrative reform. If this is brought together from 194 services to ten services, this is certainly an important contribution to the reduction of double-tracks and overlaps that exist so far. I think we're really on the right track. The Secretary of State also has 36 million € available, to add 5 million €. These funds are used in the area of language support, in cooperation with the Federal Government and countries. In the few months, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, he has done a great deal of work in this area, and I wish him a great deal of success in the area of integration, which will be a very important area within. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My previous speakers have already referred to the area of asylum and xenophobia. There are 152 million € available. The current quality can therefore also be maintained with increasing numbers in the field of asylum. We already know that there is a country where door and gate are open: Greece. All measures and efforts will be put in place, including at EU level, to stop them, and the Federal Minister will certainly address this at EU level. In this sense, I believe that we can talk about an excellent budget, and I thank you very much for this outcome of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16197	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Pilz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16221	Ladies and gentlemen! In five minutes you cannot refer to an entire budget of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. In our basic criticism that too little can be invested for police work, too little for police training and especially too little for the work of the criminal police, nothing has changed in recent years, even if the name signs, the ÖVP name signs are exchanged in the ministry. The problem is the same. The only problem I would like to address now is an acute threat, which I regret to say is that it is underestimated in the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs, and that is the threat posed by right-wing extreme terrorism. It is known to all of you what happened in the Federal Republic of Germany. It is known to all of you in what hairthrowing and worrying way the German Constitutional Protection has failed. But what we need to talk about is: We know, and not only the members of the secret subcommittee on the control of constitutional protection, but also the members of the Committee on the Interior and many other members of this House, as well as the officials of the Ministry of the Interior, know that the Austrian Constitutional Protection is neither able nor willing to observe the dangerous right-wing scene properly in Austria and where it is necessary to pursue. Constitutional protection in the Ministry of the Interior is completely blind for political reasons, for at least six years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to give you a few examples. Hungarian right-wing extremists, so-called Jobbik, have organised a demonstration in the city of Oberwart in all public with planted bayonets and in uniforms under the eyes of the authorities, in which they have called for a great Hungarian under the integration of the Burgenland. In addition, the officials of the Ministry of the Interior's Constitutional Protection have stood by, have watched and done nothing against right-wing Hungarian randals with weapons, in the middle of the guard! – To date, there is not even a procedure. The same thing: Right-wing extremist and neo-Nazitres in Upper Austria. Who's been persecuted? Journalists! Journalists have been monitored who have tried to document this meeting, and there has been police protection and constitutional protection for organized right-wing meetings. The Director of the Constitutional Protection himself is constantly bagatelling in the bodies of this House the danger of right-wing extreme terrorism, and we do not only know since the strange players and since the youth sins of the FPÖ-Obmann, which occurs in the far right scene, where there are groups that have access to weapons, and how far right-wing elements already work in the margins of the Austrian federal army and to this day are not removed. We know all of this, and we know that some traces lead to the Freedom Youth, other traces in the middle of the Freedom Party. [[Hö-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] And there is an order in the Ministry of the Interior not to investigate anything that leads towards the Freedom Party and all that leads to the connection of the Free Party with the extreme, terrorist-suspected groups. Madam Minister for the Interior, I would like to draw your attention to one point: It is your highest political responsibility, earlier than the German Constitutional Protection, to ensure that this violent, dangerous, terrorist scene in Austria is monitored in good time and prosecuted in time for police and judicial action! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We cannot wait until there are first attacks and first victims in Austria. [[Abg. Vock: Ebergassing, for example!]] I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: Stop impoverishing this danger, and finally order your officials to find out seriously and to prevent a serious danger to public security! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16278	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16323	So, on and on, you could all be polite and thank those who do the work for the Austrians. That's not even funny, believe me. We would like to thank our colleagues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government! Let me look at some of the important points in this budget chapter! Firstly, it is important that the Federal Government sends a signal that security in the Republic has an important role for the Federal Government. That is why, I believe, the budget in difficult times is quite remarkable, which is not a matter of course. I think that the money that is more available – my colleague Pilz, when you look at it, you can see it very well – for which the operational activity is planned and that it comes directly to the police doing the work. I am unwarranted and happy when the police reach a high, yes, very high education rate. We don't need to tell each other, but I just remember that in all the legislative projects that are necessary due to the development of time, including the potential for danger, we often had discussions that have gone so far as to disarm the police while the others wanted to upgrade them. We're moving in the middle of it, and that, I mean, with eye-size. And, my colleague, Pilz, that you must also give the police the necessary means, I think, is beyond dispute. I am pleased when we will then be discussing in committee and finally in plenary as far as the Security Police Act is concerned. However, I believe that it is also important, and this is not a matter of course that this Federal Government has taken precautions to ensure that there are 1 000 planned places net during this legislative period. Everyone's pretending to be nothing. 1 000 additional planning sites net in times like this are an excellent success. It is also not bad that we have already received some 330 jobs from Telekom to the Ministry of the Interior, which relieves the executive in the administrative field. These are, as I believe, all important, essential steps in the right direction. As far as the technical field is concerned, Mr Kößl has already mentioned it, so I want to save myself: It will improve technology in all these areas, improve infrastructure, improve services. As far as something is planned, I think, is really taken care of here. However, I would like to address another point that has been raised today in a completely different context, namely the number of asylums. Think back, how some of these have been partially interrupted and very ridiculously drawn to the installation of the asylum court! In the meantime, the asylum court is a success story, and at the turn of the year – not to interpret it, but to look at and inform, not only to interpret it! – the huge backpack will be prepared with everything that has stood up there, in a rule of law with an excellent result. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] [[Congratulations with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP]] There you can talk to the VwGH, with the VfGH, to whom you want to: That's it! That is why we should also be grateful to the President of the Asylum Court and its judges today. [[Abg. Grosz: Thank you!]] Excellent work has been done there, ladies and gentlemen, and particularly at a very high level as regards the rule of law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it will be to be discussed in the next few months and has already been mentioned that an essential step, not only in terms of administrative reform, but also in terms of operational matters, i.e. executives on the ground, should be taken. I am curious about the discussion, because at the moment there is no specialist at federal and national level who does not say: That's great. I am already looking forward to what is then drawn back to the hair in the discussion and is argued. But that's where all the political groups can get involved. An important contribution, a reduction in the number of services from 100 to ten, I think these are things that are simply necessary in today's time: bold, slender, promising, success-oriented. I would like to invite you to do this. [[Abg. Grosz: Slim administration!]] It is an important work for the Austrians. That doesn't mean it's not happening, it doesn't matter. – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16396	Before calling on the next speaker, I declare, on account of the accusation made by Mr Dr Pilz in the direction of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, that she has committed abuse of the office by claiming by Member Pilz that the Federal Minister for the Interior would have given an instruction not to investigate right-wing links, a call for order and ask you to take note of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: An order call from a right-wing extremist!]] [[Calls: That's incredible.]] Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler: 4 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: To the Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Westenthaler, you have already been called and are already at the speaker's desk. Please start your explanations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16468	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Congratulations to Mr Pilz. He goes back to the command calls and leads the list again. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] In short, two comments on the budget, Mrs Minister. Once again, the Phantom Federal Office for Asylum was enthusiastic about the media. That's what we've had, because that's what we're talking about. Mr Pröll, Minister of Finance, announced for 2010. This has already been announced by your predecessor, Mrs Fekter, for the year 2011, and now you announce it again in the course of the debate on the 2011 budget. I've made the effort and I've been looking for it, I just don't find it. Mrs Minister, the Federal Office for Asylum is not budgeted. And I'd really ask you: Where is it? Or isn't it 2012 at all? It may be that it may have been moved back to 2013. So the Neverending Story goes on, and it's not a lot of budget truth either, if you move it on from year to year. Second question: Your advertising kindness, namely to present yourself, your ads are known, Mrs Minister. They eagerly turn around hundreds of thousands of euros – my previous speaker has already announced this – ads. No budget items here either, not budgeted. We have made a written request. They answered us: Expenditure on advertising measures is not explicitly estimated in the Federal estimates 2012. – Where is it hidden, Mrs. Minister? Tell us! First: Where is it hidden? Secondly, How much do you plan for self-advertising to issue for ads next year? That would interest us too. But I would like to address a very different point today. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz stands at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Mag. Mikl- Leitner.]] Madam President, is there a coffee wreath?
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16517	Mr Pilz! Mrs. Federal Minister! We have agreed that there is no such talk between the government bank and MEPs. This is, as it were, an Ural agreement. We'll stay with him, too. If there has to be interim talks, please be on the edge – and not directly at the government bank. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16538	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to deal briefly with Mr Kurz, who has not known in the Committee on Budgets how high his budget is or where it stands. That's what he doesn't like. He's still learning that. But it runs up land, landdown like the Dorian Gray of the ÖVP through the area and claims that it is so close to the citizen and does everything for integration, so that there are no difficulties in the population. He is available around the clock, is always there for all people and is at all the superman of this government. I'll take the evidence. There has been a problem in Vienna for many years, almost 20 years now, namely the problem of Dammstraße 37, which is perhaps a term to you, Mr State Secretary, where an Islamic centre is to be created, completely against any building regulations, completely against any principle of cooperation and cohabitation in the middle of a residential area. And like a normal Sunday on Dammstraße, I'll show you that with photos. That was 6th. November. That's how it looks in the middle of the streets where some Austrian citizens still live. Nothing bad! They're peaceful people. You see, there's no even room there, and it's really a situation that corresponds to that of a ghetto. There is no integration, Mr State Secretary. That's really a problem! Further image: I'll put this up to you. Look You may be looking at the pictures once, because [[the speaker submits short pictures to the Secretary of State]] You weren't there yet, and maybe you don't know. Now an Islamic center is being built. Here is the plan, against any construction regulations. [[Abg. May. Gerstl: This belongs to Vienna!]] No, no, that doesn't belong to Vienna. That is where the Secretary of State for Integration, Mr Gerstl. This is typical: Mr Gerstl, who leads the ÖVP Vienna into the graves, does not want to know anything about it, I understand, the grave of the Vienna ÖVP, who does not want to know anything about it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Against all regulations for building heights, against any ensemble protection, against any regulations, there will be an event center, Mr. Gerstl – and now I am telling you something – against which all the district parties have already spoken in 1996. [[the speaker shows the corresponding pictures]] There's a request from the District Office. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] All the parties, SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, were against it, the Greens were against it and the Liberal Forum at that time. Everyone was against it! There is now a citizens' initiative, a very strong citizens' initiative, which now includes thousands of people. And they thought, at last there is a responsible State Secretary who is trying to integrate. This is not an anti-foreign citizens' initiative, as you might believe, but it is colorfully mixed: Red, black, also green, also liberal. These are different partygoers who want one thing: a peaceful living together there, but not a Turkish-Islamic ghetto that sells their own people from their own homeland. That's not what people want, Mr. Gerstl. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Gerstl.]] ==References====External links== May 2011 addressed to Mr. State Secretary Kurz, with a very friendly, very factual mail, in which she pointed out very clearly what problems it is about, that there should not be religious conflicts, but that it is a Pragmatism that there is no parking space, that there is noise harassment. They have made suggestions that right near the north-west railway site, where a new district is created, the religious center should be built and not in the middle of the trailers and residents. ==References== May! Once the office of Mr. State Secretary needed a week until it was found, one week later, on 6 June. June: Yes, the mail received was confirmed, but not by Mr. State Secretary, but by a certain woman Lisa Koroshetz from the State Secretariat. Then they wondered and thought that an answer would come. Then there was an answer, again three weeks later, on 24. June, from the Secretariat of State, but not from the Secretary of State, so close to the citizen, oh so hard and so communicative State Secretary. He himself does not care about it at all. Any power. Franz Wolf-Maier writes the Citizens' Initiative: Yes, the letter has been received. - That's so short. Then he writes that he is against flat-rate debt allocations or even against a cultural struggle. – This is what the citizens’ initiative “Cultural Fight” accuses, people who are fighting for their very own life! What's going on? - They're writing again. No reply from the State Secretary from June to today. In short, he didn't go, he didn't call anyone, he didn't even answer e-mails. This is a shame, Mr State Secretary, but not a proper policy of what you are doing! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] As the State Secretary for Integration, you would have the task of going there to look at this. Then you will find that this has nothing to do with integration, that there is to be a ghetto where Turkish coffee houses, Turkish event centres, even a Turkish hairdresser are to be established, all Turkish. There is no integration. They're trapped there. They're allowed to do that. Don't misunderstand! I am not against them being allowed to do so, but not there, not in the densely populated municipal building area, but next to it. A few hundred meters further, at the northwest railway site would be the possibility to set up such a center if a new district was already created there. That is why I can only ask you, Mr Secretary of State, not to be present here and to make good speeches in the Committee and in Parliament, how great you are when you do not even contact Austrian citizens and listen to their problems with the integration of immigrants. They don't even communicate with them. You don't write back, let alone contact yourself. That's not a policy! Once we caught you and showed you the difference between appearance and being. The portrait of Dorian Gray crumbles, even though you may not see it so clearly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16624	Mr Auer spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16648	Madam President. It has happened something that is inconvenient for this house. After the third President's appointment to Mr. Pilz, Mr. Graf, Mr. Pilz, he recalled: “From a right-wing extremist a call for order!” That's inconvenient! I ask you for a short interruption to a stand-alone presidial. You can't do that in this house!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16678	Mr Auer, neither Mr Graf nor I have heard that. That is why I have already ordered that the Stenographical Protocol be given to me. [[Abg. Grosz: The honourable Member is here, he can confirm it!]] And then I'll do the same. That's how I agreed with my colleague Graf. A further word on business management: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16713	Madam President. We agree with the request of Klubobmann's deputy Auer. I can testify here for some of the BZÖ's mandates that there has been this call for call. I note for us that Mr Graf was elected by a democratic majority of this House, regardless of his political attitude, which is in all cases not right-wing, and this must also be noted by the Green Group. That is why we agree with this request and we also want to interrupt the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16750	Please, Mr Vilimsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16774	Madam President. I fully agree with what Mr Auer said. I would like to add something: It was imprecise. Parliamentary Pilz has not even called it, he has called it twice loud in the direction of the Third President Count. I can only defend myself in his name against such abuses that come more and more from Mr Pilz in the House. This is causing additional damage to this House and here, in particular, it poisons the climate from Mr Grün-Mandatar Pilz, which causes massive damage to all of us. It would never be in our minds, Mr Pilz, who was shown to be among the group of revolutionary Marxists
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16795	Mr President, we are now making a point, because otherwise we are going to the next stage, otherwise it is a speech, Mr Deputies. Mr Pilz has also spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16814	It is a presidial to make and condemn this behavior. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16841	Please, Mr. Dr. Pilz.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16865	Madam President. A number of incidents have occurred in the course of the meeting under the chairmanship of Mr Dr Graf, and I am seeking to add all the minutes here. First Interval: Mr Petzner has several times accused the popular lawyer Terezija Stoisits of the abuse of office, namely the proven abuse of office, and has thus committed a crime to her. And it has not been given any opinion on this by President Dr. Graf at all, and Mrs Volksanstalt has not been protected from such unqualified persecution. My business proposal is to add to these points, which I shall list, to the Protocol and, subsequently, also to adopt the measures provided for. Secondly, I have – and I believe the Federal Minister for the Interior can confirm this – in no way accused the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs of the abuse of office or any direction, but has called on her to act in the direction of constitutional protection. I would also like to add the Minutes here, because with the obvious intention of protecting the Freedom Party, Mr Graf has put something under the authority of Mr. Graf, where he did not think he had to pursue this in the case of the Volksanwalt Stoisits
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16899	Mr Pilz, I am also interrupting you here, just as I have previously interrupted you in your Rules of Procedure: firstly, because there must be a clear distinction between word and word; secondly, because I have already announced that I have the Stenographical Protocol established. If there is a need for regulatory measures, I will also put them in place. There is no request by Rules of Procedure to the President-in-Office for a matter of order or non-ordinary action. You know that. But we are aware of our responsibility. That is why I am waiting for the Minutes to be able to make the appropriate decisions. [[Abg. Grosz: I want him to tell you if he said it!]] Would you like to make another addition to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16926	Of course, Madam President, I would like to make an addition and make a statement to that effect. [[Abg. Petzner: Did you say it?]] If President Graf abuses the Presidency in the interests of his party on the question I have just related, I will also in future point out that a right-wing politician like Dr. Graf should not abuse his presidency. Yeah, he's a right-wing far-right politician.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16992	Mr. Dr. Pilz, I am giving you a call for order. Regardless of that, I will not interrupt the session now. But we will certainly also have to talk about this incident in the next presidency. [[Calls.]] For example, yes, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ. Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17033	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! High house! Dear spectators! I would like to move away from the emotion to the technical and material level, which, I believe, is doing us all well, especially this House, namely the budget. If we look at the budgetary situation here in Austria, then we can rightly say that we stand there a lot better than some other country, then we can rightly say that we stand there better than the average, and then we can also say that we are rightly taking the right step with this budget and, above all, with the future debt brake, in order to avoid putting our children on a backpack that they will not be able to carry in the future. This budget, which is to be decided here in Parliament, enables us to carry out our tasks and challenges in the field of security policy and to continue to guarantee them at the highest level. We in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, I as the Minister of Security, all of us assume our responsibility. And taking responsibility means, of course. to be able to adapt to new developments and, of course, to counter these new developments, so to act and to respond. And for this reason, in the Ministry of the Interior, we have also developed our own strategy for the future in the sense of security and, above all, in the sense of our budget budget, in order to guarantee above all a sustainable security policy for the people of this country – a path that has been taken by Maria Fekter, a way that has now been pursued by me and my employees. Mr Kößl has already pointed out the size of the budget, namely that we have €2.5 billion at our disposal, which is a more than 120 million when you make a comparison with previous years. Compared to 2004, there are €800 million more. What do we use it for? You all know that the most important potential in security is, of course, our police officers, and that's why we invest 70 percent of our budget in our police, i.e. € 1.8 billion in our staff, which is also right and important at the end of the day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, the amount of current expenditure of € 711 million is also important. With these budgetary resources we can continue this path, we can continue to do good work and thus also provide room for new challenges and, above all, for our focus. What do I mean by that? . I mean that the focus of our work must be on a number of key issues, such as the fight against burglary. This will also be a very important and central issue in 2012. We all know that in recent years, it has been possible to bring down the figures in the field of burglary. Nevertheless, we must continue to work on this because every break-in of one is too much, because it is not only about material damage, but above all emotional damage. A new challenge is undoubtedly the whole area of cybercrime, even here measures are very important. While the Internet opens up many opportunities, it also presents a lot of risks and many dangers. For this reason, we have trained 300 Internet politicians, have now launched the Cybercompetence Centre, and are currently developing an Austrian cybersecurity strategy, together with the Ministry of Defence, in close alliance with the Federal Chancellery to be well positioned here. We have set ourselves the goal of completing this security strategy in a year and a half. That is, in the next one and a half years we will work hard on it. It is important to me personally that we have all stakeholders in the boat, namely economy, science and, of course, industry and our experts from the executive to go a common way here. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that society, the world is changing and, of course, the challenges associated with it. We must recognise that terrorism has also reached the gates of Europe. Therefore, it is not surprising that with my colleague, Mrs Beatrix Karl, I have put on the table an anti-terrorism package here, which will also bring about changes to the criminal code and which will also require an amendment to the Security Police Act. At this point a very warm thanks to the security spokesperson Günter Kößlund especially Otto Pendlund at our coalition partner SPÖ for the really constructive talks within the last months and the last weeks. I know that these were very important discussions, that there have also been a lot of resistance here. I would also like to thank everyone for their criticisms in the context of the opinions. I am sure that we have put in place a good innovation here, on the one hand, that we can offer people even more security, and on the other hand that we can give the security authorities those instruments that they eventually need. It is very important – and the colleague Pilz mentioned this earlier – to mention also the area of right-wing extremism. Mr. National Councillor Pilz, we are not blind on the right eye! Of course, our security authorities continue to focus on the right-wing extreme scene. You know, of course, the Constitutional Protection Report, which clearly shows that the number of ads, the number of crimes in the far right area has increased, but we are still at a relatively low level thanks to God, which does not mean that we do not continue to keep a full eye on this scene. The fact that our security authorities have worked well proves that Mr. Kussel is in detention for investigation, that such things are being suspected and that there is zero tolerance in such cases. Of course, there is no task of not investigating links of the right-wing extreme scene to the FPÖ, no matter who has a connection with the right-wing extreme scene, no matter who prepares common things with the right-wing extreme scene. Here there is zero tolerance by my person and, of course, by the authorities. There is neither a mission nor a mission here, no matter what kind of crime it is. There just has to be zero tolerance here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A completely different area of problem where it is important to me as a woman, mother and above all as a minister of security that we are successful in the fight against it is violence in the family. We all know that violence takes place everywhere, at work, on the streets, but above all at home, because most of the offences take place at home in their own four walls. We know that it is often difficult for women to get out of this spiral of violence, and that is why it is our job to provide comprehensive support and assistance here. For this reason, we have a new project in the focus for 2012, namely the "Ally against Violence", where, whether organised by the state or by non-state, we are taking all those involved in the field of prevention into account, in order to pool all initiatives and measures and thus gain more width in the preventive field. For this reason there is also a coordination body against violence, which is located in the Federal Criminal Office. We focus on disabled people in our work as part of this “combination against violence” especially on children, women, elderly people, people with disabilities, in order to be able to give these members of society the best possible protection. An important part of our work is undoubtedly also the whole area of the fight against drugs. We know that, because of our geographical situation, we are a so-called drug transit country. All the more so, it is for us to continue to intensify control and search pressure, to strengthen further, and to seek even more international cooperation. This international cooperation will: In the future, more and more important, and that is why, in the future, our liaison officers, who do really best work and perform great achievements, will become more and more important. A very important and central issue that has already been addressed to the public today – extremely emotional and extremely controversial – is the whole area of tourism – an area that not only demands us today, but will also demand us in the future, tomorrow and the day after. Yes, it is true that we have just made an increase in immigration, in the field of asylum procedures. It is therefore also important to be highly professional in this area. We are still closely linked to our tradition of refugee aid. That is to say, people who have to flee their home countries because they are threatened with death will continue to have full support with us. I believe that in recent months we have taken an important and right step with the 2011 Foreign Rights Change Act, where we have established clear rules of the game, who is allowed to stay in this country and who has to leave that country. A very important and essential point has been discussed, namely the obligation of presence. This obligation of presence is very important to me personally, because I think it is essential, because it will enable us to separate the toweds from the tow for the first time. This is often about trafficking in human beings, and we want to free people from the traps of the tugs. But I also say quite clearly that we do not tolerate asylum abuse in any way here, that we must close the back door so that we can leave the front door open for those who need help and support. Mr Westenthaler has referred to the Federal Office for Asylum and Migration, and I can tell him: We have discussed this in detail, including in the last Committee on Budgets, where the question has already been raised: Where is that budgeted? There, too, I gave the answer: Once again, €5 million is planned for the preparations, from the reserves for the implementation of this Federal Office for Asylum and Migration. At this point, too, a warm thanks to the countries, the Heads of State and the Head of State and the Coalitions for being able to “commit” here as regards the content of the implementation of this Federal Office, which is very important because this Federal Office brings more benefits to all concerned. We manage with this Federal Office to provide a contact person with a quick procedure. We are not only guilty of this, we are also obliged to pay the taxpayer. A very important point is also the whole area of immigration, especially with the Red and White Red Card, where we are concerned with getting, above all, those that we ultimately need with their competence to strengthen our economic location. With regard to integration, it is only so much said that we have €5 million more here, for language early promotion. As part of the integration policy, the Secretary of State will then take the floor and present his projects to the House. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Whether we are talking about drug trafficking, international terrorism, migration or asylum, there are very big challenges here – challenges often come with an international dimension that we can only achieve across borders in international cooperation. I can only say for my part: I am particularly grateful for the negotiations with the Minister for Finance for the success of ensuring €2.5 billion for security. € 1.8 billion is for the entire area of staff. It is precisely with this €1.8 billion that we are able to deliver the promise that by the end of 2013 1 000 police officers will be more on the street to provide their services to ensure security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As honourable Member Otto Pendles has already said, good police officers of course also need good equipment, because those responsible for safety must also be well equipped themselves. That is what we do, starting from the protection vests to the services, where we continue to invest €10 million for renovation, new construction and the proper design of police inspections. There is also a million euros available for this. But I also say quite clearly: A more would of course delight us, but one More is currently not possible. That is why it is important to set very clear priorities in the renewal of the services. It is important to me, above all, as far as the fleet is concerned, that all employees are on the road safely. You know we started a few years ago to convert this to a leasing variant. In the next few months, we will have implemented a hundred percent of this leasing variant, which will ultimately lead to the use of state-of-the-art technology in the vehicle park. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we have put in place a good budget here. We have a budget that allows us to invest in different areas. This will enable us to declare terrorism, and indeed crime in general, whether it be small crime or international crime, to fight. We also have the opportunity and the opportunity to create a free space and thus to focus on new fields, such as the whole area of cybercrime. I believe that with these priorities we will also be able to strengthen our position or continue to hold our world ranking at number six and our Europe-wide rank in second place and continue to guarantee security in this Republic for the people of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17194	Mr Secretary of State came to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17216	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to follow up on what the Federal Ministers said at the beginning of the budget: I am pleased for two reasons about the budget, which is because I believe that the debt brake and the "generation scan" have made a step towards more sustainability and, secondly, because the budget has developed very positively in the area of integration. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance Maria Fekter and our Minister of the Interior very much. We now have around €32 million available for integration in 2011. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But pay the taxpayer! You should actually thank this one!]] These are common funds from the Integration Fund and the Integration Department. And for 2012, there is an increase of around €5 million to just under €37 million. I am particularly pleased that it was possible to get the € 5 million for early language support in kindergartens, because I think it is very important to start early in the promotion, and especially in the language. With these €5 million, we double the money invested by the countries. This means that there is a total of around €10 million for the language early promotion of kindergarten children, so that school entry into the elementary school is also ensured at a proper level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: There would be a German preschool necessary!]] Mr Westenthaler, you addressed the taxpayer with your call earlier. It's right what you say. I think this is well-invested money, and you should always thank the taxpayer. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Well, go!]] As I said, it's well-invested money, it's not an outcast money. I believe that, in addition to the issue of gender equality and education, the issue of integration is very important for our co-existence in the future. I think it is important to be honest on the issue of integration and to say honestly that it is not possible to solve decades of failures from today to tomorrow. There will have been problems in the past over and over again, there will have been issues where too much dream has been dreamed or honed, and our aim now is to move forward step by step in integration. It needs to be there... [[Abg. Strache: Failure by the government for years!]] [[Calls at the ÖVP.]] There is a need – and I would like to refer to what Mr Westenthaler said earlier about the citizens' initiative in Vienna – for a close-up of all political levels. Integration is nothing... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why don't you talk to the citizens' initiative?]] I'll be right there, please, a second! – Integration is nothing but the government or the State Secretariat, but integration affects all political sectors at federal, national and local level. I am therefore very glad that budget posts for integration are also provided for in all other policy areas and that joint projects can also be carried out here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as the citizens' initiative is concerned, I think it is a bit unreasonable that you want to use this citizens' initiative. I was in contact with the Citizens' Initiative. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You were not in contact with the citizens' initiative, but with your office!]] There were also discussions at the Ministry of the Interior. Do you believe that the citizens' initiative has eaten anything but a fool on you? I believe that the citizens' initiative would be very different from what you have presented here today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They wanted to talk to you, but you don't talk to them because your principle is superiority! That's the truth!]] You said earlier that we were not in contact with the citizens' initiative. Once again, I have chosen the e-mail of the citizens' initiative and I can tell you: The citizens' initiative, specifically Mrs Schuster, even thanks us for the prompt response. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not with you! This is immense, such an exaggeration! You're too cowardly to go there! That's the truth!]] What you can say about it – and I think you know it as a Member of Parliament – is that the question of building law is not a matter for Parliament. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are too cowardly to go there!]] This is a subject that concerns country and districts. But I think the BZÖ is also free to run for the next election in Vienna, in order to perhaps address this question in the Landtag or in the district representation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just push everything away!]] Now again to the subjectual work at the federal level. – We have entrusted an independent expert board with the task of creating a catalogue of measures for successful integration. This is about 20 proposals in three areas. For the first time, it is important to us that the subject of language learning and, on the second hand, the issue of ‘invoking in Austria’ and, on the third, the subject of respect. First of all, on the subject of language learning. I mentioned the issue of early childhood language promotion in kindergarten. The second is that we have tied up a German package for the Lowered, in order to reach especially those people who have been living in Austria for a long time, but cannot yet comply with German. The third is a package for children and young people who are concerned with supporting, among other things, scholarship systems, especially young people with migration backgrounds that make a good educational path that is high potential for our country. For the fourth time, we are currently developing the learning cafes with the Caritas in Austria, in order to support all those children and young people who may need to catch up, who may not have the opportunity at home to do the tasks in a protected environment, and where perhaps some of them have not been left out of school – consciously a project aimed at all: children with migration backgrounds as well as children without migration backgrounds, say to all those who have a need for funding and who cannot make their way to education in the school system without the corresponding support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Next area: the labour market. This is particularly the issue of “bringing to use. ” We have tied up a labour market package, especially for infirmaries. The idea behind this is that migrants can get involved in areas or be able to take a foothold on the labour market where we are currently lacking. It has also been possible in a joint initiative – and I would like to thank Minister Hundstorfer – to implement the “migrants’ index” at the AMS. This is not about better promotion or bad promotion, but rather about more targeted promotion of migrants at the AMS. Third: the whole area of respect. I think we can be very proud of the project of the integration ambassadors with which we are on our way to the Austrian schools. Under the title ‘Together Austria’, we want to reduce prejudices and on the one hand create motivation, because there are still many young people with migration backgrounds who, although they have taken a foothold in the education system, do not trust themselves in a corresponding career in Austria. We want to motivate all of these to continue this course of education in order to lead a self-determined life in Austria. There are many areas left open, there is still much to do, for example the second kindergarten year, penalties for compulsory schooling, recognition of foreign education qualifications, the Islam Dialogue Forum or the Red-White-Rot-Fibel. We are working on all of this, and I can finally invite you to support this path. I mean, there can only be one way in the area of integration, and that is the common one. Austria will do well. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17427	Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17451	Madam President. The Secretary of State has twice said the untruth. Mr. State Secretary Kurz, for the first time in relation to the Dammstraße citizens' initiative, has made the claim that he is personally in contact with the Dammstraße citizens' initiative. – That’s wrong! I have complete mail traffic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] The Dammstraße citizens' initiative was in contact twice by email, the first time with a woman named Lisa Koroshetz and the second time with a Mr. Mag. Franz Wolf-Maier. The Citizens' Initiative was not in contact with Mr. State Secretary Kurz in any way in mail contact or otherwise. That's where he first said the untruth. The second untruth you have claimed, Secretary of State Kurz: that the citizens' initiative would be grateful to you for the good cooperation. – That is clearly wrong! [[Interlocutory note by Secretary-General Kurz.]] I have a very up-to-date e-mail from the citizens' initiative, in which the citizens' initiative complains that it has been since 29. May look for an appointment and a contact and – I quote – there is still no answer from your site to this day and no call date. And – final quote from the public initiative’s e-mail –: As a member of the ÖVP, I am personally very disappointed by my party to get so little help for arrainers and 1 478 apartment owners in this street. We too are voters! – That’s what the citizens’ initiative says. So don't swindle Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17506	Next, Mr Hornek. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17549	Mr Westenthaler, if you were to listen, this would be very helpful. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, am I speaking? [[Prolonged calls.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of State Secretary Kurz) You did not speak a word with the citizens' initiative!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I don't think that's true what the Westenthaler says!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to point out a few things at the beginning of my speech. The issue of security is an important issue, but verbal redimensionalization in this House would certainly help to ensure that the basic principles of democracy are respected. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I find it partly unbearable how the debate takes place here. It is unfortunate, Madam President, that it is not possible to make its statements. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's incredible what the government bank is squeaking about, the government practitioner!]] [[Further ongoing calls.]] – Please take it easy!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17642	Mr Hornek, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17664	Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that such a situation is happening in this House because we have very important things to discuss and also to deal with. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of security in Austria is in principle a positive one, both because of the past and for the future. However, I feel it is all the more strange that there are flat-rate amendments to officials here – I know many who work in the ministry – that they carry out unilateral investigations or similar. I can't accept that. I'm going to reject it accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! The security report of the Republic of Austria has been very positive since the last few years. There is a continuous decline of the crime rate with a short outbreak in 2009. It is particularly noteworthy that overall crime was reduced by more than 9 percent in 2010. We can be proud of this together, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A positive result in the safety report is not a coincidence. This requires a lot of commitment, a thoughtful and responsible process, and that over years, otherwise it is not possible that the Republic of Austria is considered one of the safest countries in the world. The issue of security has a very high priority in the Federal Government. In the future, therefore, it will continue to ensure that officials are supplied with high-quality material and high-quality technology in order to be able to perform their external service. Despite the indispensable savings we have been discussing in this House for days, it is possible that the Ministry of the Interior's budget will not be reduced, making it more available to 1,000 officials in 2013. [[Abg. Petzner: Say something to the Secretary of State and to him!]] As a Waldviertler Member of Parliament, it is particularly important for me to deal with the subject of asylum, integration and foreign law. Because of personal distress – I have lived on the Iron Curtain for decades, my parents were displaced people – this is a particularly important topic for me, which I would like to have dealt with objectively and not with polemics, as this is partly the case here. [[Abg. Petzner: You call yourselves “Christian-social”!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Dirty Guide!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are very different in this area. We have been very committed to making it possible to differentiate early on between those who really need asylum and the others. In this respect, Austria has precisely complied with its requirements for decades. We will continue to deal with this very professionally in the future. We also bear this responsibility to the Austrian taxpayer. One of my previous speakers, Mr Kößl, has already pointed out that due to the changes that have occurred in foreign law, there are substantial improvements and, in the course of the Red and White Red Card, there is a possibility that there will be orderly immigration according to the defined target criteria. [[Abg. Petzner: Say something to the Secretary of State, Mr Hornek, that the Parliament is disappearing!]] The Secretary of State is responsible for this, and he is doing well. If you accuse him of being too young, I have to say, This is a defect – but you have done so in the past of the often – which is getting smaller with each day. [[Abg. Petzner: No, no, we didn't say that! They say the untruth again!]] He's highly professional, and I congratulate him on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17774	Ladies and gentlemen! We have more than two days ahead of us, and so that the debate climate does not develop negatively from the outset, I now make the following comment: There has been a practice here in the past that I would like to draw on. Permanent calls will be answered immediately with a call for order. That was the case in the past, and I will apply this practice again. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] This does not mean that calls for call are not wanted – that is part of the living democracy – but I do not believe that a permanent call for call will allow an orderly debate. I'm now making this announcement so I won't be surprised later. Mr Mayerhofer, you are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17814	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated State Secretary! Madam President. Once again a report from practice for practice – especially remarkable that you speak about security has a special background. I would like to start by making a motion for a resolution – and so that my colleague, who is not in the Chamber right now, does not have to stir up, we have formulated the whole thing in the light of the tight budget resources – in the light of the fact that: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I refer to the speech by the honourable Member, silently from 20th century onwards. October, in which the ÖVP delegate boldly complained that the opposition would have nothing better to do than constantly submit applications that would devour immense sums – immense sums! - Now he's here. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's right!]] Welcome to the National Council! We have a budget meeting. I would like to invite you to do so. Mr Stumvoll, please never complain out here again in reply to the costs of the FPÖ's applications and, like crazy, strangely and practically, the applications are. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Now I’m talking to Mr. stupid! I advise you to conduct conscience research before you get upset – but the massive kind, namely, by a small example, where “only” is €7 million. I know that's not a lot of money in your eyes, but for us little people already. In this case, the Court of Auditors has pointed out that you can go to the predecessor of the Minister for the Interior. That's where we found Mr Kößl, you look at your chief inspector and you're not losing him somewhere! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] There was no cost estimate there, there was no cost-benefit accounting, there was no budget planning in this area either. The IT project cost € 7.2 million. The internal staff resources were neither recorded nor evaluated for this purpose. That is what the Court of Auditors notes. Without much effort, one falls over one particular feature after another in this department. Didn't anyone recognize that there? There has obviously been no need for action there either. What about saving as a whole in the ÖVP ministries? – The money that was spent on the promotions could have been used for better pay schedules for young police; for young people who could then afford to go to a police school, for young family fathers and mothers who, with €900 they get there for a year, cannot find the way out! You have to start sintering promotions to bring in as many migrants-politics as possible – but that is your priority goal. The ÖVP premium is: Not the principles of general administration... – You should be careful, and then you go out and say something about it. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The principles of administration, namely practicability, economy, economy, are no matter what anything. I experience this constantly with the mayors in Lower Austria, investing in money, working there on the worst and most risky playgrounds and then establishing a savings package after another – as you now call it – and all this at the expense of the police and the citizens, the entire population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How does it work in practice? - Let's take the case of Kampusch. What was invested there? Ten thousand hours of police workers were invested there! And what do we have there? – A very sad situation, how to get rid of the media. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - Please don't bother! I fear that this story will be turned off. This is also a form of saving: if tens of thousands of hours were to be “stripped down ” even though significant investigative approaches were still to be pursued. There, Mr. Stumbling can make himself quite wide. The resources used there should really lead to an economic success, namely that the criminal acts that can be suspected to be done there actually become public. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Madam Minister, I would like to ask you: They put me in fear and unrest for the last time, but most massive. My colleagues outside in the waxhouses, too. I told them that, and almost I would have been the victim of unkind receptions. I told my colleagues you wanted to change the operating system. – Please, don’t change the operating system! I'm symbolically kneeling in front of you today and I'm asking you: Don't do that! You can't break down the police system, especially in Vienna, as you can with a shelf caretaker at BILLA. It's immense what's going on, but you don't know what you're talking about, because they don't tell you that. They're not telling you that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Leave your fingers off the service system, don't torture the police, let them work in peace so that they can motivate the crime cases to work out. They have more than enough to do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] In the direction of ÖVP another sentence: The disregard for the expectation of the population and the police will lead to massive losses! And here I say to the bankers here in this sector: [[towards ÖVP]] You will soon have to issue a massive win warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17942	Mrs Mag. Worm is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17964	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In your speech on the budget, you mentioned the importance of the intervention agencies, the centres of violence in the fight against violence in the family. They led the “Ally Against Violence. ” I am glad – I have already said this in the previous debate – that the Ministry of the Interior is also doing its part so that these bodies, which are so important for the victims of violence in the family, are financed accordingly. We know that it is female victims in particular. We know that about 89 percent of the victims of violence in the family are women, that very many children are affected. A child protection package was recently presented by Minister Karl. To this end, I would like to make a suggestion – that has always been communicated to me by female workers in anti-violence centres dealing with violence against children, abuse of children –: There should be such a thing as special officials where the children – that they are “be questioned”, cannot be said. They should be given special training to these policemen. I think that's what I'm saying. It's important. There is often fear and shyness, and so the children would have the opportunity to express themselves there. The cooperation between the executive and the employees in the anti-violence centres has worked wonderfully, but we should definitely train such priority officials in terms of child protection. They also mentioned the question of forced marriage or trafficking in human beings. I am glad that the emergency apartment, which has been anchored in the Coalition Convention since 2008, will be realized in the near future. The Minister for Women has already provided around €248,000, as far as I remember. I hope you have made provision for this in the budget. Another and important concern is gender budgeting – I have not found as much as I would like in this budget proposal. I recall Article 13 B-VG, according to which gender budgeting should be received in each department. There is still a lot to do here, 2013 must have happened more. That's what I'm saying. In the case of Gender Budgeting, I also say to my colleague, Mr Unterlander, that it is really something like a woman's compatibility that is being examined, I say, because we still have more discrimination against women than men. We need even more equality here, so we should check every budget and every item on whether there is justice between the sexes. Therefore, in the future, more care will also be taken on the issue of gender budgeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18009	I would mention, of course, that the motion for a resolution tabled earlier by Mr Mayerhofer is under discussion. It has been properly introduced. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18070	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18092	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear guests at the gallery! In the last few weeks, we can no longer hear the word “integration” from the Secretary of State without receiving the word “performance”. I think during the budget negotiations is the right time to say: If only we were able to achieve this, the whole first generation of migrant workers would have to be well integrated with us, because they have done a lot. They have contributed very, very much with their zeal to the prosperity of Austria. Our prosperity today also has a very significant impact on the performance of migrant workers and migrant workers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Secretary of State Kurz has spoken of decades of failure. – I want to give him a hundred percent right. What he has forgotten to mention was that in these decades of failure in integration policy, in the case of equality measures, his party, the ÖVP, was consistently in the government, so it bears a great deal of responsibility for these decades of failure. It is gratifying to turn away from this path and make a real integration policy. But what is still missing is the principle: Same obligations and equal rights! We're still miles away from that. And the people who have been paying their taxes for decades, who contribute to this society, are still very far away from recognition, namely recognition as equal citizens of this country. And this recognition should finally be expressed to them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come back to the word performance, which, as I said, Mr Kurz – who seems to have left us in the meantime and unfortunately cannot listen to my words; I would therefore ask his officials to tell him my statements... – No, I do not think that all are gone; I see some here. [[Abg. Markowitz: Leave!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He doesn't care!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They're not here either!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They're all gone too!]] I would ask you to do so if Mr Kurz is not important enough for him to fail until the end of the debate. The word “performance” is much mentioned by the Secretary of State. And if we look at the performance that he has done in the Budget Committee, then I’m actually getting more of the famous statement “Where was my performance?” Those colleagues who have had the pleasure of being in the Internal Budget Committee will remember: I have addressed the fact that the budget figures are constantly changing. About five months ago, Mr State Secretary, he said he had a budget of €20 million. In the Internal Budget Committee, it was suddenly €32 million. The following day, the ÖVP’s Integration Spokesman, Member of the Rädler, issued an issue in which he claimed that the State Secretariat has a budget of € 22 million. So you don't know which budget numbers you're supposed to believe. This is definitely a very interesting budget at the State Secretariat. This is like a chameleon: It changes from day to day depending on who asks and when is asked. The following special service was provided by the Secretary of State in the Budget Committee. When we asked: How does this supposed budget of €36.8 million for 2012 actually come together?, he was unfortunately unable to say in the Committee that the figures can be found there and there. I think this is a unique achievement that is not so easy to achieve that, on request, on multiple requests, one cannot say what numbers can be found where to make up one's own budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next interesting detail: I asked Mr State Secretary briefly how many funds are available, for example, for funding. He answered this question in the Committee on Budgets with €14 million. Interestingly, the next day in the morning, he made a press release in which he said he would have available € 10.7 million for funding. One has not been able to say how much resources are available for language courses. That's what it said: We cannot say that at the moment, we will submit it in writing. – I regret that this supplement has taken place for a whole week. Nevertheless, thank you for the answers at least today, after a week. And even there you can't actually see how many resources are available for German courses. And this, very well noticed, at Mantra: German is the most important in integration! – This is always preached by the State Secretariat, the Secretary of State, in short, but if you ask: And how many means do you have at your disposal for this most important thing in integration?, then you say: No, we can't say that exactly because there are German courses, there are German courses there, and we don't know how many means we really have. Finally, I would like to stress: If you are constantly talking about performance, you should also perform a transparent performance yourself. You should know your own budget. On request and demand, we should be able to say how many resources are available for what measures. – We are very far away from that. I would therefore like to conclude with a call to the Federal Government, but also to the Minister of the Interior and the State Secretary: Make Finally, you are asking for a transparent budget so that we know what is available for! We will measure you in your work and these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18191	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18212	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now heard everything on the subject of internal affairs, and I do not think that much has been added to the remarks made, in particular by our Federal Minister and also by the State Secretary. The fact is that safety is not saved. The fact is that there is a decline in crime statistics. We know more cops are on the street. [[Abg. Windwood: Are you sure?]] And what we can be particularly proud of is that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] To be allowed to live in such a country is not a matter of course, but it is also a task of all together to maintain this achievement in the future. We know how important security is, especially in the field of the economy – Austria as an export country – but we also know how important it is in the area of tourism, because it is not a matter of course, if you travel around the world, that you can feel as secure and comfortable as you do in Austria. Mrs. Federal Minister! Of all of us our support! I think that's a good budget. It has even been increased, it has been reworked, the resources are used in a targeted way. The Secretary of State for Integration is on the right track. And Austria can be proud of being one of the leading countries not only in Europe but also in the world, especially in the field of security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18253	Mr Windholz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18285	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister of the Interior! Mr State Secretary! I note with regret that Mr Secretary of State Kurz has left Parliament. Perhaps he's already on the move to the Citizens' Initiative? But they've been waiting for an appointment since May; I think he could have waited those hours too. . I really think it is immense that a State Secretary, when his place of business is being negotiated, is standing up and running out of it after five speakers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are now negotiating the budget for the interior area in an order of €2.5 billion. We have heard that about 1.8 billion of them are being made available to staff, mostly for executives. Of course, there is always the question: Is that enough we have? Security as a basic need for our population is an essential factor. It is always about the question of staff. But we also need a staff – regardless of the size – that is motivated, which is equipped accordingly. I would've expected you to figure this out a little bit more today: How is our executive motivated? Which minister does she have? What is the place where measures are to be taken? I keep visiting police services. I hear again and again that there is also the internal termination. I hear again and again that there are too few staff. What this executive is demanded of us goes to the limit of the feasible. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if the government here always announces in certain jubilation that there are now more staff and greater efforts, then I can tell you from my point of view – and talk to the staff on the services! – this is still far too little. I am now describing to you a case in my community, where I am mayor, where citizens come to me and say they don't understand the world anymore. In the early morning hours, the x-th time, in a residential complex. One wakes up, looks out of the window, sees a white box car, how the thief is brought there, and immediately calls the police department. What's going on? – It is further linked towards the district office, from there further linked towards the capital of St. Pölten, there again passed on to a competent body. There he was told, they'll take care of it right away. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! The first executive organs came in one and a half hours after this call. Well, do you think that's an optimal condition? Minister of the Interior! I'll give you the way from these educated citizens: You whistle on your ads in the newspapers. Put that displeasure in place! Take the budget resources, which then become free, and create more executive! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, we are always confronted with the accusation: We demand more and more. Then who else is going to pay this out of the budget? – Mr Stumbling has been mentioned again and again. He can no longer remember that the ÖVP has been in the government continuously for 25 years, almost constantly placed the Minister of Finance. You're surprised it looks so bad with the money. That is why I would like to make a proposal to you: Make your authorities slim! Separate from areas that are no longer necessary! I would like to speak to the Security Directorates here. We need a comprehensive administrative reform, and I believe it is now time to narrow down this bloated administrative system. These security directives in the federal states, parallel to the state police commanders, are an impotence. If you open the Land Police Commanders, give them more competence, delete You'll see the security directors for this, and you'll see: In turn, they will have more opportunities to use executives on the streets to ensure more safety. Therefore, the following application shall be submitted: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think that would be a proposal you should take along. Of course, we know the reaction of the two government parties: Everything that comes from the opposition must be pushed. You will see that you will not be able to implement meaningful reforms, and that would be a useful contribution, which will finally lead to a redeployment in the executive. At the end of the year, Mr Mayerhofer: Poldi, please let this go! Not all mayors of Lower Austria have speculated. There may be one or the other, not everyone. I don't belong there either. And by the way, I can really say to the majority of mayors, no matter what couleur, that they are doing good work for the respective community. And where that doesn't work, you need good people, and then there's a change of power. Bad Deutsch-Altenburg may be a good example.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18381	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18435	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18457	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, I am glad that the integration budget has been increased from 32 to 36 million €, because it shows that it is going in the right direction – on the other hand, I can understand and feel the colleague Korun with her: I could not follow the figures in part, whether it was in committee or before. And just as you yourself said: On the basis of the debate in the Committee, this issue came the day after where the figures were clearly defined. I would also like to refer very briefly to these 5 million for the promotion of language, this Article 15a agreement, which is now to be concluded with the countries. The Secretary of State says in an issue that he does not care how the funds are divided, that he would like the countries to make up for each other. Nevertheless, the basis of the calculation key has already been changed from its side, and yet many discussions now need to be held on how we come to the sums so that we can continue to maintain existing projects that already exist. On the other hand, he also calls for more control. Until now, the BIFIE has controlled the funds that have been disbursed. That seems not to be the case now. Now I don't know what this is all about. Does this have to do with the fact that the mirror area is now different and that it should now be the integration fund? Or is that related to something else? But perhaps this can be answered by the Minister of the Interior or by the Secretary of State if he may come back. I am very confident, however, that these €5 million are important for the future of children, so that there is a level playing field with regard to entry into school. If I now make up this 36 million budget of the Secretary of State and withdraw these € 5 million for voice promotion, I will be talking about 31 million; of which the Secretary of State has taken these 20 million and says that 11 million of them come from the Integration Fund. Of these 20 million, he provides funding, and I am very glad that there is now also a homepage, where one can read it and where these grants are named in 2012 with these 143 projects, which are now available, and are also numbered, and where five priorities have also been set, where this increase in funding is also a plus of 1.8 million, so that we reach these 10.7 million. If I still deduct the 5 million that have been charged for the NAP integration, then between € 2 and € 4 million remain – this is still an insinuity – and I very much hope that this money will not be spent for representation costs and for newspaper articles and homepages, but for migrants, for Austrians and for better living together in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18499	Mr Herbert is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18520	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Much in the field I am particularly grateful to the Minister for the Interior that she has, on her own initiative, addressed a subject which, following the tragic incident of Hirtenberg at the beginning of this year, has gained a special new importance, namely the issue of the allocation of ballistic protection vests, especially among the police in our country. These are the bulletproof west for executive officers. There was still a corresponding charge from your predecessor, the then Minister Fekter. Now it is true that the purchase of ballistic protective vests is also supported by you. However – and with this I am in my criticism –: A total of €6 000 are to be purchased by €12 million, but these vests are not the kind of vests that our colleagues at the base, at the executive service front, actually want to call them. These vests, which the Ministry of the Interior is looking at, are large, heavy vests of protection, which are worn by WEGA or other police special units in the respective situation, but which are not commonplace and cannot be worn on a daily basis under uniformity, under the operating clothing of the executive officers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] I think that this is a more sensible, necessary request in the sense of our executive officials, who put their safety, their health at risk every day in the exercise of their profession, thereby also gaining some appreciation for their daily work and for their daily work. I think that all of our police officers, who, despite the Trist conditions set by the Ministry of the Interior, are still doing excellent work for the people, for our Republic, have in any case deserved to return to their homes in a healthy and unharmed manner after dangerous operations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18594	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18652	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18673	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today and in the coming days we have to negotiate the federal proposal for the year 2012, and that is a special challenge in times of scarce public budgets – and this is recognised in all the contributions to the discussion. It is – and in this we agreed – a debt brake to keep the price of ordered state finances and to be able to reduce debt. But the art of the whole thing is that if you draw up such a budget path, you set priorities in focus areas in any case. The Federal Government is doing this particularly in the security field. It has already been said at the beginning of the debate that we do not reduce in this area, but rather, on the contrary, even expand and invest specifically. That makes sense too! The security report and the statistics clearly show that Austria is a very safe country and that further success can be achieved through the consistent work of ÖVP Ministers and Federal Government. We can be proud of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] – ÖVP-led, yes. Of course, it is also so – and this has not yet been mentioned in this debate – that security includes not only executives and operational organisations, but also a comprehensive security system. At this point, as President of the Upper Austrian Civil Protection Association, I would like to say a word on civil protection: I think it is our task – and this budget also provides for this – to prepare people for and raise awareness that they are prepared in crisis and disaster situations, can protect and help themselves and can also contribute to security. Another is my particular concern when we debate the budget of the security sector and the Ministry of the Interior, namely the entire field of civil service. Civil service and the public sector ensure that we have sufficient civil servants. We use them in many areas, in the rescue sector, in the social system, and we could not provide many benefits, we would not have the civil servants. This item is also sufficient in the budget. But I would also like to say a clear word in this context in the direction of our coalition partner: Whoever plays with the obligation of military service and is easily discussing the abolition of military service, must expect that then there is no There's more to civil service. No military service means no civil service either! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I think we need civil servants because many of the services provided by civil servants cannot be provided or guaranteed in any other way. An alternative paper placed on the table is neither feasible nor financeable. That is why a clear commitment to civil service needs to be made, and this is what the Austrian People's Party is doing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior and the Federal Government. I mean, we have a security budget that we can be proud of, which also sends the signal to the population, that it is working consistently and that Austria is a safe country, becomes even safer and it remains. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18746	I have a problem now. Mr Strache, I would like to turn you back from the list of speakers, otherwise I would have to give you the floor now because you are talking counter. [[Abg. That's right!]] - Good. Mr Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18777	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It is a shame that Mr Secretary of State is not present in brief – he seems to have more important dates than attending this debate – because there are already a few things that should be noted in principle. Mr. State Secretary Kurz has said today on the subject of integration that we have a great care model in kindergartens. In reality, however, it is not so great, and at least you should delete it very briefly. What is it about? – It happens to many children, who already come to the world in Austria, that they often don't speak German at home and therefore can't learn it, and from the fifth year of life without German knowledge come to a childcare system of the kindergarten, where, of course, they don't learn German again because the care center is another. That is why we have been right to say to the liberals for years: If you want to improve something in this area, you need a mandatory German preschool for those children who, at the age of five, hardly understand a word German, because they get the chance only by doing so, when they become schoolable from the sixth or perhaps only from the seventh year of life, to follow and be listed from the beginning, and not to be dragged along for years as today without need. And then it is surprising that when they leave compulsory school at 14, 15 years of age, they have no chance in the labour market! This is not integration and not fruitive for our society! – So far as one of the principles. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second principle: We have heard about integration failures and failure to integrate. – Yes, Secretary of State Kurz, your party, together with Social Democracy, has been responsible for these failures for decades. Yes, because integration is, of course, also and above all, a source of guilt. Of the people who come to our country, there are fortunately those who live this bringing debt, therefore also thanks to all those people who have come to us and have really integrated very well here, [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] have become members of our society and are also committed to their new home country Austria. That doesn't mean that there's any problem with a reasonable Austrian. But if integration fails, because one does not bring any willingness, because one does not want to, because one is wretched by society, because one has the laws wrung, because one is wrung the constitution, the main thing is one can take advantage of the social system, and if the government allows it, then that is not the failure of those people who exploit the system, but the failure of that government. And that's exactly what hits the Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Austrians are equally angry when they have to experience that tens of thousands of people from abroad are also being punished in Austria, but the government fails and there are no consequences and there is no deportation. It hurts people! – Your responsibility! Next responsibility: Again and again, Mr Westenthaler, too, has rightly said that the Dammstraße citizens' initiative would like to be presented to Mr. State Secretary in short, has already sought an appointment in May, but has not come to an end. This shows that he does not take this seriously, that he offers a show outwards, but that he, when it comes to work, apparently does not live this willingness. That's already significant. In this context, it must be recalled that there has also been a DIIB in Germany, which has definitely been classified as anti-constitutional in the Federal Republic of Germany, and not without reason! Today, however, members of the ATIB and other organisations that have been banned in Germany and who have been classified as dangerous and anti-constitutional by constitutional protection can come to Austria and continue their radical activities here and funnyly. I regret that in the debate today this Islamism development has not been addressed in our society either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Left-wing extremism is not an issue either, although severe attacks and the terrorism of left-wing extremism in Austria have been quite obvious in recent years and decades. I'm thinking about Ebergassing and other cases. And if provocateur Peter Pilz is making himself here and drawing false pictures, I say: This is the envy of the unsuccessful, who, in fact, receives a rejection in elections, while the Freedom Party receives advocacy and has also emerged as an election winner during the last elections! That's all you can say. If an unsuccessful person of envy tries to criminalise others in such a blatant way as Mr Pilz has done today, it speaks for itself. Every Austrian has to hit his hands over his head when you act on such a deep level. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just about the staff problem with the executive. – Yes, there is, even if this is always beautifully spoken. We have a staff problem with the executive. We have the situation that officials have to do incredibly many hours of overtime, and if officials are injured and no longer on duty, then they also remain in the rain, because the earnings are just so dramatic that they really get problems. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To this day, there is no law on guard services, which defines a must - provision in the law that one supports officials in this case. These are misdevelopments that we want to change. Please, change them together with us, we are available as a partner! In short, two more cases as a last remark that are important to me. In Upper Austria not long ago is a young girl on a playground of several Young people have been brutally beaten together, because it is – you can also clearly and clearly define it as racism – a shit Austrian. The imperceptible thing is that the procedure against the young people who have beaten the girl up has been terminated. A similar case occurred in Salzburg. A young boy has been brutally beaten up by five Turkish-born young people because he's a fucking Austrian, and has lost sight of it. The young people who have beaten him have assumed that he is dead and has not survived at all. Luckily, he survived. – The trial has been stopped, although you know the perpetrators! Only after protests by the Freedom Party in Salzburg and an Internet initiative has the procedure been resumed. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] They're already wondering: What is going on in our country if such bad things can happen, but then there is great silence in the forest and even such incredible errors are committed by the authorities? To do this, you can only say: There must be some change in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18923	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18944	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Before I deal very briefly with the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, I would like to make a few sentences to my colleague Mag. Hammer from the coalition partner. Mr Mag. Hammer, I can fully agree to your plea for civil service. Civil service is important, the civil servants do a lot for the state of Austria. You do not agree with me, Mr Mag. Hammer, I can claim, in relation to that bold, inhospitable, hairy claim that if the military service is abolished and there is a volunteer army, there is no civil service either. [[Call the ÖVP: What else?- Oh, my God!]] – That is completely incorrect! I would like to invite you to read through the concept of our Federal Minister of Dog Torfer, because you will be able to do so: The opposite is the case! Civil service will be upgraded if there is a volunteer army. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen! The internal budget of the Ministry of the Interior provides €8 million for the legal advice of asylum seekers and asylum seekers in 2012. We now have concrete figures on the last novel of the Foreign Rights Amendment Act. It decided on free legal advice for asylum seekers. It is hoped that in future procedures can be carried out more quickly and at a higher quality level. I would like to remind you in this regard – as my colleague Otto Pendl has already said – of the time when the asylum court was set up. Although at first very controversial, it became apparent that the asylum court worked very well, that new procedures and also the large backpack of old cases can be handled quickly. The period of years of asylum is over in Austria in the interests of those seeking protection, but also in the interests of the Austrian population. Another correct reform is being implemented with the planned Federal Office for Asylum and Migration. It creates a central competence centre for all legal issues in these areas. The previous distribution to over 190 authorities will thus have an end. Finally, I would like to say that it is very welcome that you, Mrs Federal Minister, have stated in the Budget Committee that no police inspections will be closed in 2012. I would like to join the opinion of all those who have said today in the debate that it is important to increase the staffing level among the police. This is very important for security in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18987	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19023	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Corruption prevention and anti-corruption are a central task of law enforcement authorities, are a social challenge and, of course, a challenge for the interior. I would like to thank you for your answer, Mrs. Federal Minister, in which you informed me that some €7 million is estimated for the Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption in the Federal estimates 2012. The employees of the Federal Office for Corruption are currently determining the date of the 10th anniversary. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The cases are getting more – and the challenges are getting bigger too. In this context, I allow myself to quote from last Monday’s “Kurier”: ‘Ramprechts großen Laussangung’ “In the course of the review of the case, among other things were DI Ramprecht, which was Ernst Plach and thus also Mag. Grasser loaded sites to be calculated, conducted searches in which comprehensive data material was secured. This was particularly the sound recording made by DI Ramprecht, which takes several months to evaluate by listening at original speed. The evaluation of these tape recordings is procedurally relevant, especially since in a secure e-mail message to Ernst Pelech, DI Ramprecht claimed to have an interview report concerning the BUWOG award. An evaluation of these files has not yet been complete, especially since only five police investigators are available, which are currently almost exclusively concerned with the evaluation of the cash flows of the ‘BUWOG accounts’.” Mrs Bundesminister, we have decided here in this House to set up a committee of inquiry. I think it is essential that the necessary number of police investigators be updated so that we can come here in the House in good time to the copies and to the public prosecutor's assessment. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A second issue, which I would like to address briefly, concerns the Federal Criminal Office. I would like to support the excellent work done by those Members who are working for the anti-doping society. implement the law, thank you. We decided together, and in 2010 there were particularly great successes. My compliment to those employees in the Federal Criminal Office who have achieved this!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19069	Mr Walser has now come to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, how long should I set the clock for? - 2 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 2 minutes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19105	Madam President. I would like to comment briefly on Mr Herbert's motion for a resolution. We very much welcome the fact that the Freedom Party has now been awakened and that what we have been calling for for for two years, namely effective assistance to our executives, is also calling for. But it should be an undercarriage. You have formulated this a little cumbersome, but I am happy to explain to you what the police officers really need: very light West with a maximum of one-and-a-half kilos, no overhanging vests, nothing you have to carry in the car, but something you wear on the body. We welcome this, as I said, very much. Mr Hagen of the BZÖ has already set up activities in this area. We are there immediately and we are pleased that you want to support us in this regard. Let me also talk about a second topic. Mr. Klubobmann meant that some people in this country were blind on the left eye – your clubman was. I note that the relations of the Freedom Party with the organised extremism of the right in Europe as a whole have been quite striking in recent times. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: What's going on?]] For example, I personally in Switzerland, in the case of attacks by right-wing extremists on peaceful demonstrators, with whom I was also involved, learned that there are very similarities with the Freedom Party in Austria, that the head of these right-wing extremists writes in the “Aula”, their ideological central organ, or how to call it. [[Oh-run of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: We don’t have a “central organ”!]] So I would think that the blindness of the Freedom Party has good reasons, especially in connection with the murders in Germany on the verge of opening up quite cross-links and links to the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Strache: What the hell is that? ...to make such a claim here! Shame! Unbelievable!]] I am very interested in your objective rebuttal of this whole matter. The fact is that the media are very happy to take up this issue. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Shame, my colleague.]] It is also, of course, a fact that many Members sitting here are to be referred to as extremes of law, and I would like to expressly point out what Mr Pilz rightly said. President Graf has repeatedly made this Parliament a trap for organized right-wing extremism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: This is a cleanery! It's an absolute cleaner! That's last-class!]] You have to take note of that. Last week at the award of the Dinghofer Medal: Look who's been awarded it! [[Call the FPÖ:Who?]] Martin Graf has performed several events in this house, which more than prove it. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] There was, for example, a person who had to step back – a certain Mr. Pendl – who had to resign as a university council. Is that not a term for you? [[Abg. Breach: What do you blame Mr Pendl? A righteous person, a professor! That's what you say under the protective cover of immunity!]] He was inthroned in the black and blue era and then had to resign – and the Supreme Court has confirmed this – for lack of demarcation to National Socialism. I understand you're upset, just, it's useless, the facts aren't coming by. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And we believe that a right-wing extremist in the role of the Third President of the National Council has nothing to look for, and we will continue to express this opinion offensively, whether it suits you or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19239	Mr Delegate Dr. Walser, I'll give you a call for order and I'll say the following: Whenever I chair here, I will give every person who accuses another person here in the house of right-wing extremism or left-wing extremism a call for order. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's great what he says!]] This, I think, has no place here in this room. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] – That’s how I keep it as far as left-wing extremism is concerned. [[Consistency with FPÖ and BZÖ as well as with the Abg. Head.]] [[Abg. May. Honey: Yes, but it will only be...!]] Next, Mr Fazekas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] – Mr Dr. Pilz, yes, I have already observed it! The protocol is already here, I just haven't come to read it yet. I will study the discussion very carefully until that incident and reserve myself appropriate steps. I announced this earlier – and I will do it later, not later than tomorrow in the morning. [[Call:This belongs to excluded]] Please, Mr Fazekas.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19325	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to say positively that the internal security budget is also a positive one in some areas, and this is something that we very much need in order to protect Austrian citizens. However, I would also like to see my statements today from the point of view that I see and evaluate very critically the situation regarding the reform of the city police command, Schwechat, because I assume that there must be massive restrictions on security in the city and I cannot, of course, as the responsible mayor of the city, and I am also obliged, to my citizens, to stand up to them and to argue accordingly against them. [[Demonstrative applause with the FPÖ and the Abg. Windwood.]] Ms. Federal Minister, the city of Schwechat has been characterised for years by large Austrian companies with special challenges and responsibilities – you know that very well – and therefore this has been taken into account decades ago and has granted the city and the area an executive authority with the status of a Federal Police Authority. Today, the city area is not only influenced by its inhabitants, but also by numerous industrial enterprises in the middle of the city and by the large Austrian companies on the outskirts. These include, above all, the largest European internal refinery, the largest Austrian plastic group, Central Europe's largest central rail station, a dense motorway network and, of course, the Vienna-Swechat airport with around 20 million passengers currently, the associated traffic volume and about 60,000 people who daily frequent the airport. A total of five Seveso II operations in our urban area, including the airport, with special requirements for civil and civil protection, as well as for property protection and related tasks. Every day, hundreds of dangerous goods travel through our city area. We have a staff stand of 52 police officers, and the concept is to reduce them to 42, of which seven are in the criminal service and of course cannot develop this preventive character like uniformed police officers, with only 35 uniforms available in the city area. That's a state I can't accept. I do not think that the special and special conditions and challenges of the executives have been sufficiently addressed here, but they have been assessed in general and used the population of cities in the same size. Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner, I appeal to your reason and also to the knowledge of your federal country – the federal country from which you come – and ask you to deal with this situation very intensively once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19367	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19404	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The unfrozenness with which Mr Walser – I say: Colleague – a person, yes, a personality of Austrian scientific life here has insulted and depraved, ridicules every description, and I strongly reject it! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Petzner.]] The person who has received an honor from the Third Camp, Mr. University Professor Dr. Pendl, former Dean of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Graz, international renowned scientists in the field of neurosurgery, with methods of surgery that he has not even named after himself in his modesty, because he is a very modest, but a decent, straight and honest person – and I am not saying anything now, I am not saying any side-by-step – has deserved this award very well. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Third camp?]] [[Congratulations to the FPÖ and to Mr Petzner and Mr Huber]] It is unheard-of and it is bound by family terrorism, which is being spread here, how to deal with people with whom we do not agree in a worldly way, and that should in principle be possible in democracy if you understand it – or perhaps you do not understand it, but that must be possible and it must remain possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] For this, the first thing is the Freedom Party in this House, which, with democratic rules of the game, obviously knows how to start something that I now doubt with you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Your word message, with which you have examined the reputation of an Austrian scientist, can only be rejected in the final analysis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schwentner.]] All of you, your group as a whole, dares to do this kind of thing here and nowhere else, because that is your personality trait.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19480	Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz, the word “study” will take you back, I assume. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: No!]] – Then I'll give you a call for order. On division 11, inside, there are no more words available to me. This is why this subject area has been completed. [[16:50:18]] UG 12: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19521	We are now entering into the negotiation of Division 12: Outwards. First of all, Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19545	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grosz today, using quotations from former Hungarian Prime Minister Gyurcsány, explained that the budget would have a base here, and that would be lies that they would be wrong promises. – That’s not true! That is really not true, because here there was no lie about sparness and the achievement of goals. Here it was openly said that it was not actually saved. The SPÖ has clearly said that it must not be saved, nothing must be broken. Rehabilitation takes place via new taxes. The Greens, unless they have just made it clear who is allowed to live in this Republic, who you have to die with or who you can be with, have only spoken of new expenditures – not for Tito Memorial medals, as the colleague Walser loves to do, but of expenditure in their favorite area of asylum, integration, immigration. We've dealt with the SPÖ. – So stay on display: How's it going to go on? One thing has not been mentioned anywhere, and this is an intervention into the existing structures of the state, which is an intervention into the costs that the state itself causes by managing itself and by constantly bloating itself. The whole thing reminds me almost a bit of the year 1922, which we did not, of course, all of us, but we know from the Annals and from the archives, in which Austria was already in the state bankruptcy, which could only be turned away at that time by going to the then League of Nations and getting a bond. Even after the end of the First World War, the Austrian state refused to adapt its structures, namely to adapt to the fact that one is no longer a Central European great empire, but a small state. The League of Nations then made tough demands and enforced these cuts with a state commissioner – in a terrible way: You may still know from the history books that we had to cut 70,000 officials at a stroke. State Commissioner Zimmermann has also enforced what the Austrian government at the time refused to do, namely to adapt the diplomatic service. The diplomatic service was still in the scope and status of the monarchy in 1922. It was clear that this could not happen, but if you are following the debates already held in the Austrian National Council at that time, it was also said: We cannot intervene in this, we owe it to the reputation of Austria. Austria must defend its reputation in the world. Austria must have a voice to make its position audible. – All these things, which we still hear today, have already been there. At present, it's not much different: If you look at budget chapter 12, which concerns the Federal Foreign Office, then everything we have so far had will be rewritten. We are still proud that we have a message in every European country, although almost all of Europe is united in a growing state alliance, even in Cyprus and Malta. I looked a little at how other comparable countries manage this, such as Sweden: At first they had no message at all in Cyprus and Malta, and last year, for example, they signed their messages in Ireland, Slovenia, Luxembourg, Bulgaria and Belgium, with the argument: We no longer need this in European small and medium-sized countries in a congruent union. With us all this is impossible. For us, perhaps... – Yes, in Oman it has been blocked, and I believe, as far as I hear, one will now also close the message in Zimbabwe. [[Abg. Strache: But in Oman it was blocked!]] – So here is simply the need for action. I am not talking about the contributions to the international organisations we are making. I am not talking about the 15 million we continue to powder into international nuclear energy every year, because we are not willing or too bold to cancel there – the 15 million that we pay for an organization that is opposed to our policy by promoting, spreading and subsidising the so-called peaceful use of nuclear energy, continuing to exist and continue. I am not talking about the 8.4 million we are paying for the so-called hybrid mission in Darfur, or the 3.4 million we are helping to observe in Liberia the UN – whatever it is watching there – and I am not talking about the 210 000 €, which we, like every year, are also contributing to the preparation of a referendum in Western Sahara. All of this would be safe if you were to be in the situation of Abu Dhabi or Qatar, if you had a budget surplus of €5 to €6 billion only by means of the unexpectedly high oil price. Then you could do it all – we don't have it all. I am also talking about the fact that no one in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is willing to think of the tax privileges of a certain caste. Why is it impossible to think about the fact that the tax exemption of French school teachers in Vienna – both VAT and income tax exemption – is not quite contemporary? – There is a Cultural Agreement from 1949, from the time of occupation that this provides. If you ask, Well, is that fair? Is that useful? We don't want to touch that, because we're risking the location in Vienna. Summary: There has to be a rethinking here, there has to be an intervention in the structure here! I therefore put forward the following motion for a resolution - I can read it briefly -: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19615	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19688	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19710	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The foreign office does not belong to those places where I and where we believe that there is too much money. This is a quite appropriate budget. If you put the services on the other side, you can say that with the budget that is available there – just over 400 million – extraordinary things are done and extraordinarily much done. Austria can be very proud of its diplomatic service. This is also evident again and again when Austrian top diplomats are very much in demand at European level. To represent the European Union to the United Nations is a special award, or the fourth largest economic power on this globe – in Japan – to have an Austrian diplomat as a representative of the EU, which already shows the quality of our diplomats. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: We are good too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has been described as if money is spent here or there are representations that we do not need. In Europe, it will be of enormous importance, especially for a country in the size of Austria, to have many allies in the future. And allys now belong to small states. I therefore believe it is justified that we should also have this respect for small states and that we should also be present in the Baltic States or in Cyprus or Malta with a diplomatic representation. Yes, we have more than a hundred outside representations and these hundred outside representations also do much for Austrian citizens. I mean, there are more than 130 000 individual hardships where assistance is given. And there is this public service of the foreign office on a very, very well designed homepage. Ladies and gentlemen, more than a million Austrians benefit from this website when it comes to information about countries or even travels, and this is quite a achievement that benefits all Austrian citizens. There are 300 000 to 400 000 visas issued, so it happens very, very much. The Office also looks at additional resources. If the Austrian culture is to be presented abroad, this will naturally cost. In the case of 5,000 cultural events organised in the cultural forums on the part of the external resort, it is very good that private sponsorship is also used. This is a very important point I would like to address. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Another point, of course, is the safeguarding of jobs here in Austria. Now some of you may be wondering what this has to do with the foreign sector. At this hour the Foreign Minister is with an economic delegation in Baghdad. From 100 € we produce in Austria, we produce 60 € by exports. We know that there will unfortunately be very modest economic growth at European level next year. Markets that are further away, the so-called Emerging Markets in emerging emerging emerging emerging emerging markets then become all the more important. There are single-digit, double-digit increases. The single-digit growth is close to 10 percent and not as with us in Europe near zero. The Austrian economy also needs door openers, and the Foreign Minister is such, by the way, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is doing a great deal here. Privileges were addressed: I'm glad that Vienna is a UN city. I am glad that we are able to bring new institutions to Vienna again and again as last the Regional Office of the International Organisation for Migration or the Anti-Corruption Academy in Laxenburg. These are very important contributions – also here on site – that are guaranteed by the work of the external resort. Austria is also quite successful when it comes to being represented in international organisations and institutions. Austria is highly appreciated here, and we also make appropriate contributions to whether it was in the UN Security Council, in which we were represented for two years – 2009 and 2010 – in the UN Human Rights Council or in the UNESCO Executive Council. These are recognized votes for Austria and for the achievements of our diplomacy, and I therefore say: In this section, I believe that every euro is really well-designed – in the interests of people here in the country, but also in the interest of the European Union, in the world concert of States within the UN. Therefore: Full consent from our side for this budget for the foreign sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19760	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19782	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear visitors! Mr. Hübner! I am not surprised that you are making a request for drastic reduction in development cooperation. But how you want to achieve efficiency in the future, please explain this to us; or tell us immediately that you want to complete development cooperation – then at least say it – but with these drastic shortfalls and time and again we do not start anything. It's going to be reduced enough anyway! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] That's what I'm on: Mr. State Secretary Waldner, today you have certainly read the guest comment on the last page of the “Press”, in which a commentator writes about Austria’s development policy and concludes that Austrian development policy is shortsighted, missing and caring. The commentator goes on to say that Austria no longer plays a significant role, “because through short-sighted development policy and the step-motherly treatment of humanitarian challenges itself it is putting itself away.” – I can only agree with this. In addition, he writes: “Of course, money is not everything. The volume of money flows does not yet state anything about the long-term results of the aid. But unfortunately, Austria is also in the back of the line in efficiency.” – I can only agree with all of this, Mr State Secretary. It is positive that you are now trying to bring together all stakeholders dealing with development cooperation in your journey fixe. He took place once. I would just like to point out that this is not an evening-filling programme and that it is necessary to look carefully at the extent to which Austria is still a serious partner in development cooperation and to the extent that it is responsible. I would like to give an example: This year we visited a project – you were there too, Mr Hübner; to talk about efficiency, we looked at some of the projects that I think are absolutely efficient – which was very impressive, namely, an agricultural school in rural areas. This is where young people can get into it. the school, which has only a mother tongue training and does not control French. They are taught and integrated in agriculture there and can thus also contribute their knowledge to agriculture at home. This school should have been much bigger – under Austrian participation – but could not have been expanded accordingly, because in 2008 the economic crisis intervened. Thus, raw material prices have increased so far that no more money was available to meet the promises and agreements – so far to reliability. I would have wished we could have said there: We have this money to complete this school or the other buildings. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'd also think we'd have this money. Unfortunately, they were not in the committee, it was Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister in his dual function. I asked a lot of questions, and there were a few things in need of information. But he has not been able to give me many answers after the many questions. He only said at some point – and I think that is a matter of particular self-will: Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to start budgetary negotiations with you now. – He said that to me in the Committee on Budgets. I think this is quite self-evident, because I am not sitting in the Committee on Budgets to turn it down to agree to these cuts. On the contrary! It's my job to ask why. That is why I think this is a very worrying idea by Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are still a few questions open – I do not know if you are still speaking – because the written answer has not explained these questions either, namely: There were apparently very many deposits – 42 million €. No one has been able to explain to us what happens to these 42 million euros. It's said they're being removed and saved for UN missions – yes, but that can't cost 42 million €. Then it's said they're used for the exchange rate risk as upholstery. However, there is a separate budget item at exchange rate risk with €6 million. – So what happens to these 42 million €? Please explain it to me – in writing or oral terms, no matter what. I'd be really happy if I could get more information about this. Another point is that €19 million is always spoken of as savings. However, it is ruled out that there is much higher expenditure on the other hand. That is, there is actually only €4 million in total savings in the external sector, and that means that savings in development cooperation are really disproportionate compared to other savings, especially in the administrative system. I do not understand why the cuts are really necessary. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19887	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19948	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19970	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the past few years, we can say that we have succeeded in putting budgetary programmes here in Parliament, which, with a great deal of attention and social balance, have certainly brought Austria through the crisis. It is clear that this path of fiscal consolidation is not yet over, so the 2012 budget is also a sign of further savings. The Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also make a significant contribution this year, which, of course, is not particularly pleased with me as a foreign-political speaker. Despite the tight budget, we must maintain the good quality of Austrian foreign policy. In a world where the states are increasingly interconnected at all levels, whether at the economic level, social or security policy level, we face numerous global challenges. Think about climate change, for example! This also makes foreign policy increasingly important. In recent years, Austria has managed to create a good foreign policy with a relatively small budget and to get involved and responsiblely involved in the international community. Through good physical work and reliable participation in the United Nations peace missions, we have developed a good reputation. This good reputation is now defended, it ultimately increases our influence and also our design opportunities in international politics. This has ultimately contributed to the fact that we have been elected by the international community in bodies such as the UN Human Rights Council and, this month, the UNESCO Executive Council. In this context, I would like to point out the inclusion of Palestine in UNESCO, which I very much welcome. I am pleased that Austria has shown its flag here and voted in favour of it. This dialogue must also be promoted and lived in an organization in which it is about intercultural dialogue and living together – ideally also between Israel and Palestine. Ladies and gentlemen! We must continue to ensure that the Austrian commitment and the reliability of Austria are guaranteed within the United Nations framework. With regard to Austria's contribution to the fight for a safer, more peaceful and just world, the further cuts in development cooperation are extremely painful. Here something really needs to change in the next few years. I would like to make one point because it seems to me to be particularly important for the development of the Arab countries. It is about strengthening women in these countries. In the context of the Arab Spring, women were unlikely to show much initiative, commitment and courage to free their countries and lead them to democracy. Here we must pay attention and be alarmed, there should be signs that women are excluded from this structure of their countries. [[Call BZÖ: How do you do that?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's exactly what happens!]] They must have the same opportunities – whether in education, politics or civil society. Support and promotion of the Austrian and EU sides should and must be linked to such conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this year too we will be able to adopt a stable and balanced budget, but it must not be forgotten that the tax system must also be modernised for sustainable and socially just consolidation. In other words, at EU level, we must continue to implement the financial transaction tax and in Austria – for example – a fairer taxation of assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20017	Mr Waldner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20038	Mr President. High house! Today I am allowed to comment on the 2012 budget of the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. Some have already been said in the previous debates. I am particularly interested in saying here that despite the necessary consolidation measures, we have succeeded – and we have heard yesterday and today in the discussion about the debt brakes, how important it is to reduce our government expenditure – to shape the 2012 external budget in such a way that an active commitment from Austria can be guaranteed in the world. Today's external budget is still a design and not a purely administrative budget. The necessary reductions in expenditure were planned with thought after an in-depth examination in our house and will also have a strong impact on the structure of our ministry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] At the same time, however, we must ensure, above all, that consular services for our citizens – as Mr Lopatka has mentioned – are maintained at a high level, that our commitment to the United Nations, in particular the Human Rights Council and the UNESCO Executive Council, is continued and in general ensured an effective and efficient representation of Austria in Europe and in the world. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein]] Now on the specific figures of the 2012 budget: Next year, around €422 million will be available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deal with its extensive and diverse tasks. The planned expenditure reductions amount to €6.5 million on the structure and €5 million on voluntary contribution payments for international organisations. Unfortunately – that has already been said – we also need to reduce expenditure by €7.4 million in the area of development cooperation. Let me briefly address the various areas: In the foreign representations, we have decided to reduce the representation network. The Oman and Zurich sites have already been closed, the Embassy in Zimbabwe will be abandoned by the end of this year and in 2012 and 2013, the locations of Krakow, Bogotá and Chicago will be added – to the closures, I mean. [[Green call for tender]] The basis for the selection of these sites was a catalogue of objective criteria, such as the intensity of the political exchange of visitors, the level of trade volume and direct investment in Austria, the number of visa applications and consular services for foreign Austrians and tourists, as well as the number of countries assisted by these representatives. [[Abg. Scheibner: bureaucratic!]] With regard to the cuts in contributions for international organisations, we have examined intensively the organisations in which a strong commitment of our country is aimed and where we can or need to reduce. We have set priorities in the areas of children – in other words, UNICEF – refugees – UNHCR – and women – UNIFEM, and we have maintained the funds for these areas at the level of 2010. Ladies and gentlemen! I already mentioned it: Unfortunately – and I regret this personally too – we also need to reduce expenditure on development cooperation. [[Call to the Greens: You can change that!]] In this area too, we are trying to save in the structure – for example on staff expenditure – and not on projects. Similarly, our funding for non-governmental organisations implementing EZA projects remains virtually unaffected. But I am also very pleased that we have succeeded in combating cuts in the regular budget through special initiatives such as the reduction of East Africa aid to a total of € 8.5 million – i.e. € 1 per Austrian and Austrian for the poorest of the poor. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: This is not development cooperation!]] In the coming year too, we will endeavour to be able to use funds outside the regular budget for EZA projects. At this point, however, I would also like to stress that development cooperation is a common task and a shared responsibility of the entire federal government. The Austrian ODA funds are divided into seven departments and are presented only to a small part in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has a coordinating function in this area. A responsible EZA policy requires the involvement of all stakeholders. I am looking forward to the future cooperation with all stakeholders, with all the actors in Austrian development policy, in particular with the representatives of NGOs, civil society, which I wish to involve in the reorientation of our Austrian EZA policy within the framework of the development policy already mentioned by Mrs Schwentner a few weeks ago. The next meeting will be held on 16 March. December and hopefully become another – second – evening-filling event. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me address a point that has been wrongly criticised in the Committee: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is proud of the fact that since April the Vice-Cancellor's Office and thus more responsibility for our country has also been established in its home. The fact that this is the result of additional expenditure previously budgeted in the Ministry of Finance is of course a matter of course. In this respect, I do not think that it is appropriate and not fair to counter allegations or attempts to offset these additional expenditures, which are also necessary to reduce expenditure in other areas, e.g. in the field of EZA. Ladies and gentlemen! With this 2012 budget, the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs remains a guarantee for a reliable and strong foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20131	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20153	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I don't have much time. We hope that the foreign policy report will have an opportunity to discuss intensively the strategies of Austrian foreign policy. A sentence to our criticism that the Foreign Minister is not here today: We are not opposed to him taking an economic delegation to Iraq. On the contrary! It makes sense and right that Austrian politics also takes care of the economy. You just have to make it sustainable. Once to go somewhere and have talks is not enough, and it would certainly have been possible in the planning to take into account the long-established dates of the budget treatment as well. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr State Secretary, I also believe that we can save in every place. Unfortunately, in the already low external budget there are once again proper cuts, because linear cuts have taken place. It would have been possible otherwise, namely, to set priorities as well. I believe that an active, very offensive foreign policy is important for Austria, and that there are re-route profitabilitys that could bring much more than those savings that are being achieved. I believe that EU messages should be questioned. It can't be that only the representation weighs up everything. One should really save there and set other priorities outside the European Union for this, that one is also more flexible when it comes to the use of diplomatic forces. I think it would be necessary to also talk to the Ministry of Economic Affairs about the fact that, where trade delegates are involved, they should also be used as a general consul, that the Ministry of Defence should also be negotiated, that the military attachés should also be included. It cannot be that a lack of préalable prevents you from allowing more flexibility in the external representation of Austria. What is important to me, however, is that we do things that do not cost money, namely really set priorities in foreign policy and also represent dynamic and consistent Austrian interests. There is certainly still a need for action. Mr State Secretary, you have spoken to the Middle East. There we could imagine a stronger voice. I support and expressly welcome the fact that Austria has supported the UNESCO membership of Palestine. But I would also expect us to support the UN membership of the Palestinians, because it would be – and if you think strategically, you know that – It is necessary to take a clear position within this Palestinian, almost civil war-like states. Hamas has now achieved a dubious success: a thousand releases of activists by the kidnapping of Israeli soldiers. On the other hand, we are now waiting what Abbas can still book on his account, and we do not want Hamas to achieve more success with their hands, namely the kidnapping and violence. The same is true in the Middle East: So important are revolutionary movements for the removal of despots and for the breakthrough of human rights, but one should also ensure that there is real improvement, and the situation of the Christians in Egypt is no better than before, the human rights situation in Libya is not better than before, and there would be an initiative from Austria that we can act actively for human rights – no matter who they are in violation – and that there is a strong Austrian voice in the world. [[OBJECTIVES]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20216	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20237	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The German Chancellor Merkel said a few days ago that Europe is probably facing the biggest challenge since the reconstruction phase after the Second World War. Indeed, the dramatic sovereign debt crisis, ladies and gentlemen, has revealed the structural weaknesses in the European Union. The challenges are short-term but also longer-term. In the short term, crisis management means all that we have repeatedly discussed here in Parliament, rescue shield, stability mechanism, six pack, national debt brakes, and, and, and. In addition, there are also longer-term and medium-term challenges – if we want the European Union to become a stability union. And anything other than a stability union would be a risky undertaking in a common currency. That means we need this European Stability Union. That also means, ladies and gentlemen, that in the medium and long term we do not want to think about instruments, how we can coordinate and also monitor economic policy, financial policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I know now perhaps the calls of the populists come, who say we are not allowed to rule in. But I say once again, I have said it from the speaker's mouth: Whether this really is the final conclusion of wisdom, to say that every country can do what it wants, we are all autonomous, but if they build a mess, then the European taxpayer has to hurry up and help, is the question. It can't be either. Therefore, I believe we should really discuss intensively in the near future how, with full democratic legitimacy, greater coordination and control of national budgetary policies should take place. We should also discuss the question of the extent to which the European Union should have a right of entry. Of course, a right of entry only in the sense of a sort of early warning system, because the sovereignty, the budgetary sovereignty of the national parliaments – I am perfectly in agreement with President Barroso, the yesterday's statement in the European Parliament, of course, must be preserved; the sovereignty of national parliaments in terms of budget making. But such a right of entry within the meaning of an early warning system, I believe, would really be done if we wanted to deepen the stability culture in the European Union; and I believe that we must do so in the case of a common currency. We acknowledge that we want to deepen this European Union towards the Stability Union, i.e. strive to deepen the culture of stability. I say quite frankly what I have already said here: I believe that what is really a big manko is that we do not have the appropriate communication of the European Union and perhaps also in our country. I quote the Old Federal Chancellor Vranckky, who once said that communication is poor. The “Kurier” chief has once written that we actually have a communication disaster – with a view towards Greece. In other words, we must pay great attention to the fact that we do not lose European citizens in this further development of the European Union, because ultimately the future of Europe depends on whether there is political acceptance of citizens. In order not to keep the Primitivslogans upper hand at the master tables, we need a well thought out communication strategy. And honestly, I am going so far as to say that if I look at our situation, I almost believe that we need what we had before accession to the EU, namely the great common information policy, the government plus the social partners, to show once what we have in the European Union. Hugo Portisch also described this in his new book. The European Union is designed as a peace union; today it is also a Union for jobs, incomes and social security, because we will not exist alone in global competition, since we are certainly stronger compared to China, India, USA, Brazil when the European Union acts in the face of globalisation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have a clear yes to the development and deepening of the European Union towards a stability union.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20293	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20314	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs Schwentner, you mentioned that we were supposed to be opposed to development aid and that we wanted to strongly highlight cooperation. In this sense, I would just like to keep in mind a few facts, because we believe that it belongs to the whole truth addressed here and also counts the numbers together. When we look at the budget, we see that today in Austria we are making almost €100 million under the title “International contributions”. These are our forced contributions to the UN and the like. In addition, more or less concrete missions have already been addressed: Darfur, Chad, Haiti, Ivory Coast, the famous history in Western Sahara and much more. If you are still adding the costs that are not reported in your ministry but are deducted from the defense system for foreign operations, you will find a substantial sum of – according to our invoices – approximately €170 million that serve the so-called world peace. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: This is somewhat confused because it has nothing to do with development cooperation!]] – Let me keep talking, please! Apart from that, Austria will also pay €1.2 billion, under the title “Development Cooperation”, for all budgets and all ministries combined into the international community. That, I think personally, is a decent batch of money, and it is the question to ask which priorities are set there and whether it really needs to be tightened up. I think there must be an active foreign policy, and I have to ask myself again and again whether the things that are being financed are still in line with the current political circumstances – I would have almost been in line with the spirit of time. I've heard a lot now. Mrs Muttonen said that more women belong to support, so do you. They say that there is no saving on children, refugees and women, and I am going to see a very crucial group in this list, which the Foreign Minister also emphasizes over and over again, and this is the very large group of Christians worldwide who are persecuted. Unfortunately, I do not find any budget items in any list. We have a convoluted set-up, I don't want to read it out now to avoid burdening time, maybe just two or three things. As we have budget posts for disadvantaged developing countries, we have development funds for women, we have an international research and training institute for the training of women, we have a world disarmament campaign, very much is spent on space, many such things are inside. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: There are many things that you obviously don't understand!]] We have to ask ourselves the question, because of course this sums up whether these posts are actually being used properly. I mean, in order that the voice of Austria in the world – which, as you say, is heard strongly anyway – is heard even more strongly, it would not be bad for us to use us against Christian persecution, even though it would not really cost money to be really very active. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I can only say that today countries such as Egypt, Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, Maldives, Pakistan, Turkey, India, Somalia, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Sudan are heavily involved in and unfortunately participate in Christian persecution. 75 to 80 percent of the people currently persecuted for their faith are Christians; every tenth Christian in the world is persecuted. That is, it is the most persecuted religion in the world, and we are experiencing today the greatest Christian persecution since human thought. After a word of Seneca, we have to position ourselves optimally, I would like to conclude. Seneca, who also stands over in the column hall or at least in the Reichsratsaal, says: Don't associate with the many, but join with the right ones! That should be the foreign exchange in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20373	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. – Bitt e.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20399	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To join my previous speaker briefly: If Austria managed to pay € 170 million – be it “compulsory contributions”, as you call it or not – and thus make world peace, I would say: Great, let's despise this amount! If we manage to make world peace, that would be a wonderful concept, and I think we would find ourselves very quickly to continue in this direction. But this world is not quite that simple, but unfortunately it still goes quite by to the liberal – but it should be. [[Mr Karlsböck and Mr Scheibner.]] If you see that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to save €6 million in 2012 and if you say, Mr. State Secretary, that this savings of €6 million has been implemented and passed on within the Ministry, then I am not very happy, honestly. If you look at where exactly these savings have ended, then €7.4 million is in the field of the ADA, more than the total savings of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and once again €5 million in the area of voluntary and compulsory contributions to international, multilateral organisations, which are largely relevant for development policy. That means that more than € 12 million will be saved in areas of development policy or policy-making, and that is the double of what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs needs to save in total. I have to say that this is not the burden-equilibrium internal in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I would really like. It is perfectly clear that development cooperation is of course taking place elsewhere, not only in the BMeiA, but in spite of all this, when we look at bilateral, formal and multilateral development cooperation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I am unfortunately only ashamed of the word for many years, and unfortunately this will not be better next year. I am right to acknowledge that it has really succeeded in multiplying the East African aid. This is important and is still relevant to the budget this year. It is not that I wish that there were similar crises in this world next year, but if there were to be them, I would expect such flexibility and additional resources in the sense of disaster aid, in the sense of disaster support also in 2012 and would be pleased about that. I would also like to comment on the fact that we discussed this in the Committee on Budgets, that – politically speaking – the Paris Club has agreed to discharge Sudan. This will happen over the next three years, which will also increase our ODA-responsible budget over the next few years is somewhat exaggerated, but will make it slightly higher. However, this is a more or less random and temporary increase and unfortunately no building on the substance, not a fundamental renovation of our EZA, which, I am convinced, would be necessary. In terms of content, we have a lot of proposals, a lot of reviews, of very well-founded ideas, as we could also increase the effectiveness of our development cooperation. For example, there is one point on this question of fragmentation – you yourself said it, Mr State Secretary – at seven places of business. Of course, that is not desirable. Either you try to concentrate the EZA or you try to coordinate it better. But the way it is happening right now, of course, is not very desirable. We are partly lacking methods for meaningful coherence, we are still focusing on too many topics, we are using 150 theoretical ODA-enabled countries 136, to Part with tiny contributions. So there's a lot on the table, which would be implemented. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, I am going to carry the budget in its entirety, but the part that the EZA is about is causing me great political pain. I very much hope that you, Secretary of State, will strengthen the Secretary of State to the Foreign Minister in the future when it comes to negotiating with the Minister of Finance in order to bring out more money for this important area of EZA. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20457	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20478	€ 8.5 million is available for East Africa. In East Africa Somalia, which has been in civil war since 1989, has been meant since the end of the Siad Barre regime. €8.5 million, where the Secretary of State in the Committee could not say who would get this money, which NGOs would receive this money, where the Secretary of State could not answer how it is controlled. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schwentner.]] It probably works again so that if this NGO is controlled, it will not exist until then. I know from informed sources that this money never comes. Instead of resorting at the diplomatic level to a peace at last coming down there, the money will be given to the NGOs. That, I think, is the wrong way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The next is South Tyrol, now is the opinion of Univ.-Prof. It is clear that double citizenship in South Tyrol is not a constitutional problem – contrary to the opinion of Khol or the ÖVP, who say that this is impossible and they will not agree to it. If you give a back, let's solve this, let's take these 22,000 signatures that have made the petition seriously and let's do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20520	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20542	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The ODA quota for 2012, i.e. the percentage of GDP spent on development cooperation, will not be so bad at about 0.47 percent. In fact, however, a large part of this additional funding is raised by debt, or partly by additional funds for international financial institutions and for development cooperation within the EU. What hurts, as the Secretary of State and some of my previous speakers have already said, is the reduction of funds for bilateral development cooperation, for the Austrian Development Agency, the ADA. It hurts because of the fact that projects will really suffer on-site. It also hurts because the presence of Austria in the countries of the south and also in the east is becoming more modest, thus also losing dock stations for the economy and for the visitors to these countries. I can see the saving constraints that every ministry, including the office outside, has, the shackles that are laid there. I therefore believe that if we are to develop together, If we really want to lift work at a bilateral level, then there will need to be an overall responsibility of the Federal Government to put this issue out of dispute and say, okay, there is, no matter what one saves, a corresponding increase to comply with international commitments. I also believe – and this has already been mentioned – that it would be necessary that the Foreign Office not only have a coordination function for development cooperation, but that it would be really important to set up an overall competence for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because in principle the Foreign Office has more or less not even 10 percent of development cooperation to manage, but it has to account for 100 percent. I would like to stress and thank the Secretary of State for the establishment of the Jour, where we are really trying to get together in this House. The area between the ministries and all actors is reached, and he is promoting co-operation with each other, so that it can and will be possible, I hope that overall awareness of the need for development cooperation will emerge. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of two points from the past. On the one hand: Two years ago, our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance Josef Pröll introduced the ability to donate. At first there were only a few aid organisations, now the spectrum has been expanded, but the NGOs for development cooperation have always been involved. I do not think it should be forgotten here that these organisations can now, in the most indirect way, benefit from additional public funds. This is, for example, something that does not appear in any ODA statistics, but is an absolutely positive achievement. A second essential point – which has already been mentioned – is that the East African aid has been increased, has been multiplied. I think we all agree here that there is nothing more important to save than life. Saving life means giving a future in this case too. And especially in the area of children, it is twice as important as children who are starving are threatened by the fact that developmental disturbances may result in disabilities in their lives. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it was on 2 October. In December, an event on this topic – hunger, development disorder, development cooperation – will be held in this House. At this point I would also like to thank Franz-Joseph Huainigg very much, who was significantly responsible for the fact that this event has come about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20593	Next speaker: Mr. State Secretary Dr. Waldner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20614	Mr President. Just a brief answer to Mr Huber, because I do not want to leave the impression in the room that I am speaking for months for an increase in the special case of East African aid and do not know where or how the money is used. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] In the Committee, you mean the EZA Committee. We had the decision in the Federal Government on the same day, and I came to the committee meeting practically directly. We had just prepared the documents. I'm sure I can tell you where the money will go. And the €8.5 million is an increase of €1.5 million that has already been given in the course of the year to this €8.5 million, i.e. a difference of €7 million. Of these €7 million, 2 million come from the disaster fund, 5 million from the Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Huber: Who gets this?]] And this money is used in such a way that 5 million are channelled through the international organisations operating there, that is UNHCR, IKRK – International Committee of the Red Cross – UNOCHA, UNICEF, and 2 million through our ADA, our development cooperation agency through calls for tenders.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20657	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20678	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For years young Austrians have been doing a form of volunteer service abroad, which is not given any attention. These are peace services, these are memorial services and these are social services. In addition, there are around a hundred Austrian civilians each year who are equally active in this field. The Austrian memorial servants care for Holocaust survivors in Altersheimen. They work at foreign holocaust memorial sites, work in former places of domestic and foreign mass murder – Auschwitz, Theresienstadt, Marzabotto. The Austrian memorial servants are a great sign against forgetting the horrors of Austrian National Socialism. And it is more important than ever to actually implement this very never-forgetting thing. For Austria, it is necessary to support this commitment – outward and outward. It would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to place the memorial servants, the peacekeepers, the social servants on an independent basis abroad. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a question of how Austria is represented abroad and, on the other hand, how it can really be supported as well as social services, peace services and, above all, commemorative services. My generation belongs to the so-called crime generation or to the generation of victims. That is, the grandparents of my generation were either resistance fighters – or part of the regime in the sense of the victim's and the perpetrator's generation theory. [[Abg. There are still others!]] It's our job never to forget. The few ten thousand euros should actually be made available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to maintain the memorial service. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] It is simply wrong not to want to improve the reputation in Austria. We all have to remember all the victims of National Socialism – no matter if it happens in the parties, whether it happens outside, whether it happens in the family, et cetera. “Never forget” is the foreign exchange. In order to go back to the discussion before, I would like to pay tribute to Ladies and gentlemen: Each party has to look into its own ranks. If there is evidence that right-wing radical thought is present in your own party, then you must look at it, namely of all: of the civilian population, but also of politics and of this House. This is not about opening a debate on whether left terrorism and right terrorism are equated. It's about the victims of National Socialism. And if a party here is blind on both eyes in the sense of “on both eyes on the right” as the right camp, I find that more than embarrassing. It doesn't just need calls of order, it needs clear consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20734	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20756	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to take advantage of today's debate to address a current foreign policy issue that is causing concern, namely the continuing violent and brutal action against the Syrian population by the Assad regime. ==References== November, i.e. last Monday, 70 people died again, making this Monday one of the most bloody since the beginning of the protests. A total of 3,500 people were killed. The international community must not fail to watch this, ladies and gentlemen. The Arab League's decision to suspend Syria's membership until the end of the season. The peace plan agreed on on November and the end of violence was consistent and an important signal. The cruel approach against the civilian population must simply end. High house! The Arabic League's catalogue of measures speaks a clear language and shows that Assad is increasingly in distress even in the Arab world. A suspension of Syria's membership is, as I have said, an important step in the right direction. It is also to be welcomed that the EU has once again intensified sanctions against Assad's regime. For example, EU countries must not enter into new oil agreements with Syria. In addition, the European Investment Bank will suspend its ongoing loans to the country and technical assistance to state-owned projects. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for the EU to try to increase pressure in the UN Security Council for a joint action by the international community. It is to be hoped that China and Russia will come and agree to a joint initiative. Austria has agreed to the strengthening of EU sanctions. These decisions must now be implemented effectively. Some EU countries have also taken diplomatic steps at bilateral level. We will have the opportunity to discuss what steps can be considered from an Austrian point of view next week in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Arab Spring has brought about major changes. These challenges should be faced by the EU and its Member States with an active foreign policy. I would also like to see an appropriate focus in Austrian foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20796	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20819	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear viewers! We have talked a lot about dealing with the crisis today. What the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also have to do in particular next year is to develop a viable, good vision together with all the other Member States for Europe – not just how to deal with the crisis, but how this common Europe will look forward to the future. At this point, I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr State Secretary, but also Mr Bundeskanzler for the very good management of the crisis so far, with which we have succeeded in securing this idea of Europe, which many generations have built up before us. I believe that, with the existing foreign representations we have, it is now necessary to develop these ideas, but also to set institutional and regulatory frameworks to prevent such uncertainties from developing in the future – for whatever reason – for any reason. That's why I also thank the house. However, the house is always in the process of opening up other regions for Austria, for Europe. A region of particular interest to us is the Danube region and the Black Sea region. It was all the more important that it was also fiscally anchored and enabled to establish the Austrian Embassy in Baku. This is a very concrete step which shows the Austrian contribution in this region, namely the connection between the Danube region, the Black Sea region and the Caspian Sea, as it is just peace-political, from energy policy, from economic policy and from social policy to make a contribution and send a clear signal. Austria's foreign culture is always a very important factor in its activities; it is a subject that helps us to connect Austria culturally with other countries. The European idea, the global idea, is not only a peace policy, but also that of opening up cultural wealth to us. Thanks also to these employees who do their work for us worldwide. What is particularly important for science next year is the successful recruitment of funds in the EU framework programme. We were able to recruit 125 per cent of a 100 per cent budget, says: Every research million we are recruiting will benefit us with 1.25. That is to say, it is really calculated for Austria. I therefore hope that we will actually realize the €80 billion now foreseen for 2014 to 2020 in the EU research framework, because Austria would benefit very much. My thanks to the staff, but also the hope that they will also actively support science in the coming year.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20863	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20884	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is not only a part of the international community, but also a part of it with different priorities. If I listen to the speeches, in particular to the Members of this House, they are actually the logical continuation of what we were doing yesterday. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has discussed the beginning of the agenda. One wants to leave the EU, and now I have the impression that some want to leave the world at all if, for example, Mr Karlsböck claims that we are paying “compulsory contributions” for Austria’s participation in international organisations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] Then get it to the point! The colleague Hübner was a little more diplomatic. He said that we are “too cowardly ” to discuss it. Mr Karlsböck has put it to the fore. He said we pay “compulsory contributions” to international organisations. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Do you want us to leave the UN, to leave all international organisations, to “castle” again and to isolate Austria? – Then say it, then get it to the point! At least that would be honest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can share the criticism of development policy and the priorities of foreign policy, as Mr Bayr mentioned it, for various reasons. First of all, this is a relatively small amount of resources; it is all the more painful to save a high percentage of the money at low levels, knowing that many development projects can produce a lot of positive for the people in the affected regions with minimal resources and through Austrian technology, with Austrian know-how. I have had this opportunity several times to see different development projects, where, for example, small hotels are heated with simple biomass plants and therefore tourism is stimulated, where simple roads are built and this offers people the opportunity to drive into the city to bring their agricultural goods to the man and thus to secure their livelihood. Ladies and gentlemen! We have the damn task as a welfare state... – Yes, colleague jewelry beaters, you can probably only talk about pig policy, but I do not think it appropriate if an ÖVP delegate makes fun of development policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I know we can't save the world. But as a welfare state, as one of the richest countries in the world, we have the damn duty to focus on foreign policy. I'm just saying that: Development cooperation is an issue. But where is the Austrian positioning in climate policy, in infant mortality, in refugee aid, in disaster aid or in peace policy? Ladies and gentlemen! If we can understand that foreign policy is more than just a financial move, as we discuss it in the budget debate, our common concern that we now return some of what the Austrian population has received from the world over the past decades – I am talking about the years after 1934, after 1938, but also after 1945 – in solidarity, then we will support it to a high degree as social democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20963	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20987	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to explain a few positions in the budget chapter on South Tyrol. I think it's undisputed that the South Tyrol autonomy model is a success model. The protection function of Austria vis-à-vis the Austrian People's Group in South Tyrol has a model character. This is recognized worldwide. I also think that we can all agree to this in the House. Even if there is no directly recognizable budgetary connection with or reference to South Tyrol, there are, for example, close relations at federal level in the field of culture and education and many links with our neighbours. However, there are regular contacts between North and South Tyrol, best contacts. There are, as far as I know, very good connections between our parliamentary clubs, at least the colleagues of the ÖVP, the FPÖ and of us Social Democrats in South Tyrol. We follow closely and are interested in politics in South Tyrol. There are regular meetings on discussions and exchange of experience, as well as today a high-level delegation of the South Tyrol People's Party has held talks with all parliamentary clubs. When the South Tyrol Government comes up with wishes, proposals or requests to the Austrian Parliament, we will deal with them in best neighbourly cooperation and, as far as possible, support them. A direct interference in South Tyrol matters, ladies and gentlemen, unsolicited advice or comments are certainly not the case of the Social Democrats. Even if the initiatives of individual parties represented in the South Tyrol Landtag find their way to Austria, such as the petition for dual citizenship for South Tyroleans, they will be treated in a proper manner and in accordance with the parliamentary procedure. Of course, the South Tyrol topics they are dealing with – whether this is the current census, the elimination of fascist relics or the latest, hotly debated topic on the possible way to full autonomy, to name for example only three – are of interest to us. We are following these issues and the ongoing discussions very interested, but, as I said, without interference and even with media support. I quote Luis Durnwalder: “Autonomy will never end, as new opportunities and new tasks will always occur, especially if we want to talk about autonomous legislation and administration.” Anyone who accepts this issue honestly must also “acknowledge that after 1992 we achieved a great deal in this country”. I'm allowed to add: This was also possible because the responsible politicians did not think and act backward in borders and exclusive nationalism, but instead appeared openly, modernly and as self-confident Europeans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21030	There are no further words on the External Chapter. The discussions on this subject have therefore ended. [[18:01:50]] UG 13: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21051	We now come to the negotiation of Division 13: Justice. Mr Fichtenbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21078	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'll save time and make it very short. We are trying – and there is a request from me and my group in this regard – to reduce the procedure in the case of disputes of care and in the case of the right to visit. This would save a lot of suffering. With this in mind, I would ask you to understand the following motion for a resolution: ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Justice is invited to provide sufficient funding from the 2012 budget specifically for the judicial training of family judges in connection with the supervision and right of visit so that the expeditious practice of the assessment orders in such procedures is finally stopped and a procedural acceleration is thereby achieved.” I would ask you to understand this request and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21120	This motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21190	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21212	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Budgetary Justice: I think it is very gratifying that there is an increase in the judicial budget in 2012 too, in absolute figures by just over 3 percent. That means at least no reduction in budget discipline in real terms, very important. If the budget is compared to 2008, it can be seen that after a very significant increase in 2008/2009 of more than 11 percent and declines in the past two years – slight declines, but nevertheless, due to the financial and economic crisis – a significant increase has now been possible again. In 2012, almost €1.2 billion was estimated for the area of justice, judicial institutions, human resources and material expenditure. There are these expenditures – it is I think it is important to mention this, and very pleasing – also considerable revenue of € 812 million. That means that, in total, this is already a special feature of the judicial system, and I think, quite rightly, that there is a high level of self-financing of about two thirds of the costs. I believe that this is also the right thing to do, in principle, with judicial fees and similar measures, and also a share of the benefits of justice. The level of staff – and this is an essential point, including in the judicial system – of more than 11 150 staff can be kept essentially again in 2012. I would, however, like to go beyond the purely budget, and beyond the figures, I would also like to lose a few words on efficiency and confidence in justice, because this has been the occasion for political discussion over the last few months and years. I would also like to warn against this: I believe that trust in justice depends not only on the performance of justice, but also very much on how we, as politicians here in Parliament, deal with it. This does not mean that criticism is not allowed or even asked – where something is to be criticized – but that a flat-rate evasion, as it sometimes takes place, without a factual background, is unfortunately very suitable to undermine confidence in justice. However, trust is one of the most important capitals for a legal system. People should rely on the decisions of jurisdiction. Although they do not always agree with this in disputed proceedings and see some things differently, they should ultimately have the confidence that, according to best knowledge and conscience, they have been examined and then made a decision. Taking international studies to this end also shows that this trust in Austrian justice is well justified. I should just like to quote from a Commission study on the efficiency of the Council of Europe's judicial system, for which more than 40 countries were carrying out comparative studies in 2010. For example, it has very, very good values on the question of the duration of the proceedings – which is always discussed and criticised: Austria's justice takes the 8th place. Place below 34 European states, and almost all EU countries are worse here than Austria. The average duration of proceedings was 129 days in disputed proceedings and 68 days in extrajudicial proceedings. I therefore believe that there is a real reason here to be proud of the achievements. Again, I would like to say: Of course, where criticism is to be made, these are also to be said objectively, improvements are still to be considered and implemented. But it is always important that we discuss all of this against a factual background and do not simply ignore international comparisons. As we all know, the IT equipment of Austrian justice is also exemplary. There are many countries in Europe that take as a model the Austrian IT equipment, the equipment with computer, both in the field of the process and, for example, the base book or company book, and are also based on our standards somewhere. At the end – because this was also the occasion for discussion in the past – on whether the number of locations might be too high: It may be possible to discuss one thing or another, but this study has also shown that Austria with 1.8 locations per 100 000 inhabitants is in the good middle of the Council of Europe. I think the equipment here is simply exemplary. That is why, I believe, this is a good budget that offers all the opportunities for 2012. I am therefore also seeking your approval of this budget. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21281	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21302	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! You will present us today with a budget that will enable you to take more over fees than the courts actually cost the state. If you use a narrow concept of what the courts cost us, i.e. personnel costs, rents, operating costs on the one hand, and the court fees and the replacements of social security funds on the other hand, then you will earn – and this is, as it were, a dubious success at the expense of taxpayers – over €39 million. If one takes another concept of expenditure and calculates the parole aid – which does not belong to the court costs for me in the narrower sense – but records the fines in the revenue, then you still gain a profit of about €7 million. I think that's questionable, because fees are an equivalent to a performance. If you take more fees than you obviously spend on these services you provide, then this is in a misunderstanding. That's obvious. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is particularly true when considering the extent to which fees have been extended to the costs of the fee-payers, i.e. the right-seekers, in the last two budget-accompanied laws. I would just like to remind you of the very, very controversial fee in case of applications for a visit in a very, very sensitive subject area, which was adopted in the last or previous budget accompanying law. In the same way, I recall the court fees relating to state administration, whereby people have to pay something that they do not choose to have to deal with the court. They are controlled because they are likely to no longer be able to deal with their own affairs in health. For this purpose, fees must now be paid in the case of accounting. These are dubious fees that cause the courts to take more than they actually cost the state. I already admit: In one of the most insatiable cases of your predecessor, i.e. in the case of these unscathed high copy costs – I think it was €1.10 per page; if I remember it wrong, correct me an astronomical sum: €1.10 per page – at least pull the emergency brake and halve it. I would like to thank you and acknowledge that you have responded to the criticism of the Greens, the lawyers, the judges. I just think that you should also take this step in the other area, because the fees must, as the performance must be measured in terms of what is spent on the performance. In this sense, I cannot spare you the accusation that you are trying to increase the budget at the expense of the fee payers. This is inappropriate because the fee payers, the court fees payers are also taxpayers. The court is not a business you have to complete with profit. If the dishes are cost-neutral, then that's something anyway, but that they make a profit, I think I'm unsustainable and, in fact, also insolent. The second point – we have already dealt with it in detail in the Committee on Budgetary Justice – is the financing of the association NEWSTART and in the specific provision of parole aid. Although you – now I have to get back to the last point – take the fee payers out of charge, you have not managed to budget the association NEWART appropriately. One has to imagine that the association NEWSTART gets the same sum as the one he received last year. If you know that the staff rate is about 80 percent, this means a real reduction, because there are, of course, pay pay cuts because there are inflation adjustments there. In other words, it's really real – you have to admit that to me, that's not nice to talk about – with the €150 000 they get more, a reduction. What is more, however, is that the electronic house arrest was financed out of budget last year. This million is not mentioned in the budget – that is, it is missing! Now tell me you're going to continue the talks, and this money will be set up, as it were. This is at least borne by the good will. But I wonder: How should an association budget, how should an association make a personnel planning that does not know if it gets the money in real terms and at what level? – The electronic house arrest is a legal order. It is therefore also budget-booked and not dealt with in a style so to speak, saying: Well, we're gonna have conversations and we're gonna make the money. In this sense: Take both points to heart! That is, you should check very well whether it is appropriate in the future that you charge the court fees for a fee, that is, more than the courts cost the state. And second: To ensure a budget-guaranteed financing of the important work of the Clubs NEWSART! I would remind you of yesterday's debate on electronic house arrest. We cannot afford it – and I do not think it was yesterday’s issue, but that can happen in the future – that due to a budgeting, mistakes arise that then discredit the important instruments that NEWART uses. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21376	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21397	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, in the judicial budget, it is positive to note that we have a budget increase that goes fully into the staffing effort. This is remarkable in times like this. A request at the beginning, it has already been addressed: NEWSTART is the institution that is very positive for the execution of the sentence, which is therefore very much involved in helping us to reduce the frequency of the relapse. I welcome you, Mrs. Federal Minister, request that we get to grips with the tense situation – it is partly so that collective contractual claims are not satisfied – together in some way and make an improvement here. It would be a wish: After all, in the execution of the sentence, especially in the Jugendgericht, in the Jugendgerichtshof in the Rüdengasse – where the building does not matter, but the system has provided a European excellence – we have by far the lowest return rates. I believe that we are well advised when we try to get back here in the future and see that we are making improvements in the current enforcement practice. I think it is important for young people, especially, to see that no relapse occurs, that you get it down from the shaky track. This is certainly a time when, from personal development, one may also have the highest probability and the greatest hope of bringing about a change. In the sense of this knowledge, but also humanity in itself, I believe, we should set a special focus here. Another point is that we are currently having a number of laws in discussion, with the discussion processes being beneficially different from the past. We have succeeded in adopting, in particular, anti-terrorism provisions, which are much more precise and therefore no longer provide these large areas for interpretation, such as § 278a, where four prosecutors have decided differently on the meaning and applicability of the same standard. It is so here – and for this I thank you too – that we are currently letting § 278a evaluate, not by anyone, but by the University of Vienna, the Law. This is certainly an extremely reasonable measure. I hope that we will soon bring about a change in this provision, with the question of the person concerned – we have seen it again recently on television – of what compensation is to be done here. The procedure is still under way, but I believe that we do not have a very small responsibility here. The public prosecutors have developed progress in many areas, and we have also given the relevant legislative craftsmen to do so. The proce dure regulation has really been successful, as we now see in the first procedure at Telekom. "Whistleblower" is on the go, the Minister has also announced her support here. We have just planned and implemented an improved levy, and this will make it possible to bring additional funds into justice. I believe that we can use these funds for purpose again in the public prosecutors and thus perhaps also in the corruption prosecutor's office can cover the increase in positions more cost-effectively. I therefore believe that justice here is on a good path, and wish us every good in this regard! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21452	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21474	Mr President. High house! First of all, Mr Donnerbauer, it is not necessarily a certificate of success when it says that in one of the central tasks of the State, namely the case law – at least in the field of criminal law enforcement, part of the protection of public security – there is a high level of coverage by own resources. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: I see differently!]] Yeah, I know you see it differently. But I am saying that I see it quite differently, and the majority of the population sees it as different, because it is basically paid by taxpayers with their taxes. The central tasks of this state have nothing to do with a service and order relationship, so to speak, because no one is particularly happy to go to court, but that has something to do with the central tasks of the state being internal and external security, and for that he pays taxes. But then, when he goes again to consume or consume a central task of the state, if he is in court as an accused person, he must also provide the corresponding services to the system. I don't even talk about the copy costs anymore. I already told your predecessor that this is a scandal. By the way, I think it is too high now, in the reduced form, because they simply have nothing to do with the actual cost of copies. But it's at least once an improvement, you at least indirectly admit that this was simply overexamination and at the edge of the vomit. The question is whether there may be some adjustment to the cost of the State's services where they are presumed to be used. However, I do not think that where the citizen cannot help but, so to speak, the rightful authorities are asking him to use the taxes with which he has to finance the system in any way to pay the costs. I believe that not only do I see this, but it also sees a significant proportion of the population as it does. Mrs Bundesminister, we had a debate with you yesterday on child protection; On the basis of individual cases, Mr Westenthaler has shown you that the penalties in this area are simple and simply too low and are, in part, too transparent in the enforcement of criminal law. I have promised you today to describe a case in which I believe that here simply and simply according to the motto “One crow does not hack out of the other eye” a judge has come out particularly favourable. A judge, who looks at child pornography over a longer period of time on his private PC, is brought to court, is now in the state of illness, gets five months due to a fine of €2 250 and the requirement to undergo psychotherapy. [[Call the BZÖ: Unheard!]] [[Abg. Gartelgruber: Insanity!]] – The only thing I really understand is the last edition. But the level of punishment is scandalously low, ladies and gentlemen. This is another example where one sees that the fight against child abuse is not really serious, ladies and gentlemen, is not really serious. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] One last case, and that will be for You will become a special test case because I now know that even in your own group things will be seen something different, that is the case of Kampusch. Mrs. Federal Minister, if it is true that this case has cross-links to the case of Kührer, we have an Austrian case here Dutroux. This is one of the most spectacular criminal cases of recent Austrian judicial history, only by what is already known. If you do not believe me, talk to your own political group members who have been a little more committed to the case. Yesterday, I read in the “standard” that one of the highest officials of Austrian criminal justice, the senior prosecutor Pleischl, saw a second perpetrator throughout the scene – one has never been followed because one did not want a second perpetrator – says: “This doesn’t matter what she says,” says Pleischl, “she believed subjectively, she saw two perpetrators. So what?” – Citing. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not anyone. Mrs. Federal Minister, this is one of the highest officials in the Austrian criminal justice system. And this is not one of the most spectacular cases in the history of Austrian justice, which is no more and no less than the suspicion that a child-skinning ring has committed criminal acts and probably has not only happened in the one case. Ladies and gentlemen, if we continue to try to get the whole thing under the carpet with this hoof tactic, I tell you – I have already predicted it to you, Mrs Bundesminister – that this will become a huge stumbling block for you. You're on the train now! You have the opportunity to submit a request. They have to ensure that the competent Disciplinary Senate has to decide whether these five prosecutors, who are responsible for not having been properly researched – there are now hundreds of indications that they have not been properly identified here – are held responsible. If you don't make sure that these people are suspended, but who can even make a career at the General Procuratorate, Mrs. Federal Minister, then you are really directly responsible for it. You have already been able to scrape away a direct responsibility. This is the responsibility of your former cabinet member, who has shownly helped two prosecutors to make an untrue answer to questions from a well-known daily Austrian newspaper, namely the “Kurier”. “Kurier” has put an extensive catalogue of questions to these two prosecutors. These have not answered the questions themselves. At one time one was no longer able to answer independent questions, but one has drawn a member of the cabinet. This was stupid enough to be drawn in. I have made you aware of this through information to Members' colleagues from you, and I have said: If it turns out what I suspect, Mrs Bundesminister, then you have a problem if you keep the fine gentleman there. That's what I've heard, where else you can get rid of it. I ask you to make it clear that they are not in the state, as they did yesterday in the "standard". But I'm entirely in agreement with your clubman's head, who said: We can't tolerate a state in the state prosecutor's office! The man, Pleischl, has literally declared at a public prosecutor’s meeting – several members of the House were present –: Of course, the prosecution is a state in the state! – That's his opinion. Therefore, he decides whether a perpetrator is persecuted or not. He says to the statement of a witness who has been kept in the process of seeing a second culprit: So what? Mrs Bundesminister, you have absolutely a need for action, believe me! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] I therefore say once again that this case alone proves how legitimate our concern is to eliminate control deficits about the activity and inactivity of the public prosecutors by setting up a separate subcommittee on the model of the Subcommittee on Military Services and the State Police so that people who react in this way can lay the craft at an early stage.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21595	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21616	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me address two issues raised by Mr Stadler in the first place. They pointed out the case of a Salzburg judge. I can inform you that there is a disciplinary procedure here. Of course, I give you the right to do so, where there are errors, of course, they must also be taken up. Nothing can be turned under the carpet. There is also a disciplinary procedure, whose outcome is still to be expected. In the case of Kampusch, which you have referred to, I should like to point out that, as you have mentioned, the project report of the public prosecutor Innsbruck is currently in the ministry. He will be working there, and as it looks, we will probably be able to present a result next week. As I said, we are currently working on this, and a result will be presented for all the time after next week. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian judicial system stands for legal certainty, legal peace and fundamental rights protection. Their core task is to ensure the rule of law, of course to defend it and to ensure its quality and to improve it where necessary. In particular, it concerns the independence and performance of the case law. This also includes protecting the reputation of jurisdiction and, of course, the maintenance and strengthening of the confidence of the population in the legal system and its institutions by Mr Donnerbauer. Of course, this also includes access to the right – and this has already been partially addressed today – without discriminatory barriers of an organisational, structural or other kind. However, this also includes an effective enforcement system for enforcement of civil and criminal decisions, as well as the protection of fundamental rights and the dignity of all people in the field of legal order, including, in particular, those who are not, or are only limited, able to take care of such protection, such as children, victims of acts of violence or people who are restricted by disability or disease in their disposition. The essence of such a judicial system, as I have just outlined, is that it must not be assigned to calling tasks, to take over tasks, or to give up on call. It should also not take action on call or remain inactive. The Court of Justice is, of course, subject to the rule of law. The principle of legality, therefore, must and must only become active in the extent and in the way defined by the applicable legal order. Strong and effective justice is vital to the rule of law. Even in economically difficult times, the state and society need a well-functioning judicial system as a reliable stability factor. An essential condition for the judicial system to be able to fulfil these tasks in a sustainable manner is, of course, that it has sufficient human and financial resources. One of the major challenges in the preparation and administration of the judicial budget is, therefore, to find the right balance between ensuring the efficiency of justice in a complex, globalised and constantly and ever more rapidly changing world on the one hand and the undisputed need for savings in the use of public funds on the other. The Austrian jurisdiction, including its duties in the field of legal protection, such as law enforcement, patient prosecution and victim assistance, as well as the judicial administration, is financed in full by the fees to be paid by the parties involved in the proceedings. This has already been pointed out by a number of previous speakers. This means that only the execution of penalties and measures, including the parole aid, which cannot, of course, benefit from cost-effective revenue, will be subject to tax. And even in this area, revenue, in particular from the services of the institutions and from the execution costs of the inmates and inmates, covers around 12 percent of the expenditure. Mr Steinhauser and Mr Stadler's judicial fees are, of course, always subject to criticism, and it is, of course, also a very critical issue. It should also be noted, however, that in recent years their basic suitability has been examined and confirmed several times by the Constitutional Court. A few days ago, the Constitutional Court abolished the provision that the basic book registration fee was similar to the basic acquisition tax in case of free transfer according to the unit value of the property concerned. However, this was not about the amount of the registration fee as such, but about a fundamental equal treatment of free and payable property transfers during the basic registration. An adequate succession will have to be created by the end of 2012. With the basic registration fees, not only the registration process as such is paid, but also the priceless advantage for the economic location of Austria that the federal government is liable for the correctness of the base book stand at any time. In the center of the criticism are also the copy fees again and again. It should be borne in mind, however, that the production of file papers, file copies and other copies for the Court of First Instance is associated with considerable effort. This effort is due to the costs of assessing the admissibility of file access and the production of copies, the costs of the acquisition and recovery of files and the costs of monitoring file inspection and copying, including post-checking for completeness, integrity and correct classification of all file components and the risk of liability. In this context, I must stress that this effort for the courts exists regardless of whether to make the copy itself or to make it from the court. If the copies of judicial staff are produced, of course an additional staff and material expenditure will still be incurred. Nevertheless, I took to heart the criticism of the right-wing people and led to a drastic reduction in copy fees. The corresponding article in the 2012 budget accompanying law was already decided by you here yesterday. High House, it was also the speech of the degree of self-evidentness of the judicial budget. Over the entire judicial budget, the level of own funding is around 70 percent by means of own revenue. Justice expenditure is only 1.75% of the total expenditure of the federal government. The budgetary balance between expenditure and revenue is thus really significantly below the actual balances of 2009 and 2010 and shows that, despite increasing its expenditure, especially in the area of anti-corruption, protection and legal protection for children, justice is also very likely to be saved. The increase in staff expenditure in the estimate for 2012 compared to the 2011 federal estimate is mainly based on a change in the turnover of fiscal reform 2013 with an amount of around €31 million. The officials' salaries for January 2013, which would have been booked after the old budget account for the next year, will become budget effective as early as December 2012. The real increase in staff expenditure of around €4 million concerns the increase in costs decided in 2010 in the course of the anti-corruption package and now also expenditure-effective staff increases. Otherwise, no expenditure increases are budgeted from 2011 to 2012. In-depth expenditure is even around €1.6 million below the 2011 federal estimate. The framework for this is already laid down in the current Federal Financial Framework Act. Therefore, necessary increases in expenditure in a particular area can only be covered by shifts from other areas. In this way, in 2012, the budget for the association board will be increased from € 29.7 million to € 31.7 million, which is about 6.7 percent. This means that at least the benefits can be maintained to date, especially since no increase had been made in the Federal Estimate 2011 compared to the previous year. Furthermore, the increased need for psychosocial and legal support for victims of violent and sexual offences is increased by €500 000. This corresponds to an increase of 10 percent. Unfortunately, in the 2012 budget estimate, it was not possible to provide for a higher amount of funding for parole aid. However, the Federal Ministry of Justice is fully committed to staff expenditure for the former officials, who have been made available to the association NEWSTART as a living subsidy since the disbursement. Of course, I am also aware that the probation aid provided to a large extent by the association NEWSTART is an indispensable part of a system of execution based on resocialisation and the prevention of relapse. I am also aware that the establishment of probation aid works highly professionally and efficiently and that it is based on its high share. the staffing effort on their total budget simply has little room for savings. I therefore endeavour to make available additional resources beyond the budget available by the legislator in the Federal Finance Act 2012 for the parole aid, as already achieved in this year. For the purposes of this provision, additional revenue from the court fees shall primarily be considered. However, I could not give a binding financing commitment to the NeustART association before the decision was taken in the National Council on the Federal Finance Act 2012, even for an amount beyond the draft budget. But I can assure you that the talks with the association NEWSTART are going on. High House, in the Federal Finance Act, are not shown the reserves of the judicial resort. Since 2009, i.e. since the legal possibility exists, some €51 million of reserves have been saved by savings in expenditure and not to cover additional expenditure. 25 million of these are reserved in agreement with the Ministry of Finance for the coverage of additional expenditure for the planned new judicial institution Salzburg. Part of the reserves will be used in the coming year to finance investments for structural improvement, in particular in the IT sector and in the execution of penalties and measures. How much that will be depends on the outcome of the 2011 budget implementation and on the revenue development in 2012. The rest of the reserve is needed as a provision for any unforeseen expenditure that could not be taken into account in the Federal Financial Framework Act and in the current budget. The most state-of-the-art services of the resort are determined by laws and regulations almost completely. Most of the so-called discretionary expenditure is absolutely necessary in order to fulfil the tasks assigned by law and cannot be controlled by administrative measures in the short or medium term. Overall, I am convinced that the judicial budget for voting is in fact balanced and meets the constitutional requirements for economy, economic efficiency and effectiveness, even if I would of course like to have more resources available for the judicial sector in order to make more rapid and extensive progress in organisational and legal projects to further improve legal protection, legal protection and enforcement. I am aware, however, that such an important core area of government must also be covered by economic circumstances. I therefore allow you to pay particular attention to the judicial budget and to ask you to make such a decision. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21758	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21779	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With the increase in the budget in the field of justice by €35 million, a total of €1.186 billion will be available to the department next year. The legal protection and access of the population to justice have absolute priority in the work of Austrian justice. For good reason, the population can have confidence in a functioning, independent judicial system. But it must also be clear: These excellent achievements of the Austrian judicial system cannot be offered free of charge. This is the only way to achieve the really remarkable level of self-covering of nearly two thirds on the other side. It seems as if the old wisdom iustia non calcucat does not develop in the field of Austrian justice. Justice, ladies and gentlemen, has always taken care that procedural and administrative simplifications take place and that optimizations are implemented as quickly and efficiently as possible. This is happening continuously and still very successfully, for example in the area of enforcement. In at least 400 cases, people were equipped with electronic footbands. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in these times, an absolutely important item in the budget is the increase of the funds for the Central Public Prosecutor's Office in the pursuit of economic criminal and corruption. This strengthens the confidence of the population in justice and the Austrian rule of law. This Central Public Prosecutor's Office has created and established a law enforcement body focusing on the necessary competence, expertise for a qualified but also efficient persecution of major economic and corruption crimes. It has been produced in some way with the same level of arms. This is a very important step and undoubtedly a trusting measure towards the Austrian population. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian judicial system stands very well in international comparison. Civil law processes are being handled quickly, faster than elsewhere. The infrastructure of the Austrian courts can be seen. The staff, perhaps the most important point in Austrian justice, is highly motivated and committed. Unfortunately, the fact that justice is still coming to the fore then and when it comes to talking is mainly due to politically motivated calls from one corner or another. I would think that some would be of good service to justice, but also to the Republic, if instead of these politically motivated calls for up-to-date procedures, they could develop an interest in genuine, honest justice policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21822	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21843	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Jarolim – I don't see him right now – has once again put the question of Jugendgerichtshof in play. I think it is, of course, a SPÖ project, a SPÖ child, but it does not stand by the comparison objectively. What was in the time of the Jugendgerichtshof, so to speak, in the rest of Austria? Hasn't there been a criminal trial of youth justice? Were these judges in the rest of Austria so much worse or different from those who worked at the Jugendgerichtshof? Now also: The judges of the Jugendgerichtshof have remained the same! It's the same judge! Are they, at once, just because they maintain the negotiation in another place in Vienna, different, worse qualified? Have they, therefore, taken other, worse judgments? - No! It's just about: There has been a saving measure. In particular, a presidential and an alternate office was saved, and this obviously bothers some in the judiciary because there is less career posts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can take care of justice in the second area. Whenever the opposition proposes savings measures such as the combination of health insurance funds or the like, this comes across deaf ears, which is not even understood. The population does not understand one thing: that judicial guards and other staff in the judicial institutions find bad working conditions, not even have a lot of jobs and armchairs, but vice versa for our sitting criminals besides drum groups, music therapies, asylum and foreign law workshops, oriental dance, Tiffany work, snail therapy – thereby snails are put on it, which one must then scratch; in doing so one loses aggression – now also yoga exercises are organized! The population itself does not understand that. [[Ironian hustle and bustle of Mr Brosz and Mr Oellinger.]] – Mr Oellinger, do you dream bad again? Their nightmares are legends anyway. I therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21925	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21987	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22023	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We know how this is done in budget discussions. However, I would just like to take up the comments made by Mr Rosenkranz. Mr Rosenkranz, the problem is not just the court, but the problem is the following: We have had a solution where the young people and the adults were housed separately, and we have had all the special facilities there. That's the real problem. And if you look at it internationally, you won't find any experts who say it's good to have the adults with the young people in the same house. [[Abg. Lausch: There was this in Vienna,!]] – But you know exactly, Christian Lausch, that this is always a problem, even with us in the Josefstadt. First point. Second point: Mrs Federal Minister, we have debated this in the Committee, and I am really pleased that this development is being seen as a result of the execution of the penalty in the countries of the home country and thus of the extension of it, because this is an important measure to discharge our judicial institutions, where there is still a need for action. The discussion is an eternal one, an ancient one. The medical part in a judicial institution is a very big and a very expensive one. The discussion of what you make internally and what you make externally is just as old. Now is what § 21 para. 1 StGB concerns, with the opening of asten a small area has been regulated, but when you look at the total numbers, what § 21 para. 1, but also § 21 para. 2 StGB concerns... – It is really a problem with the entire medical care. We all know what statements and permanent hospital surveillance cost, Mrs. Federal Minister. I therefore believe that we should continue to do so, because there is still a need for action, namely, on the one hand, as regards the discharge of colleagues, on the other hand, of course, as far as the budget is concerned. The discussion of the level of coverage could also be discussed from the other side, i.e. from that of the judiciary: If justice had not been a criminal offence, there would have been no cost, then everything would be covered. But I think it's important that we don't lose sight of one thing together: I think we have had a very advanced, modern sentence over many years, and we should look, also in the interests of our staff, that we are always equipped accordingly, because otherwise this is carried out on the back of our colleagues – from the judicial guard to the special services. I would invite you to do so and ask that we also do not lose sight of these open points and carry them out.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22063	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22084	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Rosenkranz! For areas of anti-aggression training, I believe we do not need to look towards justice, for which we have sufficient examples in the room – and then, when we look at your ranks, we are again close to justice. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the subject of Jugendgerichtshof. You know, you really have no idea. This is not a SPÖ prestige project or whatever you called it. It has been shown that youth assistance, youth jurisdiction, but also youth enforcement, need conditions different from adult performance. There have been many problems in the transition from the Jugendgerichtshof Rüdengasse to the Landesgericht, which I would like to say to all of you now. It's quite clear, and not just... – No, I'm not unsuspecting, I'm from the trade! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: What was in Salzburg, Linz?]] [[Abg. Listen, you're unsuspecting!]] It was quite obvious in Vienna that there were problems in the jurisdiction of young people, which arose from the fact that there was no court of young people's own courts. [[Abg. Listen: Politically motivated!]] Against this background, I clearly support Mr Jarolim's wish to continue to think about it. The predecessor of Minister of Justice Karl was quite far in her mind. However, I would like to come to a very different subject, namely the protection of children or the protection of victims, which we discussed yesterday. I want to roll up a little chronologically, which would be necessary. That was mentioned yesterday. The first part, where you, as Minister of Justice, have the least opportunity to intervene, is prevention. As the Ministry of the Family is in demand, the countries are in demand in the field of youth welfare, the Ministry of Education is in demand in the field of schools, the awareness of educators, but of course justice and home affairs are also needed in the area of awareness-raising of their officials who have specific dealings with people. They're coming and saying something happened to me here, and there's been events here. The second chronological area is the moment when children, young people or adults say that I really want to proceed in court. There is the very important and very good establishment of process support. However, we also know from various parties to the process support that the means provided for this do not suffice in Weitem that there are many cases that need to be rejected, that there are many institutions that cannot offer the process support at all, let alone the very necessary networking and training of the process companions that are being used there. I would like to make a very urgent appeal to you: With all the need for saving that has already been tried here in the last few days – and you yourself have drawn here, so to speak, what a good, modern justice must look like –: What must not happen is that the protection of children and victims must be saved, even more so than it is now! This is my very urgent appeal, so that all those children, young people and people who need support in the course of justice – where they can really talk about the experienced for the first time and need important support, even when meeting with the lawyers who apply different criteria, when psychologists do so – get the necessary support as well. The dark figure comes from the people who are not even looking for the way to justice, but the dark figure is also due to people making bad experiences there and no longer go to court, police or prosecutor. The third area is the support of the association NEWSTART. Mr Steinhauser has already said this, and I would like to support it once again: We need a clear set-up of this association, especially in the field of parole aid, but also in the area of electronic house arrest, because, as the colleague has already said, we cannot afford to make mistakes due to under-doing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22162	Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22186	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a residential speaker, I would like to briefly address the areas of rental law and housing property law that belong to your resort. Budgetary relevance in this area with regard to housing and rental rights is mainly the rental contract fees which must be reduced in the medium term. However, I know, especially in view of the tense budgetary situation, that every cent is being reached and that this is located in the financial sector. It is also a major problem of the right of residence that it is so divided into different resorts. In any case, these rental contract fees are very expensive in many rental contracts. This is actually a rental tax. In particular, the temporary contracts are on the rise. These already account for over 60 percent and become more and more the rule rental contracts. I would like to say a few basic things about the rental law. ==References====External links== In November 1981 the rental law was decided here in the house and is then 1st. ==References====External links== At the time, it was certainly a cornerstone in the political struggle for sustainable housing for a large part of the population. It has taken into account all those who worked in this area. This law made it possible to create socially viable rents and also to stimulate new construction activities. Nevertheless, I think that today, in view of the social situation and above all the income situation of people, it is necessary to develop the right to rent in a timely manner. A very big problem for all legal users is the large fragmentation in this area, namely in the full scope, the partial scope and, above all, the large full-use area, where the rental right no longer applies at all. Therefore, I believe that rental laws have always been protective laws and must remain so. But I think there are obvious injustices in the law that are historically justified. There are intrusive contracts, ceilings, supplements, deposits, many, many things that are discussed, covered and regulated. Certain stakeholders are no longer allowed to block any regulations in the future. I think there's a lot of legalism to solve. The right to rent has enough questions in this area that we need to solve. But one thing is clear, and that is, I think, recognised by all the experts essentially: There must be a price protection, protection and a termination protection. In any case, there must be legal certainty, fairness and transparency. And I think the discussion on such a rental right must be started. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22238	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22259	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, to address my previous speakers briefly, because in the discussion about the budget, the Rüdengasse appears again and again: It's a pure policy, you have to hold it. There is always the opposite of a building that there has been a better care there. Mr Rosenkranz said the right thing: In all eight federal states in Austria, there was no such thing, only in Vienna! There's no worse care for young people since it's not taken place in the Rüdengasse anymore, you have to say that stun and clear! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that this issue is being raised over and over again in the budget, namely by red and green, is legitimate, but, of course, fad. It is always the same and it is always very tearful that it is located here only on the building Rüdengasse. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Federal Minister, save yes, but not at safety! Save You prefer to buy free leisure activities and save us such newspaper articles as in today’s daily “Today”. You'll know this: “Total relaxed! Now we pay the prisoners also yoga”. – This may relax the prisoners, but very uneasyly respond to such newspaper articles the staff for whom you have or would have to be there as a service provider. Mrs. Federal Minister! With such news articles You certainly do not strengthen the confidence of the people in justice, but quite the contrary: rather weaken; and I do not think that you have brought your party leader for that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, let me say briefly what you have done in the answer to the question, for which you pay: First help, conversation, application and so on, various sports offers, you can read there – but actually not only for young people, but for adults –, graffiti or drawing instructors, football trainers. Once it was Christian Keglevits, national team player, now it is Marcus Pürk, a former player, certainly not cheap. He plays football with the young people in the Josefstadt. You can explain this once to a family or a single mother, who may have to pay €900 a month, which will be used for tax money – at least the public money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Further: Guitar teacher, massage teacher, yoga; there are manikeurs, a nail designer and, and. You can explain this to the population! Then, even if Mr Schönegger has said that justice is not to be made so bad, to cover, to hide a lot and so on, not to wonder about such news articles, not even the ÖVP. Because that can't be it. We're worried that you'll be back at safety, saving staff. For this reason, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22353	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22414	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22435	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! One word to my previous speaker: Mr Lausch, we're politicians, and we're not Schrebergärtner. That's why I don't understand when you're talking about a "politics." We are politicians here in this area and represent political interests. [[Abg. Listen: Yes, but it comes the same every year!]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A clear word on the question of access to justice, Mrs Bundesminister. The main problem we see in the deliberations is – and this is also confirmed by statements by judges – that the costs of access to justice have increased, less in the field of civil proceedings, but primarily in the criminal field. The acquitted animal protectionists in the process in Wiener Neustadt are currently facing costs of €300 000 per person. On the one hand, these are legal costs, procedural costs, but of course also the costs of experts. I mean, it's a question of justice that we come to a solution here that people who are acquitted also get an adequate cost replacement. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This must apply to everyone!]] A second statement I would like to make to a previous speaker from the Austrian People's Party. The question of how justice is criticized is not always based on a politically motivated call. In many cases, justice itself is responsible, Mrs Bundesminister, and we hope that these shortcomings will be overcome. I don't want to see any more states attorneys forget file and delay crime, I don't want to experience any more cases that proceedings take five, eight, ten years. There has to be an acceleration here. If I look at the figures at the Justice Office and at the Public Prosecutor's Office, I have to say that the accusations of the people seeking justice have increased in recent years, and we are really asking you – here you have in the Social Democracy Alliance partners – to create new conditions here and in particular to provide for a legal position for judicial offices in Austria, just as it is planned.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22486	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22510	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to address an area where I think there is an urgent need for attention, these are the expected changes in the criminal procedure. This is not only because there are these misunderstandings between the Parliament and the public prosecutor in the extradition proceedings, but because I experience from my observation that, although with the change, the prosecution has the lead of the procedure, it must act as a general without troops. This can't go well in the long run, and especially if the prosecutor's office is completely on the brink of what's to be endured for them. - That's the one point. The second point concerns right-wing extremism. What I am aware of is that the judicial system has endeavored honestly to take seriously all the proceedings in recent years – and there have been and are some – into account. I would like to express my express commitment to the judicial system. However, what I also note is that – and this is related to the question of one – the investigation results that the prosecutor receives and which then lead to charges are often completely inadequate. So there is, in part, – this concerns an authority, the constitutional protection – completely insufficient investigation work, so that one can only be surprised that, despite this poor investigation work, the judicial system actually falls to an extreme degree. But, in fact, this is an intolerable state. Now I come to the point of right-wing extremism in general. If here in the House a Member of Parliament criticizes a party, other Members, a President of the National Council for accusing him of a right-wing extremity, then I think that must be allowed. If we cannot do this here – and I say to you the example for it – to criticize the fact that a President Graf invites a Mr Pendl who has been certified by the Constitutional Court that he has been properly called up as a University Council and that it is part of the basic understanding of this Second Republic – that is, in the statement of the Constitutional Court – that the uncompromising rejection of National Socialism is a fundamental feature of the Republic that came back in 1945, I tell you that this remark of the Constitutional Court is not by chance in it. If this Mr. Pendl, who receives from Mr. Graf a medal or a private order, says at a burger's meeting in an internal civil dispute, the use of the Vienna academic Burschenschaft Teutonia for the agreement of the citizens of the Federal Republic of Germany and the East Mark, and he says that in 2008, then I say that there is fire on the roof, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If Mr Graf believes that he must honor this Mr Pendl and a painter with a medal, a painter who obviously works in the tradition of Arno Breker, then Mr Graf also has a problem. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Do not criticize this here, but go to court!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] And then it must be legitimate to also say that not only was there a right-wing extremity honour here, but he was also honored by a right-wing extremity.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22587	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you want to provoke this point, but: It is constant practice here that with such remarks to other Members, in this case also to the President, we do not blame each other's extremist attitude – and this is still groundless. For this reason I give you a call for order for the multiple accusations of right-wing extremism, including my person. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Wittmann spoke next. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22626	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! I think you didn't like this show because he told the truth to you about the BZÖ. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That was another party! Not BZÖ!]] But first of all, Mrs Federal Minister, I also believe that this is a balanced budget. You are trying to set up the funds within your framework so that I believe there will continue to be a functioning judicial system and, essentially, all the secondary services are served. I therefore believe that the budget itself is fine, although there are some construction sites that are also disturbing me, because, I think, the reform of the preliminary procedure has not been as successful as it wanted. Cooperation between investigating authorities and prosecutors does not work as smoothly as it should. I believe that these points of attack are right for the public. You can't simply forget a 150-page display, you can't let certain procedures be delayed. These are attack points that are made public, and they have to be stopped. But I trust that you will be able to make it clear to mercilessly here and to speak it too. Of course, it would be all the more important to occupy the missing posts in the corruption prosecutor's office. I also know the problem here, but it's high time you occupied it, because you're at the public's point of view with giant procedures, and there can't be that you have too few people to process them. There is a subcommittee in relation to the public prosecutor's office and how to evaluate this reform, since I do not want to presuppose, but both the approach with the state prosecutor's office seems appropriate to me and the approach to parliamentary control, only, with these two systems one has to deal with. I am not so averse to that, even this parliamentary control has something for itself. I think you should think more about it. But I have a concern that I absolutely want to hold on to at this point. We have permanent complaints that the right to visit will not be decided. There are 277 procedures that last longer than one year. If one considers this in the right of access now to withdraw one of the parents for a year, that is not feasible. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] We've been promised to fix this for three years. It would be high time. I know that this is not the yellow of the egg, but I am now also inclined to the view of my colleague Fichtenbauer: If we really do not think anything else, then a decision-making obligation should be laid down by law after half a year, because I think we need some solution to this question. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] If we have been promised a different solution or approach for three years, then come with a different approach! I would also like to discuss another approach, but you can't wait a year. This cannot be expected of the children, nor of the parent who is affected by it. This should be given a solution quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22702	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22723	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr deputies, ‘I am not a hellseer’!, your predecessor told me in the previous year at a question on a question concerning budgeting for the board of directors. I would like to point out today that your work, Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Karl, seems to me to be much more competent. When I asked you this question in committee, you have been able to answer it very expertly and quickly. We are grateful for the fact that, in view of the difficult budgetary situation, it has been possible to increase the funds by 2 million to 29.7 million. But they were also sincere enough to stress, Mrs Federal Minister, in the Committee that these funds will not be sufficient in the future, because the tasks are increasing significantly. It doubles the tasks of the board of directors. By 2020, we will have about 80 000 citizens in Austria. All the more thanks to the principal and volunteer officers are that they are still dealing with these problems. And I can also promise you, Mrs Federal Minister, that we will try to make these problems a positive one for the people we care for. A problem that has already been raised repeatedly lies in the fact that we have removed the ceiling of the number of clients in charge, for example of 25 per lawyer that was introduced at the time. This, of course, leads to a qualitative loss and a loss of care intensity. There are many complaints about which, for example, the People's Procuratorate has also reported to us. Just for the victim's help. Austria is particularly exemplary in psychosocial process support, and the funds are also increased by half a million. We know, however, and you too, Mrs Federal Minister, there is a huge challenge here, because of course this will not be enough. Let me conclude by saying: In view of the close financial framework, which is also subject to the judicial budget, we wish you much success in dealing with the unfinished tasks that the population expects! They have spoken today about the need for the people to have confidence in the legal system. We expect you to continue to work hard on it, and we will You're happy to support it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22774	I am no longer in favour of the division of justice. This is the subject that is being dealt with. [[19:16:02]] UG 14: Military Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22796	We are now entering the first debate on sub-division 14: Military affairs. Mr Fichtenbauer spoke. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22820	Mr President. High government bank! Entry and sensational reflection on the ever-increasing hatreds of the Greens towards FPÖ bring me to the chapter National Defense to the point that we have the comprehensive national defense, including the intellectual defence. The spiritual defense is thus required to oppose the emergence of a kind of "feliks-Dzierzynski-Fraction", which knows nothing but the unreflected hatred of others. This, by the way, concerns everyone. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With a view to saving time, I would like to concentrate on the following motion for a resolution: “The Federal Minister of State Defense and Sport is urged to pay particular attention to the fact that the savings measures planned by the Federal Army and pilot projects initiated by the Federal Government do not go at the expense of the feasibility of the constitutional tasks of the Austrian Federal Army.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition: Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you went into some sort of trap. On the occasion of the 2005 Budgetary Support Act, it was decided that the funding of the costs of the Eurofighter and the maintenance costs outside the Defense Budget must be carried out under the terms of the Federal Ministers for Defence, Economy and Finance. As of 2007, this execution order has not been carried out, but it has been transferred to you as the responsible party of the share, but with the no longer controlled effect that, because your ministry has apparently received so much – quoted – nevertheless, in relation to all previous years, the share of the defence budget in the gross national product has fallen continuously. So we landed at a percentage of 0.63 percent. That's bad. I hope that, according to the statement that hopefully a real political result of the evaluation committee, at least half of the costs for the Eurofighter after 2015 will be left to the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22882	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22950	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22971	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) €2.1 billion for the Federal Army, for the state defense, that sounds a lot. We know how much this is in GDP, we know what the needs of the army are, what the restructuring of resources calls for, so it is not difficult to conclude that difficult times are coming to us. But I believe that this Federal Minister, whom we have, is just going ahead with the will of savings and the will to reform and is making what we have to do in Parliament possible. I would like to comment on a few small examples. Mr Fichtenbauer has already referred to the Eurofighter Council, which was to be covered by the previous government, then under bowls and grasses, to which defence budget was never allocated, but rather extra-budgetary. We know it was different. But we know from this government of the time when something else came than it was promised. That is why I am not really annoyed today, but I am glad that the Federal Minister succeeded, at least half of the rate, in making about €120 million for the future, that it has not been completely deducted from the budget. That means you have 120 million more at your disposal, and I am sure that they will be used accordingly in the sense of the task of defense. If we assume that we have also imposed a savings pressure of € 530 million on the Minister of Defence by 2014 – we have decided together – please what? – yes, we have decided – then I should like to say to the Minister of Defence – and I would ask colleagues to take care of it once: [[Intrusion of the Abg. List]] [[Abg. List: 3.5 percent minus!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Where is the Chief of General?]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany List]] It's easy to look at the Minister of Defense, but we should also send him a little bit with respect. I'm not saying, with praise and grant. [[Abg. List: You don't believe what you're saying!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I say this quite consciously because I know that it is precisely the Eurofighters who are in our defence budget with part of the dilemma of the finances. But by saving three planes, in whatever form, and with all the criticisms that have been put in place here, it is actually so that in ten years, 600 million euros will be saved. And we will still get €120 million each year, because it was possible to achieve something left of this promised rate. In this way, the Minister finally achieved Parliament's saving mandate with a surplus. He is congratulated on this, and I hope that this money will be used in the way I expect from a minister, namely to increase the efficiency of the army, to improve the possibilities of fulfilling the mandate, and to improve the structure, which is ultimately a guarantee that the financial interests in the army will eventually be affected in such a way that the order can be fulfilled. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] If I think that the mission can be fulfilled, ladies and gentlemen, there is another small point that gives him the chance to make more money. Grassers and platers have said that 1 billion € by property sales – this was recommended by the Commission and decided unanimously by all of us. We now know that € 1 billion can't be a speech, it will be € 400 million. It has been 180 so far, and now it is also a matter of ensuring together that the properties still available for sale can also be sold. It must then be so, ladies and gentlemen, that every Member takes responsibility. But it should not look like Stefan Prehauser is standing in front of the entrance gate in the Schwarzenbergkaserne and says that this barracks must not be closed, and a colleague of mine is then in Gmünd and says that it must not be closed, and in Tamsweg we have the same thing. [[Abg. List: But my barracks was closed!]] I don't want to list any barracks here now to prove that I know them too. It is simply a matter of considering together with policy in the respective regions, in the countries outside: Where do we put the pen that we ourselves have imposed and decided together? We should not let the Minister of State go to the wall for each individual measure. That is why I ask for understanding and solidarity. We can only work together to ensure that the Commission's 2010 findings are finally implemented in this area. After all, we have reduced the army in the strength of people, we know that the infrastructure has grown too large. We need to see that we make the best out of it, and we must not like the fact that we still prove barracks that we want to sell with monument protection before, because this is especially “commercial” and “economic”. I would warn against it in the future. Such examples are already available, we have already made these mistakes. Let's try to avoid them in the future, but let's go ahead. Then we are also able to make our contribution to the fact that the security of Austria does not fail at least in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23077	The next speaker was Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23115	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We're more in committee. The answer to just asked questions, where our military and security spokesperson Dr. Peter Pilpsei. We have more people in the committee, and I find it clear again and again. That we Greens, in particular, are talking about women on typical men's issues and that this is also important. As a woman to talk about a typical men's theme, of course only one thing remains quite clear, namely the proportion of women in the Austrian federal army. 372 women – that's only 2 percent of women in the Austrian German army as soldiers. That's too little. There are always big words in the public to increase the proportion of women in the army of the Minister of Defence. In this respect, we have also put a small budget request, namely: What concrete measures are to be implemented with how many financial resources to increase the share of women in the force on the international average in 2012? And the answer is: Of course, I strive to continue to increase the proportion of women in my department, especially in the Federal Army. However, the costs resulting therefrom are not included in the budget. Such an answer is more than embarrassing for a body with regard to 2013 and the gender budget, which is constitutionally anchored. There's no plan. There are no measures. There are not even ideas for introducing a dynamic women's quota. There are no ideas on training events, on training, otherwise it would be clearer and clearer to say here. And to the difference one example in which he as Minister of Sports on the question: What funding is provided in the BVA 2012 for the promotion of women in top-level sports?, clearly answers: With the budget item of € 300 000 there is a funding programme under the Red-White-Red Team. This means that for women in top-level sports, for the promotion of women in top-level sports, much clearer measures are apparently put in place and there are much clearer plans. Despite large international deficits, women in the Federal Army do not have a plan of action in this respect, neither do they have an action plan nor a budgetary impact on support. That means saying big words, but having no plan behind them is too little, and there I am in yesterday's distrust: Women belong to the team for a variety of reasons, something has to happen at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23169	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Maij-Weggen. 5 minutes speaking - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23191	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Prehauser has already pointed out in his speech that in view of the need to save, we are undoubtedly faced with major challenges, but at least we have managed to raise €54 million more in money in order to meet the tasks of the Federal Government. I also believe that with this budget available, the Austrian Federal Army is able to fulfil its constitutional tasks accordingly. It will be a major challenge both for the Minister and for his generals to implement these challenges also in the sense of the mandate and in the sense of the Constitution. All the more so, I'm glad to see the re-established Chief of Staff Entacher at the audience gallery. I welcome you, Mr General, and wish you all the best in this challenge with your soldiers. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Is he here?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We've already heard, we're in front of a consolidation course. We have to save € 530 million, and of course this is not only with the reduction of corresponding personnel in the German army, but it is also necessary for us to make restructurings with the Austrian federal army. From the point of view of the ÖVP, I can also show the willingness that, together with our coalition partner, we want to make necessary reforms in this Austrian federal army. [[Abg. Grosz: I thought you were misguided! You can't even rely on distrust!]] This is beyond doubt because we have always said that we also want to play an active part in the implementation of the 2010 federal reform. And this is also done by maintaining the obligation to do so, and this budget has also been assumed and, on the assumption that we will continue to maintain the military service in the future and will also carry out the task with the soldiers and with our recruits. Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, I have criticized you for getting into these pilot projects, so to speak, without involving the coalition partner. We have also asked you relevant questions that have unfortunately not been answered in our view of God satisfactoryly. On the contrary, they have led us to see even greater confusion in the question of how to proceed now, because you answer Question A in this way and answer A differently with B. That makes it very, very difficult. My colleagues, who are still following, will also address what I mean in this case. We are concerned to point out that even without additional funds it is quite possible to make savings in such a way that the appeal of the ground defense service is also ensured that we can continue to maintain and use a militia that, as it were, can effectively carry out their tasks in the event of need. I believe it is possible, even with this budget, that we can reward the staff of the cadres, and that we have enough funds to carry out appropriate arms exercises. However, this must be organized in such a way that the Austrian federal army can actually fulfil its tasks under the present circumstances. The pilot projects that you have in mind are not financially covered from our point of view, and we therefore warn against participating in experiments that are not covered by the financial and possibly constitutional nature. That was also the warning I sent to you yesterday, which I maintain today. We are concerned with the security of Austria. Safety must not become an experimentation field. I believe that the task you have on the part of Parliament or also in the coalition is quite a reason for working with what we provide financially, with what we can make available to common resources, in order to ensure the security of Austria, because it has the highest priority in all our political action.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23264	The next speaker is Mr Deputies List. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23285	High house! This federal government is tough. Red and black are again pressing for an important decision. The Federal Government capitulates before the question: Are we obliged to do so or not? The question of compulsory military service is no longer a matter of public opinion. It will not be discussed like a hot potato from now on. The government operates a flagfleet. This shift in the population survey is problematic, but it threatens the federal army to stop for another two years. Necessary reforms are being put back on track. However, the next vintages that must be called up will be eaten properly. This is about the future of some 75 000 to 80,000 young men. These are supposed to lead a senseless military service. With your postponement of the popular survey you hinder the personal planning of the future of these men. Here about 80 000 male citizens are abused for their party policy tactics. This is unresponsible, immeasurable and must not happen in any case. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The removal of the military-compulsory population survey shows that SPÖ and ÖVP have long since resigned as a security party. [[Abg. Amon: But go!]] This responsibility has already been taken over by the BZÖ, also with the federal army of the future. Most countries in Europe give the professional army a chance. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Who wrote this to you?]] The BZÖ responded quickly. The abolition of compulsory military service is a security gain for comprehensive national defence. Accordingly, we have developed our model. We demand the immediate suspension or abolition of compulsory military service. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] We from BZÖ demand an efficient volunteer army for Austria consisting of professional soldiers, the so-called professionals, and a strong military component. The volunteer army is the future. With our 10-point programme on security and defence policy, we create the framework for the necessary and long-term overdue federal reform. Dear ladies and gentlemen, take over the BZÖ model! Letter They keep “SPÖ and ÖVP” above it, provide it with your party logos – and the federal army reform can start immediately. [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] The liberals as a copyer party are also stopped to copy this program. On the example of the Federal Government, one sees the government fighting. We from BZÖ work for Austria as a guarantee of protection and assistance.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23354	For an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Darabos. - I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23376	Mr President. High house! I'd like to get some things ahead. Unfortunately, Mr Fichtenbauer is not here now, but: I hope the tender bands we tied up yesterday don't hurt him. [[Abg. Grosz: Where's the roofer? Ah, he's here anyway!]] At the beginning, I would like to address his short sling towards Eurofighter. In 2005, Darabos was neither a Minister of Defence nor a Social Democratic. The provision that no arrangements have been made in the budget, which was promised before the Eurofighter purchase, should be addressed to itself, namely to the black and blue government that ruled between 2000 and 2007. In principle, I believe that this purchase is a very expensive one. You all know that. But now, so to speak, putting that in my shoes is a bit cheap, I would say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second point concerns the Greens. We have set up our own Gender Mainstreaming Office in the Ministry. That's not what happened before. You are a partner for me on this question. That's not a problem at all. I'll tell you on the verge: Unfortunately, in Austria there is only one female share of 2 to 3 percent. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, sir!]] For example, the experience in Sweden, which now wants to introduce a professional and professional army, and which is to implement it, now shows 15 percent in the voluntary reports in Sweden. So you could also, as it were, light this question from this side. If you're here on my side, thank you, I'd be glad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I am really, I do not say that cynically, because there have been other opinions in the Greens in earlier times, where we have said that women have not lost anything at all in the federal army. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: But I haven't lived there yet!]] But I am grateful for your speech. If you say you stand by it and you want to expand this share of women in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To Mr Maij-Weggen. Mr President, I should like to thank I am grateful to you for defending this consolidation path of the entire Federal Government here today. I listened very closely to you because I wanted to know if you were on this side. I'm on this side. [[Abg. Dolinschek: The blacks are not left!]] The budget is negotiated with the government partner ÖVP. It has been negotiated in detail with the Minister for Finance, who does not belong to the SPÖ, and I am in favour of it. I'm glad you mentioned this today. That is why this is an important clarification for your part as regards the overall saving and consolidation objective in the Federal Government, but also, of course, in the Austrian Federal Army. I can only tell you about the pilot projects. You may not be so satisfied that, in my responsibility as Minister, I have this opportunity. Just as the Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner, in order to give an example, in her responsibility, can and will implement projects in her department, I will also do so with the pilot projects. I am moving on the floor of the government programme, and I am moving mainly on the floor of the five-party decision of this House. ÖBH 2010 was decided in 2005 and it is clearly stated that it is also intended to continue in this direction. It should be no more and no less. I would like to take this emotion out of this question, and I am willing to answer the questions as well, and we will discuss these pilot projects as soon as they are ready for implementation, of course also with the coalition partner, with the ÖVP. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I would like to say to the BZÖ: Thank you for the willingness to reform! I hope that you will carry on. You are also a partner when the Austrian federal army is transformed. Just blaming me is a little cheap, I'd mean, 'cause I'm trying to change it anyway. [[Abg. Grosz: The problem is just, you suck with it!]] I have no problem at all with this if you support me. It is rare that the opposition parties support a line of government, in so far as thank you for your support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Who has as managing director...?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. List.]] Now to the budget. There has been very little talk about the budget so far. I should like to point out today that, of course, we are facing a difficult situation. It is not true that you are sitting in the glass house or in a glass tower, but so that there have been developments in Europe that have come from the USA to Europe. These developments must result in us having to take a consolidation path at the budget, and we are also taking him to the Austrian federal army – it would be wrong to disapprove of that. We have available €2.24 billion for sport and national defence for the coming year, of which €2.1 billion is for national defence and € 138 million for sport. It has already been mentioned that the budget has nominally increased by €54 million. But it has fallen by €3 million in real terms by a measure that I will come to speak on a short notice. It is true that, like all ministries, we have introduced the salary payments for January 2013 into the 2012 budget. So it would be missing and wrong to say that we had a real increase. We have a real decline of €3 million. However, we can also note that we are at the level of the previous year. I can tell you that the funds are scarce, but they will be sufficient to fulfil the tasks of the Austrian Federal Army. With these €2.1 billion, we can ensure the safety of Austrians. It's money that's well laid out, as I mean. With these conditions, the Austrian Federal Army will continue to be able to fully fulfil all legal orders at home as well as abroad. We did the best in 2011 – and it wasn't a small one. We have established from January to June the so-called Battlegroup, the EU crisis fire brigade. We evacuated Austrian citizens from Egypt and Libya with the Austrian Federal Army without much attention, but with professional work. We've done over 8,400 flight hours with the air forces. We have also established an assistance for Lower Austria and the Burgenland not only – and I am referring to it yesterday – but also made a significant contribution to more internal security and stability. Civil protection is the most demanding task for the population. If you ask what the Austrian federal army stands for, then about 90 percent of the population say, it is important that the Austrian federal army stands for disaster protection. We have completed over 41,000 hours of work in the field of disaster protection this year, which is about to end. I am proud of this, and the Austrians are also proud of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: But do this to the recruits!]] With one word, we are everywhere where protection and help – our motto – is needed, we are also really present. The training is good. You can't talk about that. You all said yesterday that the Austrian federal army is very well positioned. The equipment can withstand all European comparisons. The infrastructure is constantly being modernised. In my term of office, €2.5 billion has been invested, directly into the force. The highlights are: 150 new multi-purpose vehicles; the renewal and vitalization of the radar system “Goldhaube”; the new combat suit, a long-standing demand of the force, will continue to be delivered to the force; the new CONRAD troops radio system; new sanitary containers for the C-130 aircraft in order to also create more safety for the force; the acquisition of 15 dingos in ABC execution; the acquisition of heavy pioneer equipment for our pioneer team. To the Baubudget: A total of €420 million has been invested since I took office, and we will invest at least €63 million in infrastructure next year. When we get rid of what we hope for – and I assume that this will succeed – from the property sales, we get €83.2 million. This is a high value, a high value in the history of the Austrian federal army in absolute numbers. I'd expect more, but it's a performance that we're going to meet with and we can signal that we're investing in the infrastructure. From my point of view, this should be recognized here in the House. We now have 1,500 soldiers in foreign service – far beyond our previous strengths – with two hotspots, in Lebanon, on the Golan Heights and on the Western Balkans with Kosovo and Bosnia. The Austrian Parliament should be proud of this not only of the German government and the Austrian population but also of the Austrian Parliament. In any case, I am proud that we have 1,500 soldiers on peacekeeping missions abroad and have also covered them budgetfully. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That means: We will also be able to lead the German army professionally with the 2012 budget. We'll make sure it's a modern army. In contrast to some opinions in Austria, we are envied in the international connex about our team as regards modernisation and procurement. As this has already been mentioned several times today, I would like to conclude by saying: There are armies in Europe, in countries that, like the UK and other conservatives, are governed, whose budget is reduced by 20 to 30 percent. [[Call the ÖVP: Now it's long! I'm going to be fat!]] As mentioned today, a moderate reduction of 3 percent over the years is envisaged in Austria. That's reasonable. We will continue to maintain the performance of the Austrian federal army in the future. I thank the coalition partner for this. We've negotiated this together. I would like to thank you for deciding on this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23557	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Reported on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23589	Mr President. Valuable Minister! Appreciate members on the government bank! High house! Minister Darabos has just shown how efficiently the budget resources are used, the tax money of the Austrians, in the Austrian army. The members of the opposition have previously expressed great regrets about the fact that much less money is now spent. For example, when the liberals were in the government, 0.74 percent of GDP was used for the Austrian federal army. Now it is 0.76 percent, and for the coming year we have 0.77 percent. The comparison makes you sure. [[Abg. List: 0,68!]] In my opinion, it is political detachment when some speak over and over again of how bad it is for the Austrian federal army – instead of looking more closely at where changes are needed. [[Abg. List: So you really have no idea!]] – Mr. Liste, with your speech, which you obviously made on 26 March. We won't be much further on October either! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. List: But it was good!]] The Austrian Federal Army has been in demand of imagination and creativity for many years. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, exactly!]] [[Cheerfulness of Members Kickl and List.]] When you talk to employees, you always realize that the commitment, commitment, inventiveness there is really very necessary so that the tasks and services can be implemented efficiently. This means that the commitment and passion for the Austrian federal army are felt by all employees. There are now also new ways forward-looking from the management of the department. The possibility of switching officials from the Ministry of State Defense to the Ministry of Finance has been available for several months, for which there is also great support and appreciation. There are also new ways to the interior. Even if you may laugh now: The new lease of the hunting areas also brings in money and, in my opinion, is a sign that one is thinking about commitment, creativity and imagination. In order to fulfil its tasks, such as combating cyber-crime, protecting strategic infrastructure, the Austrian Federal Army is in operation every day. These tasks are fulfilled with imagination, creativity and commitment. Ladies and gentlemen! The foreign operations show that we can be internationally successful as an Austrian nation, because it is precisely the training and the use that are used very intensively. The money that is available is used so efficiently that we are used in the European field, but also in the UN field as a sought-after partner. Ladies and gentlemen! Support is required. Political amnesia should put you ad acta.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23680	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23702	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maij-Weggen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. You probably take the same formula that the Minister has applied when he has calculated the model 3. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 0.6 percent of the gross domestic product – that is fact, that is the military budget. To my colleague list only one sentence: Dear Kurt, if that comes from you as a professional officer that you demand professionals, I ask the two officers sitting there in the back, if they don't see themselves as professionals. [[Abg. List: It's logical! It's got to come from you the same way!]] We liberals say we have professionals in the federal army that thank God, in all degrees of service and in all areas. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister! In the absence of time, two sets to the budget: As yesterday, I take out two sentences from the explanatory notes to the Federal Proposal: The existing budget ensures “limited maintenance of the Federal Government’s operation” and “limited consideration of infrastructure maintenance requirements”. That's all there is to say. Federal Minister! You yourself have written it in the explanations of the budget. Mr Federal Minister, “great reforms” are celebrated, but it is not a great reform for us liberals and it is not a great achievement to abolish a total of 1,070 soldiers in the officer and sub-official sector, while at the same time including 861 civilians, in a place whose most original and original task is still the constitutional task of military national defence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say it quite openly: The motivation and morale of the force is also at a very bad state due to Mr Darabo's missing policy. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we owe this to the officers and officers, but above all to all the soldiers who do great work.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23772	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23827	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23848	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Darabos, the Federal Minister of the Interior, has been presented in a very good light for a very long time now, and he has praised himself, could be said. He was also praised by speakers of his group. [[Abg. List: Can you even talk?]] The Minister will not expect me to join in this praise, but is now quite, I suppose, in expectation of some critical comments, and I would also like to make these critical comments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] It is well known that as a military officer I have a special heart for the military and I also believe that the militia is a very crucial part of the army. For this to happen, it is not the subject today – that is only necessary – that is also the general obligation to do so. Minister Darabos commissioned a series of pilot projects in 2011 with his instructions 226. One of them is a volunteer militia based on the model of a volunteer army, with annual exercises and a corresponding premium as an incentive. In order to examine the professionalism of his management, we wanted to know how this so-called military premium is budgetaryly secured: What approaches is it in and what level is it in? We have made a request to the Minister and have received an answer to this question: The pilot project creation of a military premium is carried out in accordance with the current legal framework. – No, I can only say! And on top of that: In any event, recognition premiums are provided for, which were budgeted under VA approach 1/14107, VA item 7241. - Quote. I would call such an answer professional or even provocative. [[Abg. Silhavy: And ÖVP Minister...!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] It becomes more interesting to look behind this approach. This is an approach that – compared to the 2010 accounts – has been reduced by € 4.7 million in 2012. So far, so beautiful – but its own experts calculate that the militia premium would cost about €10 million per anno. I wonder how such a premium in this approach should be accommodated professionally. The Minister has remained guilty of this answer. This can, of course, have something to do with what the Minister has learned by now, which is called Tarnen and False in the military jargon. That could have to do with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, – and therefore the Federal Minister may still need to learn – one deceives the enemy, but not the Austrian Parliament. One does not deceive that constitutional body, which is also called for the control of the office of this minister! [[Abg. Grosz: motion of censure, isn't it? Isn't it?]] Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, this is already a serious matter. I come from the corporate world and tell you: If you were the Chairman of the Board of Directors of a company and would present the Supervisory Board with as little professional planning as this and if you were so sorry to hear the questions of the Supervisory Board or of Supervisory Board members – if I said so so salopp – would be uninvited and some of the Supervisory Board would feel deceived, then the consequence of this would probably be that you could not hold this function for long. [[Abg. Grosz: motion of censure! I mean, these are serious accusations!]] Now, of course, I also wonder how the Austrians see it. There is an OGM survey of the “Kurier” of 14. November, according to which 49 percent of Austrians have lost their confidence in you, Minister Darabos, and only have more than 29 percent confidence in you. [[Call at SPÖ: Has this survey been conducted by the Sparkassenverband?]] Mr Federal Minister, you know, it can be completely indifferent to you whether I have confidence in your office, but it should not be indifferent to you whether the army of your office is trusting. [[Call at SPÖ:Is the survey from the Sparkassenverband?]] However, the fact that the Austrians do not do so must not leave you untouched. In such a situation, Mr Darabos, I would become very considerate of whether I managed the department as expected by a Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23991	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24026	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. General Chief of Staff! Unfortunately, I don't have anymore There is enough time available, my speaking time is too limited to deal with you and the budget. That's why I can only say one thing: I think I announced my opinion yesterday about your office to the satisfaction. That's what I'm standing for, and I'm staying there. I should now like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24077	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24144	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24173	Mr President. Dear Minister! The gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Ikrath, I have to say: They have now given a embarrassing example of how to deal with this delicate question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Above all, you have also shown how you are currently seeing the coalition. I can only wonder how you come to such statements. [[Call at the SPÖ: It has more confidence in the...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Mr Ikrath, Federal Minister of State Darabos, gives us reason to praise him for the achievements he has previously listed. Even if you do not want to believe this, my colleague, but many achievements have been done by our Minister over the last few years, and they could only be done because he had many things to do with what his predecessors had done to him. Speaking of Tarnen and Falses – Mr Ikrath, you mentioned these expressions –: I do think that some of the representatives who were at the speaker's desk earlier, especially from ÖVP and FPÖ, are trying to use blend grenades to stay in the military jargon, to divert from their own mistakes and failures in the past and now to hang out to our Minister what your ministers have broken, and that is what he has to do now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We didn't make senseless tank sales, we didn't buy any ominous Eurofighters, and we didn't bring forth any inflated staff, especially in the highest level of service. And all of this is the millstones that our Minister Darabos has been hanging around the neck. And, of course, they also have the greatest burden on the budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Despite the precarious financial situation in our country, our Minister succeeded in fixing the 2012 budget for the army to at least the same extent as in the previous year; the increase of € 54 million is only due to the higher expenditure for staff. However, I would like to say very positively – and this concerns the entire term of Minister Darabos – that he is increasing funds for the soldiers, so to speak, for the fighting force, and does not throw the money out of the window for the absurd war toy that no human needs. Modern clothing and equipment as well as a modern renewal of accommodation in the barracks are also included in the budget in 2012. The fact is what sometimes goes down in the general discussion on the army: The offensive investments of the Ministry of Defence in the equipment of the Force, especially in the renovation and renovation of the construction of barracks, are not only important for the future of our federal army, but also create jobs in the important construction industry and by-products at an economically difficult time. Thank you, Minister! Please keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24232	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24268	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer to the comments made by a colleague from the Greens who has justified why, as a lady, she is here at the speaker's desk, saying that it would be good if we were to deal with this issue of men from the women's side. I would like to put quite clearly in the room here: The Austrian defence is not a ‘;men’ theme’, but a theme for all Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And this issue is being completed by both men and women, as soldiers and soldiers. [[Abg. Grosz: ‘ brought to completion’? What do you want to do?]] And we serve the whole country of Austria. And I think that's quite, very important. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the Federal Minister who mentioned here – and I have felt that he has already mentioned it for the second time – that it is really his concern to carry out pilot projects on the ground of the government programme. I am very pleased to hear this message, but I also understand Mr Ikrath when he has previously responded to the parliamentary question you gave us during the budget debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] – Mr Collegue, stay calm! The following questions were raised: How many people in the training service are to be used for system holder functions in 2012? – That was my first question. Second question: How much percent of his time should a person be employed in the training service for system maintenance functions? My third question was: How many system holder functions should be replaced by PiADs? To all these questions I received the following answer: With regard to the fact that basic processing is still being carried out, I would like to understand that concrete statements cannot yet be made. Mr Darabos! Unfortunately, this is not a confidence-building measure, and it is therefore important to us that we again address the principles of the Constitution : [[Abg. Grosz: And what do your ministers do with opposition requests?]] Point one: The federal government is responsible for the military defence of the state. Point two: It is responsible for the use of assistance in the context of internal security. Point three: It is responsible for the assistance at elementary events. And point four: It is responsible for providing assistance abroad. All of these four points are identically side by side. This is particularly important for us – and not for individual points to be selected out here. Federal Minister! On the ground of the Austrian federal constitution and on the ground of the current government programme of the Austrian Federal Government you have our full support.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24333	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. 3 minutes speaking time.– Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24355	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There's no perfect army! – This is a statement that our Minister of State has already met. And there's no perfect army. That is, it is constantly subject to a process that is also revised. [[Abg. Kickl: What about the Minister?]] If you look at it now: Who's expected to be in Arab space now? Who expected the terrorist attack in New York? And who expected the fall of the Berlin Wall? – There are other challenges that the federal army must face. And it is legitimate to think about how best to react to it. [[Abg. Rädler: “Meshed in Stone ”!]] New, great challenges are in place with the army, and I also have to say that all women and men in the Federal Army are doing excellent work. For the evacuation of some Austrians in Egypt and Libya, I can only tell you: There were some countries jealous of our federal army in view of how we solved it there. Or: The 180 soldiers who participated in the Battle Group together with the Dutch, the Germans, the Finnishs and the Lithuanian forces. Austria has become so strong that it will be so that Austria will take over the logistical leadership next time. While I can't really befriend you with the term "Battle Group", because "Battle Group" actually says something else. But there is nothing but peacekeeping measures, reconstruction measures and humanitarian operations and rescue operations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what kind of people do that? – These are not basic defense servants, but specialists who are already working in the service of the Minister. It is important for the Austrian population – and I agree with you through this – that disaster protection is ensured. Since 2007, Federal Minister Darabos has invested more than €2.5 billion in equipment, renovation and procurement of new things. As part of the budgetary resources, it will also be possible to carry out the pilot projects, which he has very well announced, which have been prepared on the basis of the results of the Federal Force Reform Commission. Thus, the Austrian German army is on the right path to the 21st century. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24407	The next item is the speech by Mr Kößl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24444	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! With this budget, the Austrian Federal Army is able to carry out its tasks in 2012. While savings are planned in the order of more than €500 million by 2014, in any case € 54 million will be available for 2012. This is a very positive aspect in itself. It is true, however, that these existing funds are just enough that the federal army can also fulfil the tasks it actually has to fulfil. It is therefore important that these funds are used in a meaningful manner. on the one hand, in the equipment; You mentioned different things. But, of course, it is also necessary – and that is a very important aspect for me – that basic defence training be modernised accordingly. Here, it is really necessary to take more money into their hands so that the present servants, when they leave the Federal Army, can say that there has been an added value for them. I am sorry that we have not been able to discuss sufficiently the pilot projects in the Committee. They have pointed out that much is still in progress. But I am confident that you will also do what you have announced, namely agreeing with the coalition partner on these pilot projects and bringing them into a reasonable common line. In conclusion: It is important, as has been said, that these existing resources are used for equipment and staff training. It is very important that all those who serve abroad for Austria are well-trained and well equipped, and I hope that this money can also be implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24477	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schickhofer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24499	Austrian Social Democracy is clearly committed to a strong, powerful and peace-saving German army. I believe that this is manifest in budgetary development. If you look at the year 2006 – black and blue orange, colorfully mixed – then you can see: That's where the national defense budget was 1.7 billion €. Now, under Norbert Darabos, it's €2.1 billion. [[Abg. List: 2,24!]] I think that's what anyone can calculate: That's €400 million more! This expresses a commitment to the federal army, I think, very clearly. In addition, Federal Minister Darabos deals very well with the resources. €180 million in reserves were created, which can be used for the troops at the right time for sustainable investments. He tries to get the optimum out in all areas through efficient use of resources, is a pioneer in the field of administrative reforms, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance. I think we can be proud of that! [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] We can also be proud that, through this efficient work, we are able to present a disproportionately large army player in foreign operations that we are really pioneers in the peacekeeping missions. Especially in Bosnia, Kosovo is very important for stability in the whole region, in our neighbouring countries. I think that is the right way to use the funds for security. But we can also be proud of the activities of the Federal Army in the country, I believe. We have a great system in the field of disaster protection. In short: To our federal army is left! The necessary investments will also be made. In one word: We stand clearly with our Minister, and we stand as the Federal Army! Finally, I would like to say: I am neither ideologist nor educator to be able to look at the various advantages and disadvantages from the point of view, whether we are obliged to do so or not. I am a business administrator, and on this basis – I hope there are many partners in the field of the ÖVP or in other parties – it is clear to me that: If you can achieve something better with the same use of resources – the seven models have been very objectively assessed, and it has been found that the voluntary model is a better model than the current model of military service – if you can achieve this goal with the same means, you have, I think, taken a good course, then that is the right direction. If you are also able to avoid a compulsion, to motivate volunteers and to create new income opportunities, that can only be right. I think it is a good opportunity for workers to make a confession to the Republic in two weeks' time, and at the same time to generate a good income. So I'll tell you quite honestly: You'd wish otherwise, but I'm very glad that our Ministry of Defense is not led by an emotional fighter, but by a rational thinker. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24561	The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24582	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. General! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To say it again stoned and clear: The budget is €2.24 billion for the coming year, and we will decide together on this budget, but the gaps are, of course, in detail. The challenges are great, the tasks too. But understanding of this cannot always be seen, both here and not always outside in the population. Now I just want to tell you one thing: I was with the Austrian army exactly 20 years ago. I was a 14-month-old soldier. That was the year we had the Yugoslavia crisis. Mr Stauber – I do not know if he is still inside – you have addressed the subject of the interception hunters, other colleagues too, and you have said how unnecessary and bad it is. I had my basic training with the pioneers, then I was in military music for 12 months. I attended many military and civil celebrations, and at that time the politicians of all the parties who gave it at the time unanimously conjured in their Sunday speeches: We will always see that the Austrian state defense is well equipped and that we have catch hunters! The people in Carinthia, the people in the Styria were clattering at the time when the plane flew over! They were grateful and happy that someone was there who was well equipped. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I swore to myself at the time – not realizing that I will once stand in this house at this place – that I never forget. And what I feared at that time unfortunately occurred: Some quickly forget what they promised the citizens at that time! That's what I wanted to tell you: As fast as accesses change, ideologies also change as quickly as possible! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the budget naturally depends on the subject of compulsory military service, no question. I don't want to be a polemic review of this right now, but I just want to go straight with a few representations, accompanied by a few thoughts. On the one hand, we know from many calculations that a professional army is getting more expensive. We know from other assessments that it will not be so easy to give people a voluntary enthusiasm for a professional army. There are already examples of this across Europe and beyond. But we should be clear about one thing: We may no longer have the military threat scenarios, as we once had them, but we must not forget that we also have terrorist threat scenarios. And this is also a question of securing infrastructure. This is about securing the transport routes, the electricity supply, the water supply. We must not forget that every household used to have a well. Today, households hang on cable networks, almost across many of our federal states, and there is a need for manpower. This is what you think of, ladies and gentlemen: how you bring together a manpower with a professional army, how you want to guard with a professional army of airports, railway stations, electricity plants, water plants and much more, much more in public institutions, up to municipalities, ministries, country days and so on! - You can't do that! You can't make this invoice. I could say a lot about it now, but unfortunately time is not enough. Just so much: It is also about the social benefits that have to be provided, and much more so. I think we should talk about these points very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24651	Next speaker: Mr Köfer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24673	Mr President. Federal Minister! As the son of a soldier and mayor of a Garnison city, I naturally follow the discussions about the savings potential of the Austrian federal army. I am of course aware that everyone has to save, we also save communities. This does not increase the sympathy of those concerned, but we also have the responsibility for future generations. Just as we organize our savings programmes in cities and communities, the federal government is also forced to respond to the coming crisis. The question arises whether it is really useful to state by the year 2014 a savings potential of € 540 million. The question arises whether the constitutional order can be fulfilled at all. Minister Darabos is more than innocent in this budgetary development, but despite these requirements he has succeeded in saving cost-effectively and investing in the equipment and inventory. If you've listened to my colleague Ikrath, who meant he can't find a word of praise today, you have to ask: Mr Ikrath, where were you at that time with your courageous comments, with your criticism of your own party when it came to the acquisition of sinfully expensive aircraft? You didn't hear anything from you back then! If you make the current and future defence budget, it must be noted that it will be heavily burdened over many years by the questionable purchase of Eurofighters by the then Federal Government. Mr Höfinger, you have said that a well-equipped federal army is desirable at Sunday's speeches. But this has never meant that this will also lead to the compassion of barracks. If only the annual operating costs of this aircraft of €60 million are calculated, this investment in this supposed air traffic control corresponds to 1,800 jobs of soldiers, which may also mean that sooner or later, entire garrison sites are at stake. And this scenario, dear Mr Ikrath, will have you to answer with your party! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I recognize budget consolidation, I become our Federal Minister, but I also fully subscribe to our federal army. Therefore, efficiency in the field of disaster protection and foreign operations must not suffer from the intrusion of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs. Finally, my sincere thanks to our hunter battalion 26, which has significantly upgraded the 41 000 working hours that the Minister has called, and which, with its exemplary commitment in the last few days, has been active in the various forest fires in Upper Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24724	No one is reporting on this. [[20:21:53]] UG 14: Sports
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24745	We are now coming to the second debate on sub-division 14: Sports. I call Mr Kickl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24770	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The attempt of the Federal Minister of State Defense and Sport, his various political behavioural inconsistencies, especially in the field of national defence – keyword: the rounding-up and the rounding-up in the area of professional army on the one hand and on the second, the scandalous course of the deposition of the Chief General of Entacher – to connect with the categories of professionalism and reformerism, may well be described as a failure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was a shot in the knee. I think you've recognized this yourself in the meantime: That went well. And I also regret that these two categories, professionalism and reformerism, in your second field of activity, namely sport, only have limited permissions, ladies and gentlemen. In contrast to the federal army, which you want to ruin with a diabolic joy for ideological reasons, there would actually be a systemic change, a systemic change necessary and appropriate. The area I am now talking about is nothing but the promotion of sports. You know as well as I do that there is one, as I would like to say, devastating, devastating report from the Court of Auditors on the existing system of sport promotion. We're not talking about a little budget break. As far as the federal level is concerned, this sport promotion is one of the main components of your sports budget, and the whole is supplemented by corresponding subsidies from the countries. That means we're talking about a proper budget volume. The way in which this budget volume is planned, also planned and granted by you, has been taken apart in the truest sense of the word from the Court of Auditors. This is about the fact that there is no agreement between the promoters. There are overlaps, double conductivity, double promotions, red tape to an unprecedented extent, lack of efficiency and lack of objectives. This Court of Auditors report, ladies and gentlemen, has such a weight that you can't even ignore it again. And then you went here and announced a corresponding reform of sports promotion with much Tamtam. That was a few years ago. In the meantime, many, many months have moved into the country. You've done something like a kind of secret action, where obviously a few initiates, a few proporz-esoterics from the sports area are on their way, who, under the cover of a reform of sports promotion, among other things, might have been commissioned by you, do not question essential areas of sports promotion, as it exists, and expressly take out of this reform concept. This is precisely something about the criticism of the Court of Auditors. There is talk of the fact that there are completely meaningless overlaps between the umbrella associations and the trade unions, and I do not understand why you do not raise the potential that lies in there and why you do not go here and do at some point what all sports experts in this country tell you, namely to question the umbrella associations in the existing form. It doesn't need sports. They only need your officials from the red and black camps to find a field of activity next to politics or politics. In fact, sport is not helped, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since you are sparse in this area, it will also be true that sports promotion 2012 is inefficient, partly double paid, is not targeted, with which casting can be awarded – all that is also appropriate in the Court of Auditors report as criticism. We will see if it will be better in 2013 then, but if you are not willing to intervene in this bureaucratic area then will They are also further inefficiently awarded as parts. A word about the anti-doping campaign, which is also very, very important to us, so that it doesn't mean we don't make any proposals where you could get money. Personally, I am not quite clear with all your burning confessions as to the fight against doping, why in the Olympic year 2012 you will equip the NADA budget for the anti-doping authorities as you did in the non-olimpia year before. An Olympic year, you know very well, requires an increased control requirement for the athletes. This is associated with costs, and the money has to come somewhere else, from another area where it is missing. I would suggest to you that, in connection with the financing of these additional controls, access to the EOC once again. The EOC is expected to have considerable resources. After all, they have paid a penalty, so to speak, in the post-level, as a follow-up to this entire doping scandal, of a million dollars with ease. I would suggest that you look for the way to the EOC and ask for an appropriate contribution from there. This would also be part of a compensation for damages which would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24852	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24873	Mr President. My sports minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear colleague Kickl, on the one hand it doesn't really surprise me, on the other hand, I find it really sad that you are so much at the roof associations, just against better knowledge. In reality, you want to dissolve them, but you don't say that openly. The valuable work that happens there is priceless! How many thousand volunteers there offer the best possible sport and care, from children to seniors [[Abg. Kickl: But we don't need your officials to do that!]] I find it really bad and irresponsible how you deal with it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's the real thing. The gratifying budget figures for the sport – and no one can discuss it away – are known. They are the important financial basis for unserious umbrellas and professional associations and the entire organized sport in Austria. This is planning security, which also enables forward-looking work. Our Minister of Sport will certainly bring the essential figures and also facts into his report, so I do not want to stop. I just want to say: Unlike Germany, where the sports budget is currently being reduced by 2 million, we can expect and work in Austria with well over 130 million. In contrast to Germany, where individual ministries withdraw from the co-financing of sport, the areas, health, education and sport are more closely linked to us – for example, the keywords of interministerial working groups or the Health Austria Fund in the health field. A comprehensive initiative will be launched with the preparation of the National Action Plan on Movement, commissioned by our Minister for Sport. The World Health Organisation and the European Commission explicitly point to the high importance of exercise for health and call for more attention to be paid to physical activity at national level. And exactly with this NAP movement, we're full of it. We must work together to bring movement and sport even closer to the children and to the young people. I would like to describe it with the well-known phrase: The early bird catches the worm. [[Abg. May. Worm: Oh, that's it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] We must succeed in integrating the excellent working associations – Sports Union, ASKÖ and ASVÖ, the disability organisations, such as ÖBSV, ÖPC or the Special Olympics, which I would like to thank very warmly for their work at this point – even more into the school range of movement and sports. The new leisure education could also be a key and a door opener for it. We must bring our students, but also teachers, closer to winter sports in all its diversity again, if necessary also mandatory. We need to give more space to athletics in school sports again. Many schools have built a lot of money for athletic systems, but some of them have broken down, some of them are not used and lost. I just recently observed in a primary school in my district when harvesting hazelnuts, that they actually exist on the ball blast system. There is so much to do, ladies and gentlemen, and there are incredible opportunities to work with children and young people. All these challenges are waiting for us, they are supported by the Minister of Sport, the Minister of Health and our education ministers, partly even demanded, but at least supported. The money for this is available, so there is nothing to prevent us from working together on implementation. – Thank you, Minister of Sports, for the team at the Ministry of Sports for your work! I'm looking forward to the coming year.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24938	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e24960	Mr President. Let us try, on the one hand, to keep these two points of view – roof associations on the other hand in severe criticism, on the other hand, than the only miracle - a little bit apart and look at what is actually the situation. If you, Mr Federal Minister, even wanted to put a focus on reforming sports promotion, then it seems that not everything is wonderful, otherwise there is no need for these priorities. And that also shows a little bit of the problem. It is, I believe, undisputed that the roof associations perform services in broadband. Now you can still discuss how great it is that you also have to set a political sign in sports in Austria where you go. I think it's an obsolete situation. But what is offered serves broadband with certainty, the question is only whether this is enough if you are doing sports promotion more widely. It is remarkable that the sports budget is probably the only one of all the budgets – at least I didn't notice – which has the advantage of getting more money from the lotteries on a continuous basis. If one looked at it objectively now and measured the success of top sports in recent years and decades, I would not have noticed that there would have been a special spread of the particularly good achievements that also have a model character. I have recently looked at an Olympic documentation on “Sport Plus”. That was quite interesting: In swimming there have been medals relatively often, athletic medals have been there again and again, but this has been relatively long since. There have been associations or sports that have gone down pretty much from performance sports in Austria. Now you could say: Okay, one is the performance sport, the other is broadband, only one knows that, of course, the performance sport has a great impact in so far as success is observed there and young people are motivated to engage in sports. I can say that about my sport. I'm from tennis. I was active in youth work at the time – in 1995, as a model in Paris – and at that time there was a giant boom in Austria. There have been a lot of young people who have come to tennis clubs. The South City was always a subject. What is the situation today? – We have the melzer as a single fighter with the gentlemen, we have a lady under the first hundred, and that is relatively little in width for what has come there. Now the question is: Why is that so? And why is it much better in other countries? I believe that an essential dish is the question of school sport, which is absolutely right, Mr Krist. The problem, however, is not only that the plants rot, but the big problem is that the plants are not open either. We have a sports infrastructure in Austria, which is very strong in the school sector, and the schools, when I calculate the holidays together, are closed about three and a half months a year. Just when the young people have time to play sports, if one can make offers at the sports venues, the schools are locked up in Austria. Mr Walser told me that he was trying to make a model right at the border of the legal person, how to use the sports venues with association cooperation at the schools in summer. I don't understand. I just don't understand. I do not understand why two ministers, even from the same group, Minister Schmied and you, are unable, at last, to solve this problem, to come to a cooperation, to also take money from these means of sports from me, in order to enable and say a cooperation of associations: In summer, we open the sports venues, we open up the opportunities for students to get in there! So let's leave it with this: Breeding is certainly well covered by the roof associations. In the area of priorities, I am basically on your line. I'm really excited about what's coming out of this model. I fear that the focus will remain relatively little. They have reported to us in the Sport Budget Committee that the World Cup is being promoted in the river swimming. Now I wonder if the rafting, not necessarily known to me as a special sport, should receive special support from federal sports funding. So focus yes. I just wanted to respond briefly to what is still missing there – I hope it remains inside – namely the independent control of sports funding. That's where we're so ready that we should have this for years. Finally, there is a sense of fairness, and I hope that it will come to Parliament relatively soon. The colleague, Mr Kickl, is right: It's been announced for a long time. I also do not understand why there has been so little information and involvement so far, but perhaps it will be even better. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Gerstl, who has been annoyed at Mr Darabo's reply, that he is right on the one hand. Unfortunately, I have to say that the requests made by the Minister of Sport and the Minister of Defense are really among the worst in the house, that they leave most of the information open; I can also prove this in several cases. On the other hand, however, we must also say that there are also incredible answers from the ÖVP, Mr Gerstl. - I don't know if he's still there now? - Ah yes, back there! I would ask that if one rightly criticizes this, there are not only government parties who can ask questions, look a little at what your ministers are doing, and we are trying to reach a standard in the house, which is such that requests and responses are taken seriously. [[Abg. May. Gerstl: What do you mean?]] – It is about the quality of the response of ÖVP ministers. Who we think is relatively simple to say: Fekter is a good example, the Ministry of Finance. Let's take it first and try to get better data there once. If you criticize this as a government party, you should at least be so far to say that this is a right of the House, and that must include the opposition parties, and you should take a look at your own group too.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25001	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies on jewellery miners. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25023	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the sports budget, we have an increase of almost €8.5 million with around €137 million. More money for sports, however, must also be called more expansion of the sporting activities and the possibilities of movement at our schools. To this end, we from the ÖVP Parliamentary Club - This autumn, together with the Sports Union, we will be able to hold a survey, a club quest, where we have been able to talk very carefully with experts on this topic and have also come to the expertise that we need to maintain our youth's health in schools. The present budget provides a solid financial basis for the structures in general in the field of sport, whether it be federal sport promotion, top sports or also the 14 000 voluntary sports clubs in Austria. Investment in sport is ultimately expected to occur as a prevention in fiscally worse resorts, as well as in the health sector, where we can avoid a lot of damage if we already invest a little bit before. That is why I think it is absolutely necessary for more cross-border work in this area, especially in the future, with the Minister of Health. Initiatives such as the development plan for movement or “Fit for Austria” are certainly particularly helpful. However, schools with a sport focus are also supported with around €334,000, and the action “Moving children healthy” is also supported by around €2 million. I ask you, too. Her colleague Schmied is even more involved, because the two projects “Fit for Austria” and “Moving children healthy” are covered by the special federal sport promotion and make it difficult to finance the other measures in this special federal sport promotion. I really ask you to involve your colleagues even more in the future. Especially in the field of school, we still have some questions with the introduction of leisure education in the afternoon care, since this programme is not as great as we would imagine. In order to maintain our children's health, we consider it absolutely necessary, especially in primary schools up to 14 years of age, to raise the units of movement in schools to at least three hours a week. Finally, I would like to say that the most important piece for the future financing of sports in Austria is the reorientation of federal sport promotion. This will soon be presented here in the House, as you promised us in the Sports Committee, and we will have a lot to discuss here. The goal must also be to maintain the full autonomy of sport and above all to recognize and support the great work of the umbrella associations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25068	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. The total period of residence of your group is 2 minutes, and I am setting it up for you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25089	Federal Minister! Matter Sports is very often consensual, and this is in the interest of sports as well. But today, in these two minutes I still have, I have to re-express my disappointment at the progress of sports promotion. In spring 2010, you promised us high and holy that sports promotion will come to Parliament in autumn 2010. In autumn, you meant at the beginning of 2011, and now almost a whole year is over until the 6. Octo- There was the last Sports Committee. In this sports committee you have announced to us, in the next few weeks it will be ready. Six weeks have passed since the Sports Committee. I look into the post office every day. There's nothing coming, Mr. Minister. There's no new sport promotion. And now I'm really wondering what it's all about. It can't be true that you've been promising us in every sports committee for two years, but sports promotion is coming up again. But now we have to pay back the funds from the budget of next year on the basis of the old sport promotion that nobody wants. I think this is an absolute humbug, and you also know our criticism of the fact that the controllers, by means of control, supposedly a pseudocontrol, so to speak, commit the means themselves and control themselves. That's not a system. Mr Darabos, I am now quite clear to you: If you don't make it, tell us! If you do not promote sports for a wide variety of economic, social and political reasons, then we do it ourselves in Parliament. That's what I'm proposing. If you do not submit the model to us in the next two weeks, Parliament, namely the Sports Committee, will meet in the truest sense of the word. This will be relatively easy. We will set up a subcommittee and renegotiate sports promotion here in the House, decide whether you want or not. Because we do not like it any longer that you are going around Parliament with this sport promotion on your nose, Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because nothing else is it. You're tough here, not just juicy, but backward. Because you know very well that sports promotion, as it is now set up, simply has no future, because it is simply not a system of the future. Tell us at last when sports promotion comes into Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25144	For an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25165	Mr President. High house! Mr Westenthaler, you do not need to pick up. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Get together!]] It's not a sport. That's why you can ring, that's a sport that's also recognized. But I would like to be right to Mr Kickl, even if you are now surprised, with a restriction: The system which the Court of Auditors rightly criticised did not come into being in my term of office, but was before. [[Abg. Kickl: You didn't force anyone to become a minister! That's how it goes with you!]] I am not putting this away, but we are fighting for an objective process in this new promotion. And this process, I do admit, has a lot of uncertainties in it. I have tried with an independent university professor named Mayrhofer to ensure that this is done as objectively as possible. We are now ready in 2011. It's not the time to discuss this, as you said. Six weeks ago it was not that we had the last Sports Committee. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 6. October!]] -Okay, I'm sorry. But it's like I'm going to keep what I promised in the next few weeks. In other words, in the next two to three weeks we will also send you this. Because this is already a process that should, so to speak, also encounter a broad consensus. [[Abg. Kickl: So far everything has been secret!]] I have found relatively many critical words in my term of office as Minister of the Roof Associations. But just as you're doing it now, talking the umbrellas down like that, I think it's wrong. They do great work, especially in the field of broadband. They also support many initiatives by the Ministry of Sports together with the BSO. We should not talk about this just because you politically disagree with those who are in charge of these associations. - But that's the one question. The second area you mentioned, the NADA. Mr Kickl, I have made as much money available to NADA as never before. However, there are also other institutions that are required to doping abuse, such as WADA. WADA is required in the Olympic years. I don't like it at all, I'm saying it quite openly now, that WADA says they're not making blood samples, but they're just making other samples. But the NADA is well equipped for Austria with €1.6 million if I have that right now, and I'm proud of that. That's what I'm saying quite openly. At international level, I also said this in the Sports Committee and in the Budget Committee, it is well recognized that Austria, in an area where we have not enjoyed a good reputation in recent years, now enjoy a good reputation as a pioneer in the fight against doping, and I am proud of that. We shouldn't let that go. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the short run to the budget itself. You know, this was also addressed by the new sports spokesperson of the ÖVP – I already know what he says is that you do not need to be afraid – that there is more budget resources. [[Abg. Grosz: Who is this?]] Due to a joint decision-making in the Sports Committee and also in the Parliament, we have made sure that we withdraw this €80 million per year and that we have available with the general sport promotion the €137 to 138 million mentioned. In the sports budget, we have taken into account the fact that we have budgeted almost €22 million for the year 2012 for investments in infrastructure. There was only a few weeks ago, to give an example, a groundmark on a canoe line. That was said to Mr Brosz. Of course, we are trying to invest in those sports, where we see that many successes are to be expected. I believe that we are very rightly investing in this joint water sports centre in London, especially in the direction of the Olympic 2012 in London, and thus in the canoe and rowing sports, where we are setting up a double world champion with the Corinna Kuhnle, also show that this is not a lost money, but that we invest in sports that are also important in the future. We invest in infrastructure projects such as the redesign of the Eisring South. The federal government also participates in the Lies Prokop private school in the south city. The stadium in St. Pölten will be budgeted at €2 million in 2012 alone, with a total budget of €6 million. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There's no need for this! Who's playing there? - The FC St. Pölten! But in Vienna you have a ruin!]] – That is what you say, Mr colleague, but some people in Austria see it as different. It is important for Lower Austria that this stadium be built, regardless of political requirements, and I stand on this project, which, I believe, I am not quite sure, even under Minister Riess-Passer was then led in the way. It doesn't matter. It's a project I'm standing on, and we're also going to end this project. And we are also proud that this is a good project for economic and environmental reasons. We've been planning an ice hockey project. We are planning a new modern home of sport, which, as is foreseen in the government programme, is intended for all associations in Austrian sport. We are in the process of bringing the 2020 top sports venue plan, I hope that it is at least also in your sense, into the finalisation phase and thus also to invest reasonably in future sports venues in Austria. We are world champions in the event of major sports events, YOGI in Innsbruck 2012, so next year. [[Ironic hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the big sports event?]] - Yeah, that's what it means. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] This is a big sports event with very large financial impact. I'm a little surprised that you're against youth sports. It is the first event in youth sports, the first event in winter sports, which is held in Innsbruck and which comes to the full agreement of all those responsible for sports in Austria and is organised together with the ÖOC and IOC. That you're against it surprises me a little bit, but it's all right. We stand for Austrian sport and we stand above all for sport for youth. I would have liked you to support this Olympic idea, too. We stand for the World Ski Championship 2013, for which we have made a lot of financial resources available next year, in addition to the things we have already held, such as the American Football World Cup, the Faustball World Cup, the Volleyball EURO, where we have also invested 1.3 million €. We have – and this is a very important achievement, which is also budgetedly equipped – created under my ministry the TEAM ROT-WEISS-ROT, and this new system in top-ranking sports is accepted positively. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Fitshigogerl World Cup!]] Applications of € 8 million were received. We have planned 4 million € for budgeting, as much as never before. I think that Austrian sport is generally well positioned. Of course, we also need the money from the countries, but also through your help here in Parliament, namely by making § 11a new and flexible, we can make more money available for sports, we also have more maneuver mass for Austrian sport. We will not leave this road, even if this is clearly seen by some here in the house. But it is the primacy of politics and the majority in democracy. It is a shame that, as has been said, you are now obviously taking a new attitude, especially in connection with youth sport. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are not a Minister of Sports, but a Minister of Fitschigogerl!]] We stand for the further development of sports in Austria, and this budget is perfectly tailored for the further development of Austrian sport. I thank you for the hopeful approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25336	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25357	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Westenthaler, I guarantee you: If we had a Fitschigogerl World Championship, you'd be sitting in the first row with VIP cards, and you'd fit into the TV cameras. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I'd trust to bet, because until now I've seen you everywhere, at least on TV, instead of sitting here. You see on TV that you sit somewhere else in the first row. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I turn to the FPÖ's favorite theme, namely gender mainstreaming in the sports budget, I am still interested in whether Mr Ikrath, who is no longer in the hall – probably he is following one of his secondary jobs, which we can now all read on the Internet – would be as courageous and say to Mr Treichl: If someone is incompetent, he must consider whether he is sitting on that seat or not! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One day Mr. Treichl told us that the bank was writing a huge profit, and eight days later she was in the minus. So I would really like to know – but, as I said, Mr Ikrath is probably already in one of his side work – whether Mr Ikrath is giving us as much courage as he is here when he tries to adapt our minister. Shame for these things! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Gender mainstreaming in sport is part of the budget presented by Minister Darabos. When you know what women do in sports, how many medals Austria has done in the last Olympic Games, and that women have mainly done the medals, you have to say that women in the media – this is due to media observations – are relatively few. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You would do more sports well!]] If you have seen three days ago in the “standard” how the International Box Association has responded to the clothing regulations in boxing – boxing will be Olympic in 2012 – to make women’s boxes prominent – you want women to box in mini skirts – then you know that in this sense there is still a lot to do in the context of gender mainstreaming in sport. And I'm convinced that our minister is doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25410	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. The total speaking time of your group is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25433	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to address the Minister briefly: If you, Mr Minister, are sitting here or sitting here saying that all of this is your predecessor's thing, including the nature and architecture of sports promotion, then I must tell you that it is really a weak promise to always speak out to the predecessors. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing, a very serious matter that I would like to give you now is the following – I do not know if you have already heard of the incredible events on a football court in Vienna – is: There was a football match with which you would like to inspire young people for sports, between the FC Vienna and Robinson FC. This has already led to incredible indifferences, especially against the Austrians, during the game – repeatedly demonstrated by eyewitnesses. I'm just saying: Shit Austrian!, that was the worst thing our young people got to hear there. And the whole thing then ended in the fact that after the match there was a serious dispute, in which a young Austrian was beaten by a Turk with a stroke ring of sick-house tires. But the real scandal is – I have to say that at this point: The Vienna Football Association has subsequently suspended the Vienna FC – the football club FC Vienna has set itself up for the Wehr, and the whole has been published about the so-called new social media – the FC Vienna. Mr Sport Minister, I ask you to accept this matter quickly and quickly. We defend ourselves with all our determination against these beatings of any immigrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25472	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Nice to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25494	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Sports! I turn to the positive aspects of sports again. I think that € 8.5 million more for Austrian sport is a more than satisfactory and clear signal. Enthusiasm for sport means in the last episode, preventive action for public health and thus for the health system in Austria. But it means more: The role of sport in the field of social integration is not to be underestimated, if not precisely such growth. Therefore, it is important to further promote school sports, modernize and expand the sport offer, and, of course, major events for sports can also delight. That is why I am particularly pleased as a steirer that we will first and foremost receive a great big event in the Styria with the Alpine Ski World Cup 2013 in Schladming. There are other Styrian projects, such as the modernisation of the Kulm ski jumping hill, where there will be new wide-ranging records. We have the modernisation of the Nordic facilities in the area of Eisenerz, the snowboard World Championship Kreichberg 2015 and the Junior-Langlauf World Championship in Ramsau. Mr Minister, thank you very much for this, because this is a really great contribution for sport, but also for the Styria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That's enough of praise. I would like you now, above all because you, Mr Federal Minister, can be given the opportunity to celebrate on the homepage of the Ministry of Sports under the motto “Norbert der Schnelle ist immersat” (Norbert der Schnelle ist übert) for the Sportbad Eggenberg, pointing out that no single cent has landed in Graz until today, although German Chancellor Gusenbauer has promised 4,033 million in writing and the ÖISS has counted the federal funding share of peak sports with 6,69 million in the June opinion. I think you'd be asked, Minister. Otherwise, we are satisfied anyway, but that would be another point that would be important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25542	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. The total residence time of your group is 3 minutes. How many minutes am I supposed to give you, you have a follow-up? [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 1 minute!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25579	Mr President. Mr. Minister! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). In the roof associations, about 475 000 persons make 1.5 million volunteer hours a week. This means that in about 75 million hours a year, voluntary benefits are provided. If you had to pay for this, the sport in Austria would no longer be eligible for funding. This is organized there and is provided voluntarily there. You don't know what you're talking about, what structures you're going to destroy. One word to Mr Westenthaler: Mr Westenthaler, if you are not able to recognize that the Youth Olympic Games are one of the world's biggest sporting events, with the accreditation of 2,000 journalists and more athletes than 1976 at the Olympic Games, then this is a sign of poverty for the sports spokesperson of your group.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25606	The next speaker was Mr Fazekas. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25627	Mr President. Federal Minister! This is precisely the key to success: in youth, in youth sport. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to look at all the best-practice examples where it is possible for young people to have the chance to play sports in all their facets. A success factor for me – and I always stress it – is also the whole day school, because we have the possibility that many children and young people who today do not see themselves engaged in sports, sports. For example, one of the best-practice examples is also in the city of Schwechat, where it has succeeded to animated the children for sports already in the kindergarten age, also to look at sports motors. Finally, every child in our city has had contact with youth sports at least once in his schooling. We have seen this in the framework of a very comprehensive health study, and it has clearly been a significant proportion of children who have run sports from childhood to adulthood. Therefore, it must be our goal to continue this in this form, to establish it. And that is why I hope that all in this area will be able to force youth sport. Mr. Federal Minister, thank you very much for the great support at the Werner Schlager Academy in Schwechat – a very trend-setting, also forward-looking project, not only for Austrian sports, but also for Austrian youth sports. – Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25667	For another opinion, Mr Mag. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25688	I'll take a minute. Just a few sentences on some statements made here. First: If there are violent conflicts at sports courts, then it is no matter what ethnicity they have been set up to combat. But it is not the only task of the Minister of Sports to do that, but, as it is also a question of social development in Austria, of course, also a task of the Ministry of the Interior. Putting this into the shoes, so to speak, is a bit strange. Secondly, In the direction of the sports spokesperson, I would like to say that – I know him, yes, you do not need to be afraid that I do not know the sports spokesman of the ÖVP – that as far as the question is concerned Graz – I think you are interested in this, too, Mr. Colleague, a million in the budget. [[Ah-run of the Abg. Grosz]] [[Abg. Grosz: I don't know!]] [[Abg. Grosz: There could be a mistrust against you!]] But I have to say in this circle, too, because this cannot remain in the room, that the Grazers have long needed to deliver the documents. However, we are on this project because it is a very important project, and therefore, I believe, a million – a total of 5.8 million – are planned from the federal side for the realization of this project. We are all happy that this can work as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25742	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The discussions on this subject have ended. Before I interrupt the meeting, I announce that following the interruption of the meeting of the Incompatibilities Committee in the local V will meet. I will also inform you that tomorrow, Thursday, 17. At 8.30 a.m. on 8 November 2011, the defense of members and substitute members of the Committee of Inquiry takes place at local VI. I am now interrupting the sitting until Thursday, 17. November 2011, 9 a.m. Negotiations will continue tomorrow with the consultation of subheadings 20 to 22 of Section 2: Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Family. The sitting was suspended. [[The sitting would be held on Wednesday, 16. On November 17, 2011, at 21.03 a.m. and on Thursday, 17th. ==References====External links==]] [[09:00:41]] Continued the meeting: Thursday, 17. November 2011, 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25800	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the interrupted 132. National Council meeting again. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Grill, big truck, ing. Hofer, Mag. Musiol, Ing. Lugar, Dr. Van der Bellen. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25834	For this meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs Dr. Wolfgang Waldner. We continue our discussions. I announce that the session will be transferred to ORF III in full length. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25876	For today’s session day, a block-time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been decided, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131, FPÖ 113, Green 95 and BZÖ 90 minutes. With regard to the further development of the debate on today's headings, I would like to refer to the statements at the beginning of the sitting. [[09:01:56]] Heading 2 (Work, social, health and family) [[09:01:57]] UG 20: Work UG 21: Social and consumer protection UG 22: Social security
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25925	First of all, we are entering into the negotiation of subheadings 20: Work, 21: Social and consumer protection, as well as 22: Social insurance. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. Mr Kickl is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25950	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you a wonderful morning, on the second day of this second reading to the budget. A nice morning, too, Mr. Un Sozialminister Hundstorfer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Our Minister of Social Affairs is the name of my choice for you. Because I think it simply fits better with the circumstances, better suited to your performance, so I will call you a non-social minister in the future, because I also believe that it is necessary once... [[Abg. Hoefinger: Our Minister of Social Affairs!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e25996	Deputies! There has been an agreement here that neither names nor titles will be evaded. I'm looking for you to stick to that too!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26018	Madam President, even if this is at my speaking time, allow me to say: You should make less of the resistance police up there, but you should rather be for this country and its...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26042	Mr Kickl, I would like to give you a call for an order for the expression'rest police'.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26074	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we see that, if we obviously do not agree with social policy in this country, there will be censorship here. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think this one: “Oh, how good is Austria! Oh, how great we are in the international comparison!” is not appropriate. You'd better lock up your ears and get excited where there's something to be excited about! [[Subsequent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Perhaps this mantra, with which you come, can also develop in the area of budget negotiations, even a certain autosuggestive force which you admittedly need in a difficult situation. Maybe it's also a very pleasant rest kiss, where you think you can relax. But, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot say the other, with an adequate description of the reality in Austria, with an adequate description of the social situation or with an adequate description of the impact of your budget measures, this does not have to do the minimum. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Faith You are all serious, Mr Social Minister, that this mantra is only at least some kind of satisfaction, some kind of calming for these in about a million people, who are there in Austria, who can be described as vulnerable to poverty, who are vulnerable or poor, and for the many, many people who are just a hint over this border? Faith You're all serious about this mantra: “Austria is so good, Austria is so great!” is some form of calming for these people? You know just as well as I do, Mr Social Minister, that many of these people who live there in poverty or are considered to be vulnerable to poverty are not at risk of poverty or poor, because they do not do anything that might be believed, but are therefore vulnerable and therefore poor, because they get so little for what they do, that they cannot live on it, ladies and gentlemen. This is the situation in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I tell you that these parts of the population have nothing at all from your international comparisons and cannot cut off the minimum. You know just as well as I do, Minister of Social Affairs, that many of these poor people in Austria are so poor because they are pensioners because they are in Austria as thanks and acknowledgment for their performance, because they did not run away at the time, but because they did not get away with it, as others who hate you, ladies and gentlemen, from all the countries, get far too little. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You're voting against the single-earner discount rate!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because they have packed, they then receive, as thanks and as recognition, a pension from this republic, which is so luxuriant that you really can't live from it and can be regarded as an impoverished or as a poor one. That's the real situation. [[Abg. May. Gässner: Big shut!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's wrong what you say!]] And if you're talking about pension increases in this country, Minister of Social Affairs, then they're so messy that every time you lose your purchasing power, you'll eat up what you pay out as a pension increase at all. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You're voting against the single-earner discount rate!]] You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about poverty risk and poverty in this country, we are talking about families, women and children. They are at risk of poverty and manifestly poor; not because they have blamed anything – perhaps from their ideological point of view, that may already be – but only because you do what you always claim is so important that they give a future to the children of our society. And that is the gratitude of your social policy and your budgetary policy for this group, ladies and gentlemen. You are punished by transferring the burden budget of the last period to this period and simply continuing to do nothing but cut down on the weakest – that is your form of budget sustainability. But, ladies and gentlemen, you are in a row where it is about really going to go in consistently even once if it is a question of setting aside, for example, the privileges in the pension area. You certainly have a certain close relationship with the Vienna SPÖ and with the officials sitting there in the town hall. OeNB, Austrian Federal Railways, where is your fight against pension privileges in this area? Where is your hearty intervention when it comes to the hatred of immigrants coming to Austria because they believe that we as a host society are responsible for putting everything in their mouths? [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Finally, the immigrants come!]] This is an act of hatred that must finally be stopped, ladies and gentlemen. What happens from your side? – You don't hear anything at all, there's no spark of sustainability. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I tell you one thing, Minister of Social Affairs: If you're already making yourself and if you're knocking on your chest, as you're so happy to do on every occasion, you should not forget – so that this becomes a round thing and also corresponds to reality – to say, because of my guilt, because of my guilt, because of my great guilt!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26213	Mrs Csörgits is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26237	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is really very unfortunate, but at the same time very revealing that there are some Members in this House who do not think anything but to be polemic and insulting on this important subject. That's really very, very revealing. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you were to deal with this matter with the necessary seriousness, you would also have to note that Austria, thanks to the policy of this Federal Government, and especially thanks to the policy of this Federal Minister, has had the lowest total unemployment and the lowest unemployment among young people for many, many months in the European Union. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Businesses made a contribution, or do you believe that this is the performance of the Minister of Social Affairs?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call at the FPÖ: Who will hire people? Not the Minister of Social Affairs!]] We are also in the happy situation, Mr Kickl, that we are among those countries where people are not very long in unemployment, because we are pursuing very targeted labour market policies. But this must have gone by without a trace, Mr Kickl, and you should also be a little educationally resistant in this area, just at the beginning. Are you saying about the FPÖ that we are not doing anything against poverty in this country? – Your party was the one who voted against the need-oriented minimum guarantee, which did not find it worth the effort to give a good instrument to those people who have been unemployed for a long time. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You were, you just wanted to prevent the poorest of the poor in this country from being helped. – Thank you very much, I can only say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on the very important issue of labour market policy in this budget. I am very pleased that we will also have the third highest estimated budget for labour market policy for 2012, which is around € 1 billion. On the one hand, this will help to pursue active labour market policies in order to help people get back into the work process. On the other hand, it will also help to ensure that those people who have to remain in unemployment for a long time also provide the necessary financial resources so that they can meet their important needs of consumption as well. What makes me particularly happy and what I would like to point out is that your budget, Mr Social Minister, has also succeeded in truly following the idea of gender budgeting. In connection with the active labour market resources, 50 percent will again be made available to women's priorities. This ensures that women who want to get back into work after a baby break will also receive the necessary support. – Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26314	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26336	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kickl, I have a question to ask you: Did I really understand that you accused the SPÖ or imaginary circles in the direction of SPÖ that they had run away? – People have packed and have not run away like you!, that was your formulation. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, well! You have to listen carefully!]] Now I should like to know, Mr Kickl: The year to which reference is made Are you saying this? Do you mean 1938 or do you mean 1945? [[Call the FPÖ: Such a fool!]] What do you mean? This statement from you was so clear that I am surprised that the SPÖ has not more vehemently resisted it. [[Mr Kickl and Mr Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Mr Kickl, you have spoken in your speech to God about hospitality and not about the “wirts people”, as is usual in your circles. [[Abg. Kickl: Then you know the vocabulary better than I do!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Stop with this stupid thing!]] Mr Kickl, the following statement: They have run away and have not packed properly as it should be – this is actually an enormous statement, I can only tell you. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:after the war!]] I really want to reject this with determination! It is enough what has been done otherwise by your group, but also in your speech today. Mr Federal Minister, two things: One is the 2012 pension increase, and the other is the proposals, which are now mainly inspired by the ÖVP side, concerning the premature increase in the age of women's pensions. I would like to present this briefly. Pension increase 2012: I think the 2.7 percent are all right. What I don't understand and think is absolutely beyond is that the senior representatives of Blecha and Khol take off in the last round and say they want to get something out for the small pensioners, that is, for those with the low pensions, and then come home with a pension increase for the high pensions; because pensions will be increased by 1.5 percent if I have understood it correctly, even if they exceed €5,940. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is difficult to understand!]] 1.5 percent of the pension is €7 000 105. 2.7 percent at a pension of € 1,000 27 per cent. Remember the difference? Do you understand the weighting? In reality, people experience what that means every day. The one with €6 000 or €7 000 does not need to raise the pension in this form as you grant it. The other with 1 000 € is urgently needed to increase the pension by 2.7 percent. Since it is of no use if the single-earner discount is increased because the pensioner is not applied at all to large groups of single pensioners. [[Call: So it is]] And that is the point, ladies and gentlemen, where I say I no longer understand. I understand that Mr. Khol and Mr. Blecha also want to see their pensions increased, but, Mr. Federal Minister, a pension increase is not in place to increase Mr. Khol's and Mr Blecha's pensions. – I’m pointed it out now, I hate to get it to this personal level, but it’s so. If you don't think about raising a pension by 1.5 percent for pensions over €5,940, who can still understand that? Who else can make sense if you, on the other hand, discuss the urgent need for a pension reform because we can no longer afford this pension system? That is the speech of the last few weeks, all the time, ladies and gentlemen. I thought that we agreed – in principle, except that I could explain to you for a quarter of an hour the problems of the 2003 and 2004 pension reform – to create a common pension system for all, which provides for a minimum level, in the form of the compensation allowance in case of need, and a maximum level. This is up to €3 000 – not yet – and now you go here and say that in the crisis we can afford to increase pensions by 1.5 percent, even more than €5,940. This is absurd and unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Now I'm going to tell you something about the early increase in the age of women's pensions: Keep going! I call you a case – we are the only country in Europe with a different age of retirement among men and women? [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: the only country in Europe!]] You don't believe that yourself. You can't believe everything Mr. Marin tells you somewhere! [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: I don't know!]] Now let me tell you one thing, I give you a concrete example, Mr Bartenstein – you can then report to the House –: A woman born in 1962 could have retired in 2017 under the pension scheme. Under the long-term insurance scheme, she could have gone in 2018, i.e. a year later, because she had not yet completed her 40 years because she had child care periods in it. [[Calls of the Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti.]] Under the current scheme for long-term insured persons, it can proceed in 2022. If you want to increase the retirement age for women prematurely to 65, it can go in 2027. In 2017, she could have gone, 2027 could have gone with her regulation. Point one: Ten years, within ten years, an increase of ten years! Point two: You can do something! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Fürntrath-Moretti and Mr Höfinger.]] If you can really expect – and you say yes, Mr Bartenstein, that You can expect – then you also insist that the increase in the age of women's retirement will cost much more than you believe that they will bring you savings before the age of 2024. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein]] That's the point, and you haven't gotten that until today. For example, if the working time of a woman who works for 20 years is extended by 5 years, it will receive more pension by a quarter, for the 5 years of work. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Contributions!]] I grant it to the woman, and I also believe that this must be possible on a voluntary basis. Change the labour law provisions that are currently hindering women from working beyond the statutory retirement age! These are labour law provisions, these are collective contractual provisions, but you do not need to increase the retirement age. Not only do you get a massive conflict with the women who have to work ten years longer within a few years – by ten years!; and then you say: That's us. – but you also have to pay more. Calculate or learn to calculate – and then we will talk on!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26534	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26555	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two brief comments to my previous speaker: Mr Oellinger, women are also concerned about the level of pension, and many women have a lower pension because they also lack years. [[Abg. Silhavy: But then they have to earn a lot!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is one thing that is also taken into account here. They always say only half of what is actually given. [[Abg. Oillinger: Pension reform!]] They're going out here and always say half of what's fact. Now to the pension adjustment. – Mr Oellinger, in the 2012 pension adjustment – by the way, I think that a good package that has been negotiated there – pensioners with over €2,300 pension last year have not received an increase because they have helped to take our difficult budgetary course. Tell me that too! They're always just telling half the truth. That's your method! We don't tolerate them, we point them to the most decisive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to the general budget debate. One thing, ladies and gentlemen, has to be said: I do not understand why our country is being mistreated in permanence, especially from the FPÖ. Austria has the lowest unemployment rate of 3.9% below the EU-27. And we have the lowest youth unemployment rate of 7.1 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing is that people in this country have jobs, including for our social and our health system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These systems are thus fed, especially as regards the pension area. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have taken a lot of money into our hands for labour market and economic packages, but we have done so so so that people do not lose their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debt brake is a real and important step, which is also going to be able to live up to generation justice. I would also like to mention: Under Chancellor Schüssel, we have brought the government debt ratio from 66 percent in the years 2000 to 2007 to below 60 percent. That was a great performance, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We then countered the crisis, but now it is about reintroducing this path with a debt brake so that we can get back to 60 percent. But it is also necessary to do our homework in the individual areas. Of course also with the cost drivers, and to do so would like to say a lot about pensions. We have a good pension system in Austria, for which we envy many countries, but I do not think it is sustainable enough. And we also have injustices in some areas. The federal contribution will rise as a percentage of GDP from 2.65 percent to 2.97 percent or from 8.6 billion to 9.2 billion. There is therefore a need for action, especially in the case of invalidity pensions. Almost 500 000 people are in this kind of pension. The Federal Minister has announced that a legislative reform package will be launched quickly. We will very much support this, Mr Federal Minister, but it will be too little. Before we talk about all the other pension systems, it is absolutely necessary to eliminate privileges, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, the high pensions!]] And there would be the privileges of the ÖBB. I have to mention this over and over again, not because I want to be annoyed by the employees there, but because it is unfair to all other systems if there is an average pension of 52 or 53 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, must be done in the interests of all other professional groups. We only have 61.5 years in the final development, although the statutory retirement age is 65 years with the men. These 35 years of service are no longer adapted to the time, which is also really unfair to the other professional groups. The next example is the state of Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Court of Auditors, Vienna is the only federal country that has not adopted the federal system of public servants. All the other federal states – even Carinthia – have now decided to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I seek and appeal to those who are currently responsible in Vienna for implementing quickly what all the other federal states have already implemented. It is simply not fair and unfair to the taxpayer if 350 million more are to be spent there by the year 2042 than in the other federal states. In my opinion, these points must be dealt with quickly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A word on minimum security. – Yes, we acknowledge the need-oriented minimum security. Help for those who also need help, for example, a single parent with two children: Yeah, that's what we're talking about. But we want to avoid abuse. And the figures of Lower Austria and Vienna – 11 000 in Lower Austria, 82,000 in Vienna – show that something is wrong. That is why we want to have a rapid evaluation in order to really eliminate those who are not entitled to this minimum guarantee, because that is also unfair to taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The care fund is really a milestone in the policy of care: A plus of 685 million to 2014! We have budgeted 150 million for 2012. The Care Money Reform Act is one of the biggest administrative reforms we have carried out in recent years: a reduction from 303 to 8 paying and evaluating posts! We have a very good care system. It is a security for the care providers, for the caregivers and for the care staff. And we have also provided a discharge for our communities. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not talk a little bit about this, but we should be proud that we have done so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with an interview in the “standard” with a gentleman I appreciate very much, with Walter Pöltner, a head of section in the ministry, and this is really an interview that I would like to stress completely. I take out a passage where he is asked about the pension system, and he says, among other things, that: “Ex-Bundeskanzler Wolfgang Schüssel has done a lot for the pension system, for example. Why we will have fewer problems in thirty years is probably due to him. One can love bowl or not, but he was there state-manic on the way.” To this, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to add! We want to leave the following generations a good system.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26681	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26703	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wöginger, one thing I must say: During the time you just mentioned here, between 2000 and 2006, we were in coalition, and in this government we were first implemented under Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt and then under Minister of Social Affairs Uschi Haubner the reforms in the pension area, namely with hakler and heavy-worker regulations. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, of course!]] I remember that at the time the pension insurance institutions of the workers and the employees were grouped together, and it was also planned to bring together those of the self-employed and the farmers, but that has not yet happened. This is a point of reform that has not yet been completed. This kind of reform takes place like a red thread through all areas. Since we are no longer in the government, nothing has happened as far as reforms are concerned. You must have said that here. Neither a state reform nor an administrative reform has been implemented which the State Reform Commission and the Court of Auditors have requested. As I said, nothing has happened yet. And with the pension system, which is constantly criticized, there is also a lot in the arrogance. Nothing will be done to clean it up. Mr Federal Minister, last time you gave an opinion here in the House on Europe, and I have to tell you in relation to this: I am also proud that we have the lowest youth unemployment in Austria and that something will be done in this area in the future, because it is important that everyone who has graduated from a compulsory school also has a corresponding vocational training, which is extremely important. Only, Minister of State: For the elderly, the over 50s, we have an increasing unemployment rate, and I simply do not have any suggestions on how they can stay in employment longer so that we can raise the low retirement age in Austria. It is also true, Mr Federal Minister, that this low level of unemployment has been bought by the high number of early pensions. In Austria, an average of 52 years old, you go to the invalidity pension and with an average of 59 years in early retirement. Of course, this retirement age should be raised. But understanding of the population will only rise if certain pension privileges are removed in Austria. That's it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, in the public and semi-public sectors, in the countries and in the municipalities, as well as in the Austrian Bundesbahnen and in the National Bank, one has to make a greater impact on the retirement age, rather than on those who already have more than 60. Year of life work to talk about that belongs to longer work. It is important to put the lever on those who push the cut down. That's finally done! Above all, it is important to harmonise pension systems in Austria. In Austria, we still have 22 different cash offices in the social insurance sector. In fact, we only need a pension insurance institution, only a health insurance and only an accident insurance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And if it is now established that harmonisation is to take place by the year 2040, I must say: That's a lot faster! That's where you're on the brake. But they're on the wrong brake. Rather, one should slow down in debt, but with a proper brake, not with a bicycle brake, but with a hydraulic brake with brake amplifier, so that we can reduce the debt. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] It would be necessary to act in this area. There are only differences between SPÖ and ÖVP. At the SPÖ we say: Well, we also have to do something under tax law so that we have higher revenue, and at the ÖVP we say: No, we want to save a little more on the expenditure side! In Austria, Mr. Federal Minister, we have a wild growth in funding – not only in the social field, but also in economic support and also in agricultural support. There is a double, triple, quadruple funding, which is provided by the federal government and by the states and municipalities. At last there is a database of transparency, where everything is listed and illuminated. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If this is done, then you can also afford a tax reduction in this area, which would also be necessary, because at present the tax already eats up half the gross wage. That is why the labour force, the labour factor – and I am sure that you will give me a right, Minister of Labour, tax relief. This tax belongs once down. That would be important. And in the health sector, it is the same. Some of the country's competences have been postponed. There are individual federal hospitals with a distance of 10 kilometres. Of course, that's what's tedious about the whole system. We have a good health system, but it's too expensive. We will no longer be able to afford that, and that is a problem. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to say something to you: The lever is urgently committed to some things, where commission payments are made in the management of semi-governmental and state-owned enterprises and also in private enterprises. It can't be that someone gets commission paid even though after two years you have losses. It is not for this purpose that the taxpayer should be asked to pay the cash, but there must be a different scheme in the case of credit certificates. To change that would be important. It must not be done in the future as it has been before. That's what the bar finally sounds like. Ladies and gentlemen, we simply cannot spend more than we take, but we must take more than we spend. That's the future! That is why the budget belongs back to the Committee on Budgets, because what has been presented here has neither hand nor foot. Before leaving the floor, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to say the following: I have expected to receive at least the written answers to the questions I have put in the Budget Committee on the “Work and Social Affairs” chapter before today. There have been seven days in the country since – and I have not received anything to this day. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is a matter of getting it within four days. That's why I'm asking you to get this in time for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26775	Mr Hundstorfer, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e26797	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dolinschek, I signed yesterday at 2 p.m. the replies of 160 questions. They were here at 3.30 p.m. in the house. I'm sorry, but [[Abg. Grosz: They're not here!]] Where in the house they are now, I don't know. I can only tell you what we did. [[Abg. Grosz: They are not with us anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen, before you are all artificially excited: I have signed the answers properly and have properly forwarded them from my house to the High House. Everything else is not in my competence. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Questionnaire! Not a point! Question mark!]] Now to the budget: If I listen to you here, I think I am living in another country, because we are world leaders in unemployment and with us everything is socially intercepted. [[Abg. Grosz: Point!]] What is reality? – Of course, there is also poverty in our country. That's not a question at all! If you'd been listening to me, Mr. Kickl, you'd have insisted that the 460,000 really poor people in our country are very dear to us, because we're the only country in the world – the only one! – which has brought together to improve social assistance in 2009/2010. [[Abg. Grosz: exclamation mark!]] And this improvement was €90 million alone in emergency aid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Point!]] We live in a country, the world champion is in the care sector, in the care money. They will not find any country in the world where 5.2 percent of the population receive a care allowance. No land in the world! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's getting less and less!]] Dear Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein! The number does not become lower, but higher. Your main problem is the following: Your party has a problem with all the numbers, because you simply don't want to take note of the realities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: You don't perceive reality!]] And we live in a country that is the European champion of youth unemployment. I have only visited a delegation from the European Commission yesterday, and we have had discussions about exporting our youth activities to all of Europe, so to speak, where it was about what we are doing for young people, starting with the production school, ending with special programmes – one that is “JUST new” – that all that we have in special activities, where it is about know-how, information and various possibilities, across Europe. These ladies and gentlemen do not come from Jux and Tollery, who do not come to look at something that does not work, but they come to look at how it can work and why it works with us. [[Abg. Kickl: Do you still have a potential or not?]] Of course! Do you think I don't care about people? [[Abg. Kickl: I don't think so, but!]] Do you really have that perverseness in your mind to suggest to me that I don't care about people? Of course, everyone affected by youth unemployment is one too much. The question is: What program can I help him with? How can I integrate it into the acquisition process, into the training process? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] Austria is also European champion in terms of total unemployment. We are European champions, whether you want it or not. We have at the hour in this country, when we calculate everything together, the employees, the self-employed and also the 20,000 free workers, 3.9 million persons in employment. We have never had so many in the Second Republic! Of course, there's always the argument: Employment is not always a full job! – No question at all! [[Abg. Kickl: Right! You're right again!]] But we have combined these figures with a part-time rate that is much lower than the part-time rate in Holland, for example, where the number of employees is lower and where the part-time rate is much higher. And we also have a lower part-time ratio than Sweden. So we probably have a very, very high proportion of full-time jobs, and this raises the issues of financing the social system in a different relationship. But no question, even with us, those who are in part-time – 50 percent voluntarily, 50 percent involuntarily – are especially the involuntary, our worried children. You know very well that we have a very ambitious and complex programme for invalidity pensions. “Fit2Work” is a project that is about watching and helping people early on in time to prevent people from having mental problems. It is terrifying that the majority of invalidity pensions are due to psychosomatic, mental diseases. We do so too, we do not look away, we look very closely at that. We have also looked very closely at the diseases of the movement and support apparatus for years and have considered what we can do in the context of worker protection for the movement and support equipment. And the measures are: The number of invaliditys due to musculoskeletal and support diseases is down sharply, they are almost completely reduced, as workers' protection works. There have been many measures over the last 30, 40 years. Because today a discussion on the increase in the age of women's retirement is already taking place [[Abg. Oils: I don't!]] I think we should also have an open discussion there, Mr Oellinger. And in this open debate, we should say that we in women have different employment rates than in 1992, which is enormously higher, that the share of older women in employment also increases at the hour and that we simply have a different life expectancy. Such a discussion can only be conducted emotionally, quietly and on the basis of facts. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: I presented them!]] They should be guided by facts, but not comparatively, Mr Oellinger, with the ideal case of long-term insurance – you know very well how many women even reach long-term insurance – but we must have the discussion with comparisons about normal retirement. [[Abg. Oillinger: That was my second example!]] That's what I wanted to say. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have a huge request to all: I know, of course, that the ÖBB is a great topic when it comes to the pension system, but please note – and please note this in general – that: You will not find a pension system in Austria, where the future of the ASVG is not already due to today's decision. No one! I am with you when you say that the transitional periods are too long. Here I am with you, you can discuss all of this, but we have the ASVG as the new future pension system in all country rights. In all country rights! [[Abg. Kickl: In 2050!]] This is too long, Mr Kickl. In Vienna it takes the longest, I think, until 2033. [[Abg. Kickl: Long enough too!]] . I say yes, we can discuss all of this, about the transitional periods, that is not the issue, but the reform approach to implement the ASVG in all pension systems has long been done. Whatever we've done: There are still almost 5,000 employees in the ÖBB who have the Uralt-Pension-Law. 5,000! And these are 2014 history. 2014 is also there for these, if they are still there, the retirement age 61.6 years. That is, the transition is taking place there too. It is also clear to me that the central bank is a great example for all polemics. [[Abg. Kickl: But not only since yesterday, you know that too!]] – No, but you have to say one thing, Mr Kickl: There are already four different service and pension rights in the central bank, since three reforms have already been made. You also know exactly the legal status of the oldest group. And this legal status, whether we want it or not, is a double single contract. Of course, one can double-check individual contracts – by means of a constitutional law – but it is the question of how you will react if, for the first time in this Republic, one intervenes with a constitutional law in double single contracts. What was that supposed to be for rent? What did that mean for the purchase right, and, and, and, what? - No, I don't. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I just want to tell you the legal consequences. [[Abg. Strache: It is about eliminating privileges!]] You have to develop other ideas, such as – for example, there have been there for a long time – with all public-law pensions in Austria you pay a pension insurance contribution, with everyone. There is no one in this country who does not pay a pension scheme if he has a public pension, no one! The ÖBB pay the most, the federal officials – it depends on when they go into retirement; it then becomes lower – have a staged system that pays post, which Telekom pays, all pay. [[Abg. Kickl: The Politpensionists!]] – The political pensioners pay the most, as one can also discuss whether the 13.6 percent pension contribution is sufficient. All of this can be discussed, but in discussions that should be conducted with a matter of fact and that cannot be conducted with polemics. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, it sounds great that there are people with a pension of 6 000, 7 000 €. Yes, there are such people, but never again will there be new ones who have that, because there is now transitional rights everywhere. And of course you can ask if the 13.6 percent are sufficient. You can discuss that. But you do not hear such questions from you, you hear polemics, but you do not hear a substantial question. [[Call the FPÖ:You only hear!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Then we'll sit down soon!]] [[Abg. Strache: We can make a common request!]] – No, not just what I want to hear, because I even cut the subject offensively. Now for minimum security: I know that the minimum guarantee for many is a popular issue. But take note – point one – that we have decided to evaluate with the minimum assurance in the Article 15a agreement with all the federal states. This is part of the decision of the National Council. Point two: I would urgently ask you to use all the figures in all the comparisons. Osttirol currently has an increase of 70 percent, accounting for 20 percent. Why do you come to 70 percent? – Ask how this is in the Tiroler Landesgesetz, ask how it is in the provisions that exist there. A comparison between Vienna and Lower Austria? – First of all: We all know very well that in Vienna 60 percent of the applications for “MiSi” are rejected. Secondly, They know that, for whatever reason, Vienna has decided to include the housing aid for compensation recipients who have nothing to do with the "MiSi" in this budget approach for the country's budgetary reasons. That's once again 10,000 people; Combating poverty. And you also know quite well that the Wiener Landtag has decided to provide a child support of 200 €, and this child support of 200 € is charged for special groups of persons in the budget. – And then we compare the numbers that really only affect the “MiSi”. This is the problem we are trying to solve with this evaluation. Of course, we also want to know where the money goes. Of course, we want to know if something has gone out of the joints or not – yes, out of the joints. [[Abg. Scheibner: From the frame!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Lot!]] Thank you. We want to know that, of course, but I can't do the other way around with the federal states, that I'm doing an evaluation in spring, and I'm already starting to say, in October, November, that everything's ugly. We have to wait for the current numerical material, the numerical material comes, as agreed, in spring, and then we have an overview and we also know what the individual federal states have booked in a budgetary manner. Then: What certain federal states book like where is not really my problem. My problem is comparability, that's my problem again. As a result, we will of course look at this, but I can tell you one thing: In the meantime, we have brought 14 000 "MiSi" people into full-time employment through the AMS, and we have 28 000 "MiSi" students in training courses at the hour. You know very well that this is necessary. People who are long away from the labour market need training in order to be integrated again. Ladies and gentlemen, please note: We live in a country where we have an incredibly high social level: We're world champions for the care money. Whether you want it or not: We are European champions in terms of the lowest level of unemployment. Now you can turn it and turn it as you like, but it's like that. Take note, too, that we have the highest level of employment since there is the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] I have even told you the number of atypical employees: 20,000 free servants. Even this number you can have from me at any time. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] - But that's not true at all. Mr. Ing. Höbart, run You don't always follow things that don't vote! Just as your apprenticeship numbers do not agree, that is not true. [[Abg. Hear: Unheard of!]] Take note of the reality! Of course, we still have problems. Youth unemployment must not rise. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Too high!]] There must be no more 15-year-olds in the future who do not make any teaching or further training. 463,000 people in this country are really poor, and it is our task – that is clear – to reduce this number. That's not a theme at all! We will continue to work on this, and we will develop programmes to make this number smaller. I don't speak this number well, not at all, but it's also clear that many other indicators show: Yeah, I'm fine! Finally, I deliberately say it again: We are the only country in the world that has improved and not worsened social assistance in 2009/2010! We've improved them! And we will continue to work on the fact that social assistance is not hammock, but a trampoline. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will continue to work to ensure that these people also create integration into the labour market. As complicated as it is sometimes, as difficult as it is sometimes, we do not let go of it. – In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27270	Next, Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27291	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to make a comment on Mr Kickl's speech by the liberals. Mr President, if you start your speech with insults, you will not be able to be taken seriously. [[Abg. Kickl: What does insult mean? That's a denial!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: You're not taken seriously either!]] But you can say it differently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr deputies, it is also possible to say differently. Anyone who does not respect other people, for example a member of the Federal Government or the President of the National Council, should not be surprised not to be respected for himself. [[Abg. Strache: If someone is unsocial, you will be allowed to call it by name, without a call for order!]] I think that is quite clear and clear. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The Federal Minister has shown very impressively where we stand in our country in social terms. The view over the borders shows: First: We have mastered the economic crisis in relation to the labour market much better than others. Secondly, We have taken the right steps quickly when we saw that there are problems, government and social partners together. Thirdly, We have found that the social systems in our country have worked and proved themselves. And fourthly, In the 2012 budget we have made provision for the third highest estimated budget for active labour market policy, with a budget of around € 1 billion, and I think it is worth mentioning in a budget debate. However, we also have problems, and they must not be kept secret, for example in the fight against social fraud in our country, in the case of social dumping and the like. We have responded with our own laws this year to strengthen the controls and much more. Last year, we had employers' debt to the local health phone, which was no longer relevant, i.e. insignificant contributions, which amounted to a total of € 158.8 million in 2010. 45 percent of these were employees' contributions. I think when it comes to minimizing debt, you also have to look at how to get the money that should actually be heard and driven into the system. I therefore believe that there should be an intensification of the financial police and all the instruments we have created together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you know, ladies and gentlemen, that in the years 2000 to 2010 a total of almost €1.5 billion has been written off as unintroduced social security contributions, you cannot, I believe, go over to the agenda. [[Abg. New builder: A madness!]] It is necessary to develop methods together in the Federal Government, especially with the Minister of Finance, in order to improve the situation in this regard. So there is a need for action in this area, and I believe we should not go into the agenda. I would like to point this out once again in the context of this discussion on the social budget. I think it is necessary to consider together how to improve the situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27385	Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27407	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Federal Minister, you're bringing beautiful numbers here. I think you don't care about people, but you're talking pretty. It's not as nice at Weitem as you want to represent it, you know that very well. Let me say a word about minimum security in Vienna! You have said that – I have followed your speech closely – you have already said that in committee: In Vienna, there are a total of 80 000 minimum insurance beneficiaries. Of which 10 000 are charged, they do not receive minimum security. – I really felt it. In addition, She said: 60 percent of applications in Vienna are rejected. – Is that true? [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer nods.]] They have also said that in Vienna the number is so high because in Vienna minimum security is paid for children. And now I'm telling you: 18 000 applications for children in Vienna. If you take 60 percent of it, that's 8,000. So this is still far apart. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's a fact: In Vienna there are far more applications than in all other federal states. The head of the AMS in Vienna has said that 80 percent of people with migration backgrounds are affected by the minimum security. This too is a fact in Vienna. Federal Minister! This whole minimum security law is a Murks from the front to the back. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have also miscalculated health insurance. I know it's not from your place of business, it's from the health resort, but you can't completely shift the responsibility for it. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] There's a gap of €37 million, and then you say: We've been paying off! The Minister for Health was then a bit more honest in the Committee on Budgets and said: Well, the people who receive the minimum guarantee are also far more sick than the average Austrian. - It's the same way. We are now treating some immigrants, who we give the minimum security, which we treat from head to toe. For this we pay on the one hand additional € 37 million, which we take away the care payers on the other. That's what I'm already on the subject of care money. You, Federal Minister, say here that nothing will be shortened, all the people would be more and we would have more caregivers than before. I have a request to She put it – she was answered in October 2011, that's not long ago. And one question from me was how many people were trained in the care money. They replied: January to September 2010: 1,660 reductions; January until September 2011: 2 300 minors. [[Abg. May. Lapp: With 400,000 people!]] This is an increase of 40 percent, Minister of State! You can't explain to me that in this year, 2011, people are so much healthier by any wondrous uplifters that they're all being downgraded – and the whole thing against the background of the 2011 budget accompanying law, whose woes we still haven't digested, which made access to the care money enormously difficult. Now I'm describing the case of a man: He made a request in November 2010 that the care level be increased to level 2 and received on 1 January 2010. ==References====External links== He receives the care allowance from the Land Niederösterreich. Then he goes to pension, is changed to federal care, has to go back to the review at the beginning of January and is once again downgraded. Within not even two months, the health condition of this man has obviously improved so massively! [[Abg. Kickl: That's incredible!]] The man goes to the social court, gets still right there, and what does the health insurance fund do? – She objects, and at the end of the trial, he is only approved of stage 1 in a lawyer's proceedings. – This is the way to deal with those in need of care, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Explain Now you're telling me: How many caregivers do they even have the courage to resort to such a procedure in which they do not know what comes out in the end and for which they need a lawyer? That's bad what you're doing here! That's where people just take the money away! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] In this connection, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I put another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you shout in that all this isn't right, Mrs. Colleague, then you have to go out and talk to people! Then you will learn that all of this is true. Look and talk to the people!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27524	The motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Request by Dr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, on the pre-imposition of investment in accessibility ==References====External links== Meeting of the National Council during the debate on the report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1405b. B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2012 (Federal Finance Act 2012 – BFG 2012) together with investments (1510 d. B.), Division 21 – Social affairs In the Federal Disability Equality Act, the current deadline for the production of accessibility at 31 December 2015 will be left ahead, from which damage compensation can also be requested for discrimination in the case of old buildings. However, a longer period of conversion is possible if ministries that have a lot of old building materials, in a binding, published stage plan, define the implementation of the reconstruction measures. This is the last deadline of 31.12.2019. There is no doubt that this extension of the time limit is in many cases fully or partly used for the damage of disabled people in Austria. However, future investments in infrastructure will have to be made in an optimal way if the labour market is particularly busy to secure or to secure jobs. to create. These measures should be provided for in the 2012 budget. The Members who have been signed therefore make the following comments: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection is invited to ensure that structural measures to achieve accessibility are implemented more quickly than previously planned. These measures should be provided for in the 2012 budget."
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27616	Ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, have made myself smart on the basis of Mr Dolinschek's speech. The following shall be noted: All budget requests have been answered in time because there is a four-day working day period. It was not only the budget requests made yesterday by the Minister of Social Affairs, but also the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice. It has been working in Parliament's management until this morning, because all of this has to be put into pressure. The work was completed this morning, and on and on, everything should be with you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] The time limits: It is up to us to make budgetary consultations when we conclude the Committee on Budgets when we make such intensive use of this instrument. I just want to hold on so that this is clear: There's no failure. [[Abg. Dolinschek: We got it now, according to my word!]] - No, no, no! Again: Mr Dolinschek, I will not let this go. The requests have been received in good time within the four-day period by all Ministers. You know that all this has to be put into pressure, and that's a lot of work. The Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's Directorate worked almost all night so that the distribution could be carried out early this morning. In reality, we must thank the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's Directorate for this work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27670	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my thanks to the ÖVP, as I believe, on behalf of all the Members, for the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, that they have put in a night shift, and I only hope that the President has also made a good breakfast available. I thank all the employees! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to the social budget: Expenditure on the labour, social and social security sectors is around €20 billion. I'm not going that far to say how much schilling these are. But we have to say that there is an increase of 2 billion. This budget is of course a broad range of social, labour market policy and pension measures. It has already been said by the Federal Minister and my previous speaker Gustl Wöginger that the situation on the labour market in Austria is very good. 3.9 million people are in employment with us, and this number includes carers and presenters. The unemployment rate is very, very low. In the Netherlands it is one percent higher than with us. This whole budget block also includes important measures, such as initiatives to promote women on the labour market, in order to enable women to re-enter and support older workers. In addition, young women or jobseekers should be encouraged to be trained in technical professions. I think that is a very important point. However, there are also initiatives towards closing the payroll. There are also €27 million for initiatives, as the Federal Minister said, to keep older workers in working life and, so to speak, to take precautions in the health field. . I see this as support for workers, but of course also as support for employers, because they are also responsible in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the topic of pensions: It is very important to me, and it is always mentioned that if we still want to secure pensions for our children, something must happen. That's what all the experts say, and I think you have to make this clear: It is not up to men to retire on average at 58,2 years of age and women with 57 years of age. The latter work any longer, because otherwise they don't bring their pension together. You also have to say: That the retirement age is one of the lowest in us, that is a distortion. Sometimes I believe that you don’t know what “factical age of arrival” means. We in Austria have an age of entry for men with 65 and for women with 60, and you simply have to lift the early retirement age, and if women want to work longer voluntarily, this should also be allowed. But I know how this is in the administration! That's what it says: You're 60, as a woman, you'll be retired if you're not necessarily a civil servant. But I think that we must also talk about the disability pension. We also need a few measures in this area. First of all, we need an effective bonus malus system, according to which those who retire earlier receive less than those who work longer. In this respect, we also have our Federal Minister Mitterlehner on our side. It is also important for me to address the special pension right of the Vienna magistrates. Without being polemic: We in Styria have been implementing this for a long time, and we are also exemplary in other administrative reform measures. – In Vienna, the magistrates who are no different from those in Vorarlberg or Upper Austria, so to speak, are causing us 350 million additional costs. In addition, I am also very grateful to my colleague Lopatka for repeatedly pointing out the special pension right at ÖBB. – Who should understand that ASVG staff with a much lower income than the employees of the ÖBB are retired? I know that this will probably also be said by my colleague Ursula Haubner, but I would like to ask you: What happens until 2014? How many are going to retire? It is a pity that the Federal Minister has now left, because I really support him in many ways. [[Abg. May. Lap: He's here!]] I'd like to say: We need reform in the invalidity pension. It is not a question of 3,000 people under 30 years of age being in invalidity pension and 10 000 more under 40 years of age in early retirement! This means, in summary, that: We have construction sites there, and we must take appropriate action together with the Federal Minister responsible for this. In short: The aim of the debt brake is a proper means, and stable finances are a secure future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27718	Now comes Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27742	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! In your opinion today, when I heard your account of the social situation in Austria, I had the impression that although I am not in the wrong film, I am a little bit in the wrong country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] I was then relatively relieved that at least at the end of the day you pointed out that you also see the problem areas in the area of young and old unemployment, but also the poor and vulnerable people in that country. I'm glad you finally scratched the curve at least once more. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] If you now say that we have problems, and we also define these problems, then I recognise exactly the approach you are trying to address these problems in this budget. – I have to say: Unfortunately, they have not done so long ago as we Greens would like us to! Because fact is: The number of people employed is high, but it is also the number of unemployed. And we hear in all economic forecasts that this number will continue to rise. What do we find in this budget? – Active labour market policies fall by 2%. They're going back! The number of unemployed will rise, but the resources available to active labour market policies will fall. That means: A greater number of unemployed people receive a smaller amount of advice, support and training. If you continue to calculate this, that means that there will be less money for each individual to give him a chance to get back on the labour market. Already, in the labour market service, caregivers have only seven minutes per unemployed person available, and this time will have to be further reduced due to the budgetary framework conditions. Even now, the course visit is usually not matched by what the person really needs in their situation, but by where there is no room. Unfortunately, economic criteria are now mostly decisive. There is already no such thing as individual funding, in which the unemployed can say that he wants to do a training in this or that area, which is then financed by the AMS. Ladies and gentlemen, we Greens say: Here is definitely saved in the wrong place! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Again and again I hear from you, Mr Minister, but also from other representatives of your party, how important these qualifications are and how important it is to help people to complete school if they have not done so to speak at the first start in the "normal" age. But what happens then? – So far, a major school degree has been possible in the context of a labour market policy measure. Now the Minister says that he is no longer responsible for this, and the whole goes to the educational resort. And then what does the educational resort do? – The educational establishment concludes an article 15a agreement with the countries, according to which the cost of such a project site, where one can catch up with a primary school, will be covered with €6 600 per course. When you talk to people who offer such projects that you can complete a high school, they tell you that the whole thing is good Quality of the measure only around the double – around the double! – this sum is possible. That means quite specifically: In the future, only half will be – only more than half! – the sum that is actually available for good care of such people who are trying to complete high school. You're saying, Minister, that's not your beer! You did nothing but just pass on the hot potato! But I think that as a Social Minister, it should always be your concern to support young people as much as possible in getting to a high school degree. It is precisely this Article 15a agreement that will either prevent this from happening or at least make it difficult to do so. Minister! Another keyword: Minimum security. They have announced or are also laid down in the law that we must evaluate here. . I would definitely like to point out two points where I see a massive need for action. This is also constantly announced by social counsellors, AMS business offices et cetera. It is a total problem that this clearing site, as originally planned, has not come. It is important that people who need support can go to a place that explains how the need is stored, and in accordance with this clarification, useful measures should then be recommended or allocated. As long as this is not the case, all these assistance measures and support are often a random flicking work, which is not efficient and therefore not particularly useful in the budget. - That's the first point. The second point is the inclusion of health insurance. This is for you the success story in relation to minimum security. The point is, however, that now minimum insurance providers have to finance their self-retainers themselves. While people who already have little financial resources are involved in health insurance, they are now being re-induced by the self-maintenance they have to cover personally. Although there are these health insurance booleans, you also know that they do not always jump in and that there is no legal claim in particular. These are two very important points in the context of minimum security. Unfortunately, a corresponding change in this budget has not yet been foreseen. Mrs Fekter has announced that there will be painful savings. I would like to announce here quite officially: If it is going to be true that in turn those who already have too little support and now already get too little support will also be those in which you put on the screws most, then you can expect massive resistance from the greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, some of the signs in this budget are already pointing in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27852	Mrs Oberhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27873	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to address Mrs Steibl's speech, who said that we should at last talk about the real things and have tried to explain the actual retirement age, but then actually declared the legal one. That means: That's not true! In addition, in your speech, you addressed I-pensions and said that we need a bonus malus system at the I-pensions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Mrs Steibl! We can and will also discuss a bonus malus system. [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] However, the invalidity pensions, when someone is ill, will not benefit from a bonus for further work, and there will also be no malus for the service provider to continue to employ someone who is sick and should go into disability pension. We know that the average pension of the I-pensionists is €500 for women and €1,000 for men, and if you want to explain to me that people fled there voluntarily, I think that's not true. I believe that this way we have now decided to prevent people from going into I-pension at all by getting them healthy at work longer and that investment in measures such as “Fit to Work” and “Rehabilitation before pension” is well-established money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The following applies to Mr Kickl's speech: The more polemic, the less content. This shows up with some speakers here in the house. [[Abg. Strache: You don't want to hear the truth, it hurts!]] That means: When you start insulting, the content is mostly flat. And if I look at what motions for resolutions you are making today, including one for the inflation adjustment of the care allowance - I think it has already been introduced - this would mean 64.8 million extra burden on the budget today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] One percent increase in care fees is 24 million. That is, we would calculate this from the care fund, and we know that in the care fund, except at the high care levels, a lot of money is not going into care, but into other services. That means you wouldn't support the caregivers, but other people. I think it will also be the adjustment of the pensioner price index, which would cost us € 40 million per year. All this sounds very nice, and then it usually says: Our money for our Leut’ – and not for Greece! [[Abg. Kickl: That would be an approach once!]] However, I think, the memory of people – hopefully – is a good thing. And if we remind ourselves of what you did when you were to the government, what you did to the pensioners at the time – black, blue, orange, colorful, name it as you like – what you did in the government at that time, there were pension reductions by deductions, removal of widow's pension, abolition of early retirement due to unemployment, higher deductions, deterioration of the age-part-time, pension reductions up to 12 percent. [[Abg. Strache: The colleague Kickl has never been to the government!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] You have pushed young people into pension funds – you all know what the pension funds are now: No success. That means talking big here, putting things on the table, but then, if you're in charge, just do the opposite, that's what the Freedom Party is doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e27984	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28020	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These were the usual teachings of the colleague Oberhauser, who actually said or did nothing else in her speech, as Mrs Steibl, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, or Mr Kickl, as Mrs Steibl, and as we see from her point of view, to teach the world. [[Accident with BZÖ and FPÖ]] I think you'll continue with the health debate. I have to see if I might speak before you; I would be glad if you correct me, then I will speak again. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Irrespective of that now: The overall social budget is one that has a great dynamic in expenditure, especially in the field of care and in the field of pensions. The areas of care and pensions are those of which each of us is at some point affected, be it in the care of old age, whether it be in a possible care. Therefore, every social minister must show a high level of social responsibility here. This high social responsibility, which I would like to hold here, has also been shown by the Social Ministers between 2000 and 2006, because at that time we have also laid the foundations for a pension system, where people are not constantly promised that everything is feasible, that everything is financeable, but that we have put it on a healthy footing, so that pensions are actually secured in the future for the next generations. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why it is so important in this area that you act in concrete terms and do not constantly delay out. Federal Minister! It does not matter whether we are European or world champions; it is important that the systems remain and can be financed in the future. [[Call:Egal isn't it]] [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] To the field of care: It is good – and I have already said that in various other speeches – that you have taken up the reform, the administrative reform, the aggregation of the disbursement agencies from over 200 to eight places up to now. That was a real and good step. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] We will see how it works, especially as regards the uniform criteria in the assessment of the care allowance. It was not good that you, even if you are always out of dispute, have de facto reduced the care allowance. The difficult access to care levels 1 and 2 is a de facto reduction and meets many people. I know from many conversations: People who apply for care money in these stages or for care money for the first time have very few opportunities to get this necessary care money. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: We are world champions, Mrs. Haubner! World champion!]] We do not agree with this transitional scheme of the care fund. It is 685 million, I think, or 635 million you have decided here, but this is not a definitive, not a sustainable arrangement. She goes until 2013/2014, and what is then? – We already expect a government to take action in this area in a truly sustainable and concrete way beyond legislative periods. The pensions: In 2010, 2.2 million pensions were paid, two thirds of which were paid to women. We see that more and more women have their own pension, even if their own pension is relatively low. The discussion of why women's own pensions are so low has already been conducted, we must lead, and I say here too, we must not know a taboo. The faster alignment of women's and men's pensions must be discussed in a serious way, as this difference in retirement age has failed so far because family work has not been properly assessed. Women who have children must have different framework conditions when they retire. There is still a lot of work to be done here: children's education times and care periods; a lot has already happened. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Or: Now, when it comes to wage negotiations in commerce, when it comes to calculating the time of retirement as a preliminary service, I think it is absolutely right and good. Something should happen here! And if these things fit, then, please, let's not tell women when to retire! I talk a lot to young women. They see this completely left, they don't see it ideologically. – Therefore, it is necessary to have a serious discussion on this subject and not to say that we are not talking about it at all. I would also like to say one thing: We from the BZÖ have presented a pension model where men and women can actually retire regardless of age of arrival, and in particular: Those who work longer then also have a higher pension. And in order to work longer, of course, it needs incentives, which is quite clear: Incentives for businesses, incentives for workers. Whether this so-called premium model proposed by the social partners is the right contribution I dare to doubt. I think it is more important to do something in the area of employers' contributions to unemployment insurance in order to keep older workers in the system for a longer time. And those who work longer should also receive a higher pension. The subject of privileges has already been addressed here. I don't want to say that Polish at all, but: Yes, there are privileges. And, Mr. Federal Minister, you are right, in the ÖBB this is done in 2014, only go to 2014 very many and benefit from these transitional arrangements, where everyone can retire at 52 years of age. Or at the post office: When I think about what is still being given to Golden Handshakes! – It can't be, and people don't understand that either. This also applies to the National Bank. You really shouldn't just talk about that, but at last you should abolish these privileges. You have also mentioned the transitional arrangements. I'm with you: We have too long transitional arrangements. These were, of course, then, 2003 and 2004, negotiations where your party, the Social Democrats, and the trade unions have said, we need very, very long transitional arrangements. They're falling on our head now. Therefore, we should introduce a bar to those who are constantly picking out of these transitional arrangements, because in the end, pensions must be so sure that they are still there for the next generations. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The increase in pensions will be 2.7 percent. I think that's absolutely right. It is the law that is adjusted according to the consumer price index. But what I don't understand is that high pensions also get an increase. This would now be a solidarity contribution in difficult situations, that these 1.5 percent for the really high pensions – for old pensioners among the politicians, for high civil servants' pensions and so on – would have been deleted once. This would also contribute to a secure pension system. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because I have recently been addressed that we have not voted in favour of this amendment as regards the reintroduction of the single wage reduction amount: Don't be angry with me, but with a policy that, in the year before, will take the single earner away this amount of money and give them back a little bit, but not the whole thing, and maybe we're still selling it a lot, we're not going to do it. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I believe that in the pension system, in the care system, it is not enough to turn on some screws, but there must be a sustainable concept. We ask you to do this again. When I think about the fact that Mrs Federal Minister Fekter said yesterday, we are telling the Austrians where it is going, even if it involves painful cuts, then I must say: She didn't say where it was going, she didn't say what painful cuts. That is why I ask you, Minister of State: Do you at least tell us the truth? What painful cuts do you plan in this social budget? Are there other painful cuts in the care allowance? In the 24-hour care? For people with disabilities? – If you don’t want to tell us or can’t tell us, it would be better to refer this budget back to the committee, because it’s a mogel pack.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28127	Mr Huainigg spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28149	Madam President. Minister! High house! Disabled people have a hard time at work. And especially the transition school – professional field represents a difficulty. That is why an employment offensive has been created in the Schüssel Cabinet. Not all that was then was bad. [[Call: “Not everything,” yes]] Clearing is a very good, a great example that it works. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Clearing works in such a way that the skills and talents of young people are taken, tested and then created support and concrete offers. This issue has proved to be so proven that it is now being extended to youth coaching that it benefits generally disadvantaged young people, who also receive individual support and advice and support. New jobs will be created in this area. The budget will be increased from €9 million to around €20 million for this item. This is well-invested money and very welcome. I would like to speak on another point, that is the pension. Here is a lot of money spent by the new pension increase: €1.3 billion. What I'm asking for here is a generation justice. Then: If 800 million of the family compensation fund is transferred directly to the pension fund without at the same time increasing family benefits, that is not fair. It needs a generation-righteousness. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the BZÖ and the Agg. Dr. Moser.]] Invalid pensions are very high, are extremely high, and I would like to say that the majority of disabled pensions have to be abolished, because they are a disadvantage to disabled people. They are believed to be doing good, but often the opposite is the case. I have often experienced that disabled people say: I went to the labour market service, wanted a job, and what I was offered is an invalid pension. They wanted to send me to pension even though I wanted to work! I have often experienced the fact that young people, young people 18 years old, have had a motorcycle accident and are sitting in the wheelchair, simply sent to the invalidity pension. This does nothing good for them, for they have little money, sit at home, and have no prospects or less prospects. They are deprived of opportunities and opportunities. In this respect, this system must be very carefully questioned, as well as professional protection. I think you have to look for individual solutions. If someone is disabled when someone is mentally ill, then you have to look for new opportunities, individual perspectives for those. It needs income protection, but it doesn't need professional protection. What I demand is a reform of the pension system. We need this urgently, and there must be a discussion without a taboo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28194	Next, Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28216	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to accept our request. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Oberhauser, because First of all, we demand things here and, at the same time, we also call for savings measures, and this cannot actually be reconciled, I can only answer you for this: In recent months, we have spent over €6 billion on people who do not live in Austria. For this we have provided more than €6 billion of Austrian state money. And you stand here and regret 42 million for 2 million people in this country?! – You should be ashamed of that as a Social Democratic! I can tell you this from here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is a matter of setting priorities, whether we say we want our money for our people, or not. We confess that we want this money for our Austrian citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When it is said that this is not manageable: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this House there is an official trade union who went into wage negotiations with a claim of 4.5 per cent for the officials! You didn't mention how we could afford this. The results are not even on the table. That means you can't even budget this, and you don't know how it will affect pensions. I would have expected a word from you. You have also been silent here, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and also of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we talk so much about saving and saving efforts here: I don't know them because we have 10 billion deficits. Where the savings will is, it's not obvious to me. But if we talk about it, I have to tell you: What about the ORF? The ORF undertakes an increase in the fees of television monitors who have already suffered. In the case of a miserable program, the chief manager Wrabetz grants a ten percent salary increase – and this salary increase of € 40 000 is now expected to pay the fee payer with its increased fee! [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Red-black adventure care!]] These are conditions, ladies and gentlemen, that is inexcusable! This is the money that a metaller deserves in the year, which Mr Wrabetz is now expected to receive in the month of increase in wages! The Social Democracy is silent about this. It's unsocial! Socialists are far from social. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only ones who still stand for social justice in this country are the liberals under their federal partyobmann Heinz-Christian Strache. For that, for this attitude, I also thank you very much from my side! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We've got price increases that are incredible. Increase in the price of heating oil: 21.4 percent, diesel price increase: 20 percent, super-fuel: 15 percent! People can no longer afford heating. And you're talking about a social Austria?- Oh, my God! I can quote from an article that reads as follows: An example of the dilemma in Austria: A five-member family from Perg in Upper Austria has left 180 € per month after deduction of all fixed costs. The father works, the mother can't take part-time job because she has to take care of the seriously impaired son. The cold temperatures put pressure on the family, because the tight budget leaves nothing for the 680 € expensive firewood. - Quote. Nearly a million Austrians live on the poverty line, and you, Mr. Sozialminister Hundstorfer, talk about it as good as it goes so dazzling. This is a complete ignorance of the actual situation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, at this point you have spoken with the ÖVP about a transparency data account. According to the State of Upper Austria and also the state capital Linz, nothing was known until yesterday. I therefore ask you why you do not address this. I could perhaps give you an explanation. Then it would be revealed that, for example, a foreign integration association named Maiz in Linz will receive 25 different fundings! [[Abg. Ing. Look at this!]] For this, you have the money, because these are your friends who represent you – not the Austrians! You have long passed this, ladies and gentlemen, [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can also say one thing to you: We have fought the 2007/2008 pension adjustment in Klagsweg. At that time we were the first, the only party in this House to follow this injustice legally. ==References====External links== The European Court of Justice has now given us a right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, Mr. Federal Minister, have stood here and told me: What do you want, Mr. Neubauer? They are constantly talking about us breaking the constitution. That's not true. – Skill You remember? [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer shakes his head in no way.]] You were here from this point of view. [[Abg. Street: Read in the protocol!]] That was you, I still have the record. [[Abg. Singer: Amnesia!]] Now it's ready: Austria was sentenced to discrimination. – A shame for this democracy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister Hundstorfer, this is also the reason why we have decided to demand an increase according to the pensioner price index. This judgment has said that there must be no discrimination in the future in the case of pension adjustment. But what are you doing? – You continue this discrimination by re-introducing a series, again this three-member seasoning. The highest pensioners are to be punished again and others served with stage targets. We don't play with it! This ECJ knowledge is to be discerned in a deciduous manner. I am already excited about what the Supreme Court will say about this interpretation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will definitely do one thing: If this is decided today, then after that day we will again take the path of complaint. We will again end up with the European Court of Justice, and we will again have at least 550 000 women in Austria in the same case. I call on you for the last time today, Minister of State: At least be a Democrat in this form! Guarantees It is the 550 000 people to whom the judgment of the European Court of Justice referred, having regard to the corresponding increase in pensions from 2007/2008! That's what I'm asking you to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28399	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28454	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28475	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neubauer, to your statement of entry, in which you once again took payment beyond our borders, I would just like to tell you that for social democracy and, as I think, for many Austrians, solidarity does not end at the borders of Austria. - That's to your entrance statement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I would like to tell you that distribution justice will continue to play a central role for social democracy and also for the Austrians in the future. In particular, with regard to the debt brake to be decided, it will be necessary to ensure that there will be no injustices in the distribution. That is why we are in favour of talking about a millionaire tax in the future, which you do not want to talk about, at least limited. I would also like to tell the listeners that the liberals are not for distribution justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to say a few words about people with disabilities, and I would also like to express my astonishment that the spokesperson of the BZÖ has not found a single word about people with disabilities. I am very surprised, colleague, because I actually know you as a committed disabled politician, but obviously this has not been so important today. For me in my actions, people with disabilities are particularly important, especially with regard to the economic crises that we have to deal with, because they are those people who often belong to the poorest, and we must ensure that they continue to have fair participation in our society. Our Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Kickl, also looks at people with disabilities in particular. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Watching is not enough!]] If you look at the budget, you will see that next year, 160 million € are budgeted for integrating people with disabilities into the labour market. With these 160 million €, ladies and gentlemen, a lot can be made for people with disabilities. In the previous year, for example, 42 986 people with disabilities were promoted. 350 employment projects have been funded, wage subsidies have been supported, and so important personal assistance at the workplace is supported by these funds. [[Abg. Kickl: Are there any salaries in the disabled workshops, or are they still fed with a pocket money? As far as I know, there's still pocket money there!]] I think this is a very important part, a very important contribution, because it is particularly valuable for people with disabilities to participate in the labour market, because it can ensure self-determination, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, I would like to say that, of course, many things still have to be done in the field of disability policy. However, I am very confident because we have launched the National Action Plan and this National Action Plan, which I am really convinced of, will contribute to the removal of disability policy from social policy and to the awareness that all areas of life are covered by it. I am therefore very glad that our Social Minister is continuing the working group on personal assistance in all areas of life and that this will also be included in the financial compensatory negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28540	Now comes Mrs Mag. I'm talking about Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28561	Mrs. National Council President! Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I begin my remarks, I would like to start by asking a question in the room, including you, Minister: Is disability curable? Now on the subject. – I know you are a very hard-working minister, there are a lot of people too, but I am always aware of it here in Parliament and also in society: The thought of caring presupposes. One does something for people with disabilities, they get something – and yet they complain. Then it says: What, you're not satisfied? It's not enough for you? You already get benefits! An example of this: Construction of nursing homes. Disabled people want something else. For example, you would like to have a personal budget to engage personal assistants. Self-determined life is the subject of making decisions for yourself. That is why it is very important to listen to disabled people, listen to people with disabilities to learn what they want. In relation to the budget allocation, we must also ensure that they get what they need and must not decide over their heads. That's one. The other thing is that we have to plan in advance in such a way that later on there are no conversions to plan the traffic in advance in such a way that it will not be expensive to remodel. That is the next point, as has been said. Another point in this context – we have seen a lot of money flow for disabled people in the Social Ministry, at the Federal Social Office: The Social Office no longer pays, but determines that the Ministries pay for their own costs, take over costs and pay what disabled people need. The philosophy behind it is good, everyone should take responsibility for it so that not a ministry is overloaded, but the problem is that the institutions do not feel responsible: What, we should pay for disabled people? No, the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible! - That's the problem. What I read from the figures is that we fail to involve people with disabilities at federal level, at regional level, at local level. They're part of society, they're not a small marginal group that doesn't touch us any more. The UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities has not signed you personally – it was a colleague of yours – but we are still responsible. Article 4 sets out the participation, participation of people with disabilities. I know you always invite me to do so, Mr Minister, and that is good, but one thing always comes up again and again when comparisons are made. An example: You need smart clothes, get a consultant, and pay him for his performance. Another example: You want to convert your apartment and need an architect whose performance you pay. But do people with disabilities also get advice on how to make laws well, to build accessible and so on, to pay for their performance? - No! In Austria, there are no basic subsidies for associations that are voluntaryly active, all of which do by the way, in addition to their professional requirements. That doesn't fit anymore, it's no longer contemporary. These people are to be rewarded. This is very important, and this is also part of the UN Convention for people with disabilities. Now I want to close the circle and ask again: Is disability curable? [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Is disability a disease?]] [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: No disease!]] – Disabilities are not curable, that is correct, but what you can “heal” are barriers. There are great commercials from the Germans, for example in the “spiegel”: “Handlers can be healed!” In Germany, this has already been a campaign for people with disabilities. It is very clearly printed: What is disabled are thoughts in the minds of society. The very clear message is that we have to deal with this task together in order to give people with disabilities a self-determined life. The sentence is beautiful, you want to make it as easy as possible for people. – In the sense of this philosophy, I would now like to appeal to you, Mr Minister, to think about it too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28620	Mr Donabauer has now been spoken on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28643	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens and here on the gallery! High house! I follow the discussions on the budget with great interest, especially those in the field of social policy. Both in the budget hearing and here in plenary, we have heard many contributions from the opposition and others, and I must say that I am actually glad that we have this Social Minister. I say this out of conviction because I have been here for many years and have also experienced many social ministers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This Social Minister would have made it easier if he had taken up the reform of Wolfgang Schüssel at that time. He can't do anything for that, that's clear, but I think he's on the best way to break things up and find a realignment. This issue is of great importance. It is not about licensing, ladies and gentlemen, but about securing what we have. And we have a powerful system that goes into all the living conditions. That is why it is too little to talk only about pensions. If we also talk about unemployment, we talk about illness, we talk about disability, we also talk about poverty! All of this includes this budget chapter, and to implement it, is our biggest challenge. The basis for this is, as I believe, a functioning economy and the revenues of the economy. Minister Hundstorfer has already mentioned that we currently have about 3.9 million people in employment. These are self-employed, they are self-employed in all areas, whether tradesmen, farmers or entrepreneurs, and they are all a job, and we must keep it. We must ensure the economic location by not imposing any insurmountable obstacles on businesses. We must stand up to it by training and training workers well, because then our social system will also be in order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many people – and you all know this – do not create the change of time, whether economic or technical, so too early is the great longing to retire. That is what we must see, and we must work towards, planning to convey a principle, namely: Working longer is worth it! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] It cannot be that all leave work at the first possible time and that all of this should be taken over by the state. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Our pension system is based on the generation contract. We must also think of the boys in all discussions. We must give them confidence and tell them that what we currently have will still be valid for them. I therefore believe that not only should the pension system for labour market policies be maintained. It has already been discussed several times today about the pension adjustment, and I have to say that I do not know exactly what I am doing. Once it's too much, once it's too little, pensioner price index and much more. I personally believe that this adjustment is reasonable. Above all, I would like to mention that the single-earner discount amount has been reintroduced up to €1,750. This is a huge achievement for all those with low pensions. This, ladies and gentlemen, is social policy, it has social symmetry! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Much has already been said about the care money today. What we've done, we can show ourselves, so we can show ourselves. Do not be sorry for the care level 1 and 2, but rejoice It's more about it. that we could raise the level of care 6, for these are the truly poor people! We welcome the introduction of the care fund and ensure that care at home with mobile services can be ensured in the future! Social policy is a matter for all of us. It must be based on people. A good social policy is something that every state needs. This ensures credibility and also ensures the democratic principle for all times!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28738	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28759	Madam President. Federal Minister! My previous speaker, Mr Donabauer, has just said that the population cannot adapt to the changes in the economy and therefore goes into retirement much earlier. I believe that the population can adapt very well, but this federal government cannot adapt to anything and does not do away with any reform! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We're talking about social security today. Let's see how many social insurance companies we still have! At least the interests of workers and employees have been brought together at the time of our participation in the government. But to this day you have failed to bring together the industrial economy and the agricultural social insurance system at last. I know, Mr President Donabauer will fight for his job, because it is nice to have such a well-dominated job with service cars, but à la longue will not pass by the fact that the hundreds of thousands of farmers who work 365 days a year, even at Christmas and Easter, will finally be freed from this policy, that there will finally be reforms, because if politics does not create the conditions for the farmer to finally become a free entrepreneur, then it will continue to be so that the farmer will have to act as a bitter of the ÖVP associations and groups, and I believe that no one will want it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are committed to ensuring that the farmer can earn the entrepreneurship fees, that he can also make a social security contribution to ensure a good pension. Today – we in Austria have very, very good systems – there are auxiliary farmers, and these ancillary farmers pay in three pension insurances. That can no longer be the meaning of this policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] And globally to this debt brake: The big debt has been made over the ÖVP over the past 25 years, and now with a bicycle brake she wants to brake this jubbojet on debt. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] I wish you good luck, too, because if you are not at last ready to make reforms, to make a pension insurance, to make a health insurance, to make an accident insurance, then you will fail. And there you are more than mere. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I will give you some examples where you can easily, quickly, really efficiently and above all socially – socially in the sense of the population – implement reforms so that they can be felt in the budget. You are totally juicy in the state and administration reform! It was only once necessary to create a single funding body, harmonisation of civil servants' systems, modern and moderate administration. That alone would bring €1.2 billion. In the health reform, that one finally brings together the 22 social security companies, that one finally takes prevention as a leading principle in health policy, that there is a financing only and alone from one source that one introduces a bonus malus system. This bonus malus system at the health insurance companies would bring you 2 billion right away. Or that once you make a savings package – because no one can understand it – among the politicians, that you halve the National Council, that you halve the land days immediately, that you reduce the national governments, that you finally do it, that you abolish the Federal Council completely, and that you finally abolish the Land and District School Councils, which nobody understands at all. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Call the SPÖ:Then you are the first to be gone!]] If you look at the ministerial cabinet: If these cabinets were only to enter a debt brake at their own rates and when they were advertised, you would immediately stop if you lower the representation costs by introducing a service car pool, you will immediately have savings of 65 million. The greatest potential you ever conceal: Why don't you go here and finally stop the tax loop that the banks use? No one understands that the banks are balancing on any island and that the Austrian taxpayer is missing €2 billion! These 2 billion could really be regenerated immediately. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Generate! “Regenerate” is really stupid now!]] [[Abg. Csörgits: Or reanimate!]] Above all, we need to go here and expand the audit competence of the Court of Auditors. That alone would bring €250 million. This budget is so headless that I'm really looking for: Put the budget back into the committees! Negotiating this again! Think about it before simply taking such measures without being aware of the results!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28879	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e28900	Mr President. Minister! The comments made by Mr Ridi Steibl have prompted me to speak on the subject of pension now, because I really can't hear it any more that it is always said above: We can't afford our pension system anymore! – and then so-called pseudoexperts like Mr Marin come and even call the hacker scheme “privileg”! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: He works for the government!]] I am not such an expert, but as a privilege, I consider that we can still afford to abandon the so-called millionaire tax to finance our welfare and social state. When we discuss the fact that for the next year, in the next year's budget – and that's not a cardboard stalk – €8.9 billion as the Federal Fund for Pensions, I now want to see this opportunity to put a little in the right light. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Donner builder and steibell.]] What I am missing from this whole debate is: Again and again, it is only said – whether at national or international level – that Austrians afford the “luxus” to retire at the age of 58.2 years. [[Abg. Steibl: Instead of 65!]] Only in this discussion will it be forgotten again and again that the invalidity pensioners are also included. [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] And here we arrived at a point where, in order to increase the actual retirement age, we need to discuss the following: Why is it that so many people go to disability pension that so many people get out of work for disease and are completely exhausted at the age of 40 or 50? Today, Federal Minister Hundstorfer has explained quite in detail that in the meantime there are numerous measures to encourage psychosomatic diseases to fight that projects such as “Fit to work” have been launched in order to increase the actual retirement age. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl]] Mr Donabauer mentioned this earlier. One reason for the innumerable invalidity pensions may also be that the pressure at the workplace has grown so great, because for me it is really incomprehensible, a study by the Chamber of Labour that in 2009, when 400,000 people in our country were unemployed, 314 million overtimes were carried out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti.]] And then you're wondering that people are sick and exhausted?- Oh, my God! . I believe that we must all place more emphasis on extending the protection of workers, on the whole of labour law. If someone in connection with the hacker regulation of “privileg”, “Luxus” or even a “fif-star state” speaks, then, as I think, these people are not aware that an average ASVG-pension is currently – age of entry in men 61.4 years – and this must also be mentioned, only €1 099. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl]] - And that's supposed to be "luxus"?- Oh, my God! Mr Wöginger is unfortunately not here, but: Luxury is for me, - apologise, dear Gustl! [[Abg. Wöginger: (Besides the bank series) Here!]] [[Abg. Steibl: He's already here!]] In my opinion, luxury is that we continue to afford the most diverse pension systems that we provide for transitional periods for officials who have three times as high as the ASVGlers until 2050. If Mr Lopatka goes over and over and over again and insults the small ÖBBlers, I can only say: We also afford the luxury of its political board, which represents several thousand euros. [[Abg. Kickl: When will Mr Cap change to the new system?]] I think we should be discussing the possibility of finally abolishing such privileges – and we should go on to create a single pension system as soon as possible, and not transitional periods of 45 years, Mr Wöginger!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29064	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29085	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Minister! In advance, you can notice positively that you're here. It is not natural, as we saw yesterday, that members of the government are here when they are treated or stay here during the debate. This is understandable because today and tomorrow we have discussed a matter and discussed it in the past, which will not bring about any changes in its consequence. That's why thank you for sitting here! Mr Minister, I would like to quote from the “Press” of the 12th century. November begins because Mr Fleischhacker has written very, very strikingly something about the discussion we are having today, namely that we are doing well and that we are getting better and better. Fortunately, we are doing well, but as opposition we are also measured by how we are trying to make improvements here. – Mr Fleischhacker writes: “At present, we are experiencing a more harmless mode of play of the Austrian tendency to push away: It is being suppressed that the country is in the process of going into an economic disaster. Whoever says this will be branded with indignation – outrage is a well documented symptom of displacement – as "alarmist"." – We have heard this today also in connection with our colleague Kickl. – And there seems to be good reasons for this: Austria has the lowest unemployment rate in the EU, it has an AAA rating on the government bond market, and it is one of the richest countries in the world at all.” – So far so well. "The fact that the low unemployment rate is bought more expensively by one of the highest early retirement rates, that the AAA rate is only available on paper () and that the current prosperity is based on a business involving third parties (near future generations) is hidden." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Our task, as has been said, is also to point out abuses. And, of course, that it is very, very tempting to end or simmer in our system in a social immigration system, I would like to prove to you here very quickly by means of a letter that the Vienna regional health insurance fund currently sends to all the doctors of the contract. This is about the collection of self-implementation in certain areas – in my area of dentistry – and this is simply a procedure that we are supposed to do and also have to do doctors who have the contract, namely that we should remove self-retain, of course – but of course afterwards, when a performance has been accomplished. And there is an invitation to do so before, because in the other case, the health insurance fund for defaults would have to jump in. That is justified now. The subsequent collection of the patient's share by the cash register causes a high administrative burden. – Yes, that is to be seen, all right, you can sign that. – In addition, most of the patient's shares taken over by the cash register are indisputable at the end of the day for the insured. Mr Minister, ‘immovable’! This is an admission of an institution that needs to know. That is to say, Mr Minister, we have actually been in the social administration. We have massive deficits. We all know that we can no longer benefit from the beautiful speech and can no longer bear any more. And there's another thing that Mr. Fleischhacker writes at the end of his article: "And also every single politician whose business model is the denial of reality acts rationally: Why should he put his office at risk through honesty and thus his material existence if he can keep it with displacement? “ I don't think there's anything else to say about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29159	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29180	Mr President. High house! Do you know when we started our meeting today? Madam President, the meeting opened exactly at 9 a.m. And do you know how many minutes have passed? – 133 minutes, I have already taken part of my speaking time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] And what do you think: How much interest have we spent on our national debt in these 133 minutes? [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Can you say anything about the social budget?]] To make it easier to expect it is for you and to understand: We pay € 1 million in interest per hour. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is, we pay €17 000 per minute only at interest rates, that is €2 221,000 for 133 minutes – only at this time that we sit in here. [[Abg. Kickl: That is why Mrs Finanzminister came to hear your speech!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We should talk about this, ladies and gentlemen. This is an amount that many Austrians can only dream of. The average earnings, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian is 30 100 € and the Austrian women are 18 100 € per year gross – gross, ladies and gentlemen. A quarter of the men and a little over half of the women have just over €17 000 gross in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But that's why hot air!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, we are only spending one minute on our interest-rate services for our public debt. That is to say, the path that our Minister of Finance has set out to save is the only right way, and I am very, very happy about it and congratulate our Minister of Finance and our Deputy Chancellor for allowing our coalition partner SPÖ to finally agree to the debt brake. This is the only right way for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Minister for Finance has already said several times: Degrading debt, pushing forward reforms and investing in the future – these are our key objectives. Where can we reform now? – Some previous speakers have already raised essential points; I would also like to discuss pensions here a little bit. Let's consider: What does it look like in practice? – Training our young people takes longer and longer. Then we have a relatively short time in our life, while we are setting up our families, we situate ourselves in our profession, we buy an apartment or we build a house and so on and so on. - And then we're already going to the pension. The average age of male retirement is 59 years – and this is at least 6 years under the statutory age of retirement – and women are retired on average at 57 years of age. [[Abg. Kickl: Who's been sitting for 25 years?]] That's 3 years too early. And we live even longer – thank God! Women on average are 83 years old and men are 78 years old. In this case, this short contribution period cannot go out for these long years of pension, which we then consume. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been important points where we can really save. The privileged areas have already been addressed. – ÖBB: It's not socially just what's happening there. The magistrate of Vienna was addressed: The pension system of the city of Vienna costs us up to 2042 350 million € – 350 million €! That's not fair, it's not socially fair. – Mr Federal Minister Hundstorfer, I think you are really very, very much required. In any case, we must implement reforms immediately, because only then can we see with a calm conscience into the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, really appeal to you: Please wake up They're not always needs that we can't cover without debt! We can't afford that. This not only hurts us, but also our children and children. I think it's time: We bundle our forces, for the benefit of our Austrians. It's high time! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29303	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hackl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29324	Mr President! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Two words to my previous speaker: I asked myself which group you belong to. [[Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti: The right one!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I think you're in a government group. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to refer to the consumer protection budget. There is relatively little to say: This is an annual continuation with small adjustments. It can only be hoped that the reduction due to the debt brake will not also affect consumer protection. But I would like to address two other important points in my short statement: I would urgently like to see consumer protection – and therefore from the ministry – an information campaign that puts the awareness of our people on a solid ground for the risk of Internet and telephony. There are studies finding that Internet and telephone crime worldwide exceeds the volume of international drug trafficking, so we're talking about a sum of almost 388 billion dollars. I do not want to list all the dangers that exist on the Internet and also on the new, modern phones, but the population is far too blue-eyed, relying on nothing to happen. One hears occasionally a shout in the press when some sportsman has 70,000 euros in phone billing, but the dangers are much more diverse. According to the motto “Kleinvieh ist auch Mist” there are hundreds and thousands of debits that so many fellow citizens do not notice at all. – So there would be a broad and reasonable information campaign really necessary. Finally, I would like to address my favorite topic. The seal of quality grows daily, is unclear and, above all, is no longer reasonable for our older fellow citizens. I therefore really demand a high-quality seal, which includes basic parameters – say: Austrian product, free from genetic engineering products and similar things – and not a seal of quality, each of which is a special seal, where one no longer sees through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29373	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29394	Mr President. Appreciate members on the government bank! Mr Hackl, you have now been the first speaker of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party to speak on the subject, where it is really important to deal with it. I think that the other Members of your group could take an example of this. I would now like to come to the area of social affairs. The path that Social Minister Hundstorfer goes with the Federal Government sets out priorities in the area of labour market, in the area of combating unemployment, in helping young people to get training, to get vocational training or school education and to be integrated into the labour market. In other European countries, ladies and gentlemen, it is the case that young people must camp in the capitals in order to draw attention to the fact that they have great training but are not needed in society. There, social democracy with the Social Minister is a 100% guarantee that this does not take place in Austria. - Thank you. Also in the case of pensions, work is done to ensure that older people who have spent their lifetime in the workplace in the last decades can reach their pension and that they can also retire as healthyly as possible and work as long as possible. Many working groups and working groups deal with this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are constantly talking about saving and how we need to tighten the belt, it is also important that we consider: How do we receive additional revenue for the Austrian state? Where, for example, can we collect a millionaire tax so that we can achieve a little more distribution justice? We should not move in the direction that only those people who go to work who pay for the state make all the contributions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address this precisely because it has outraged me, just like Mr Öllinger, that there are such words used by the Liberal Party that you are talking about the fact that there are people who have gone on and who have survived. [[Abg. Kickl: Have you never heard the term “Economic Refugee ”?]] This division again shows that you are eternal and have no claims. [[Abg. Singer: Now you were almost sympathetic to me!]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, you have tabled today a request to increase the pensioner price index, but voted against the increase in the pensioner's amount on Tuesday. [[Abg. Singer: The smear is already going...!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! In social policy matters you have no idea and have resigned.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29466	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29487	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! So much on the subject of substance in the debates, Mrs Deputies colleague. Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti, who is unfortunately not here, has to say: So to bear 25 years of government responsibility, to present the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, and then to tell us what we have to do with interest, that is a strong piece. Shut up, ladies and gentlemen! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. List.]] Mr. Federal Minister, I come to my topic. As an apprentice speaker, I would like to address the field of skilled workers and the lack of skilled labour, which will be known to everyone in this House, and also to highlight what measures the Federal Government is taking, and especially the Federal Minister. It is quite clear to us liberals that there are several reasons for the threatening shortage of skilled workers. On the one hand, we have fewer and less 15-year-olds, who are also capable of training. That has several reasons, we know. This is the demographic change that will strengthen in the next few years, but of course there are also shortcomings in education where we all have to work to bring more 15-year-olds into education. But, this too must be an assignment for all of us: The image of teaching has also suffered in recent years. I think it will not be enough to lift the image with any image campaigns and any coaches, but we are all required to bring about a rethinking in society as well. It would also be possible to take very specific measures, Minister of State. They told us today that we liberals would operate with wrong numbers. I'll take your numbers from the past you presented here. You said that we have almost 120,000 apprentices in business training. However, it must also be added that in 2008 it was still 129 000, so we have a minimum of 9 000 operational apprenticeships in Austria. We liberals also say quite clearly that the path taken by you and by social democracy, but also with the support of the ÖVP, is also the wrong way to always put over-company training on the basis of operational training, where genuinely qualified training takes place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the apprentice officer of the Federal Government Egon Blum, who was, interestingly, deposed in 2008, when it was already necessary to realize that we have problems in this area, has done a good job with his model of the Blum-Bonus. It would also be the right way in Austria to back up operational training, to say again, Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti – who is also a representative of small and medium-sized enterprises – that qualified training is also taking place there. If we do not put in place the right measures here, ladies and gentlemen, then we will have nothing to do with the low level of youth unemployment, because at some point we will have young people who have a training, but who are still unmedial in the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29573	The motion for a resolution tabled is being discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29643	Next speaker: Federal Minister Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29664	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kunasek! We will still be discussing this in the Committee, because the 120 000 operational apprenticeships are all being promoted. All are promoted according to the same system. I do not need Mr Blum to promote, but I simply need the willingness of the companies to provide training facilities. I've said this so many times, and I've told you here too: Every OCTA I can lock, I'm happy about that. That's not my topic. I only need the OCTA because the enterprises do not provide training enough for all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's the way it is!]] What I say again is the same thing I said on Wednesday. We have a plus of occupational apprenticeships in the first year of education compared to the past. [[Abg. Bucher: In tourism it is the other way round!]] – It is a plus of the occupational apprenticeships in the first year of education. Please always listen! What 2008 was the Minus, I now have in the third year of class, I can't compensate for that. I can only go through the course year for the course year. But I didn't even want to say that. Ladies and gentlemen, I had to speak again because of a speech because I am being called for a breach of justice. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, I know you don't care about certain things from the polemics. I know that certain things are completely wreaked to you. What you're asking for here is not my topic. But if I were to be called for a breach of justice, I would ask you to really consider whether you would continue to do so in the future. There is no ECJ knowledge in which everything is discriminated against, for the Supreme Court has asked the ECJ: Will the 2008 pension adjustment violate the Equal Treatment Directive – yes or no? This has been the question raised by the Supreme Court to the ECJ. If you read the judgment of the ECJ, you would also insist that there is, you can do whatever you want. I still have no knowledge of the Supreme Court, because this recognition of the Supreme Court is only the effective knowledge: Was there discrimination in 2008? In what relationship was there discrimination? And for which reference group of pensions did discrimination exist? That's the procedure. I do not think we should ask a member of the government to break down and understand something for which there is no legal title! [[Abg. Kickl:... the Constitution broken!]] And so far, all your efforts in the field of pension law have ended at the Constitutional Court in Nirwana. As a result: Let's leave that where it is! There was a person with 143 others, 131 of them from Upper Austria, who took the right path – is okay. This is their right in a rule of law. The Supreme Court asked the ECJ: Is there a directive being violated? But I have no answer from the institution that has to make a decision for Austria. I didn't. I have no judgment from the OGH. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But from the ECJ!]] – The ECJ is not the one who is allowed to judge. Please read the Austrian legal order and stick to the rule of law! Don't blind people with something you know very well that it's wrong! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29759	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer – Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29780	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Minister, I now address you as Minister for Consumer Protection, if it is right. I would like to focus on older consumers. Older people do not always find themselves right in this fast - moving period. That's why they need our special protection. The 50plus generation is also the largest group of buyers and has the greatest purchasing power of all ages. Therefore, more consideration should be given to them. The big current problem is inflation. Many people can't afford everyday life at all, every euro has to turn around three times. They need help, for example with regard to energy costs. As a result, low-level information, easy-to-understand information for seniors, how they can save energy, how they change providers more easily and much more. Annoyance pricing. Currently, large packs are often cheaper than small. Single and single seniors have to put a disproportionate amount of money on the table for a single pack. We also need cheaper and smaller packs. I'm sorry, Lockoffs. Whenever you want to buy a discounted product, it is sold out. There's a need for stricter rules. Consumers must not be fooled by lock offers. Annoyance Labelling of food. Many consumers are insecure. There's a confusion about labels. Almost every day a new seal of goodness is invented. Who else knows? – In Germany there is a new information platform form. We could also use an authorised information platform where consumers can become smart. In any case, there is an urgent need for greater clarity. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Gutesiegelgesetz!]] A serious, particularly painful problem: A lot of food lands in the trash. Goods, which can often be enjoyed well even after the minimum durability date, are in the fog in Austria. Trade should give these foods to social institutions. That's where it takes a rethink. Our good food isn't in the trash. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Older people often depend on drugs. To save money, in turn, keyword: Tension, turn to the Internet, buy cheaper offers there. I can only warn you about that. Get your hands off me! There are more controls needed to ensure that only safe medicines arrive in Austrian patients and not harmful products cause major health problems. One last word on the Consumer Protection Committee. There is very material and very constructive work. I would also like to thank all the colleagues who are really involved in this very intensive process. Much has already been done if you look at the area of pick-up when calling and on the Internet. We have already taken a step forward together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29829	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29850	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! Mr Lap, Mr Oellinger! Eternals are not those, are only those that the eyes before the past... Are not those who close the eyes before the present... [[Abg. May. Honey: That was very confusing now!]] – Eternally heated are only those who close their eyes before the present and permanently quote in the past. [[Abg. Riepl: Now it has voted!]] Today we experience many economic refugees, who are not willing to build their home country, but rather want to flee into our Austrian social system. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Lapp: Please!]] This makes them different from the Austrian seniors who built our state at the time. That is what Mr Kickl mentioned. But you are still eternal and quote in the past and not in the present. That's the difference! Let me come briefly to the topic of care money! Mr Minister, last year you said – I suppose the number is similar this year – that we have about 60 000 applications per year. We have increased the care requirement for the care level 1 to 60 instead of 50 hours and in the care level 2 to 85 instead of 75. According to your remarks, the “damage effect”, as you call it so nice, is €20 million – €20 million, which the welfare state of Austria saves at the expense of our pensioners. If I see the care costs according to the Lower Austrian relief agency – which I have now deliberately chosen because it is a possible organization – then the costs for the care per hour are between €12 and €22 depending on income. In other words, at the expense of the seniors, we save the hourly rate from €3 to €2.50, which we pay. So we're saving ourselves a little bit here. However, we burden the individual with these ten extra hours with 120 to 220 € per month. Well: We know that care providers are mostly pensioners, those who built our country back then and did not escape as economic refugees. The SPÖ likes to place social justice, and you as a social minister should actually be the social conscience of our government. Mr Minister, before promoting banks and speculators across Europe in the future, we should first be careful to ensure that the socially weak and the needy are promoted. This is social justice, as it sees FPÖ as a social home party.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29919	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e29941	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! If we are discussing the 2012 budget today, the area of work and social affairs is a very special part of this budget for me. In my opinion, work and associated with adequate and fair income and social security is the basis of every modern society. However, this also means that it is important to support those who cannot earn their income on the first labour market – support in the form of financial benefits, but also support through qualification measures. This requires a committed labour market policy. This also requires the necessary financial commitment. This budget, where more than €1 billion of financial resources are provided for 2012 – thus the third highest ever estimated budget for active labour market policy – sets a clear signal so that we can effectively counteract unemployment in the future. This political will and this labour market policy commitment require special efforts to implement of course – on the one hand through politics and, of course, by the economy. The past few years have shown that politics and the economy together have met these challenges very serious and committed, and the European comparison in particular confirms that we have been very successful here. 19 months of declining unemployment is the best proof of a committed labour market policy, and I congratulate you very much on it, Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! A positive perspective will be signalled in this budget with the maintenance of the training guarantee until 18 years. The commitment that we wish to provide every youth up to 25 years of age with a job, qualification or training measure within six months is also an essential element. The funding of apprentices, as already mentioned, in the amount of 160 million, which is guaranteed in the budget, is also a correct and important approach. Ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that with the labour market policy budget, we will be able to deal with the challenges we will face in 2012 in order to ensure that in the future, too, we will be able to achieve the same level of unemployment. In order to be able to keep low in order to be the first priority in European comparison. I would like to focus briefly on the debt brake, which is currently under discussion and which, of course, is also linked to saving. I think that saving is inseparable from distribution justice. For us, this tax revenue, the millionaire tax, is an important part so that we can bring about more social justice. A discussion about this is at the highest level of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30001	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30022	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Social policy does not work in the zigzag course. Social policy needs continuity, further development needs to be developed and economic stability and economic success must be given, because only if you are economically successful, my colleague, can you distribute something too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: That could be mine!]] Let's take a look at the bow we've been straining in recent years. The Schüssel government – you know it very well, Mr. Cot – which has continuously reduced government debt and then reached below 60 percent in 2007. And then the crisis came in 2008. The government then made a very targeted and very punctual investment. And the success has been shown in three areas. First, in the labour market: Yes, we thank God for the highest number of jobs and we have the lowest unemployment rates in the EU, also – thank God – as far as youth unemployment is concerned. The second point: in the maintenance and further development of social benefits and also in pensions. The success – third – has also been demonstrated by the fact that we have a scope for design in the social field. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that we need to further develop our social system, our social services, in order to help precisely those who need our help. We have to say goodbye to a casting pot principle according to the motto “a little something for all”, where then the one who really needs it gets too little. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the budget estimates for the coming year and the preview for the coming years show that there is movement, but there is still much to do. Mr Federal Minister, I can only ask you to continue working as hard as possible, but I can only give you a few points of which I believe it is important that they be resolved as quickly as possible in the next few days. Respond to the pension privileges at the city of Vienna and also to the Austrian Bundesbahnen! [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] Take action as regards the flight to early pensions, and improve the control system as regards minimum security! 11 000 minimum pensioners in Lower Austria, 82,000 in Vienna with almost the same population – there is something that cannot be voted in Vienna! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another point: We are finally developing our transparency database and we are implementing it so that we can really see specifically who gets what from whom, and in this way we are directing the achievements in the right direction! Mr Sozialminister, I know how committed you are to work. Clarify these points, and I am convinced that social policy will continue to be a successful path in Austria over the next few years!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30083	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30104	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! €2.25 million is available to the consumer site. Most of this amount goes to the most successful social security institution, namely the Consumer Information Association, which has grown 50 years old this year, an association that has developed from Eva Preiß, Fritz Koppe and Harald Glatz's purchase consulting association to the current VKI and to what he is today. The Consumer Information Association is successful in enforcement, in actions against companies, in the preparation of collective complaints – keyword: Auer-Welsbach or AWD – but he also conducts pattern processes for consumers in Austria. In addition, he has extensive activities in the field of comparative product tests. I recall the current test where olive oil from all over the world has been tested, whether it is actually cold-pressed olive oil or not. The main work of the staff is certainly in the field of consulting and intervention. I would like to take this opportunity and thank you very much for this dedicated work of the employees in the Consumer Information Association on behalf of my group. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Consumer policy is constantly facing new challenges. For example, in the field of information. This concerns in particular the younger generation when it comes to informing about the dangers on the Internet and the problems that arise in Internet business. But it is also a question of providing clear positions when legislation is being prepared at European level that concerns consumers. At present, the House is about a new act, which is being prepared to introduce a common European purchasing right, which, from a consumer perspective, but also from an entrepreneurial point of view, says the opinions of small and medium-sized enterprises from all over Europe, does nothing at all. Mr Federal Minister, if this is the case, legal uncertainty in Europe will continue to rise. Businesses will be taxed, but consumers too. I should like to ask you, on behalf of my group, to take a very clear position on this issue of European common purchasing law in the sense of Austrian consumers, but also in the sense of Austrian companies.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30151	Next speaker: Mr Praßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30174	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief report on consumer protection: In essence, the estimated funds are used to support the Consumer Information Association. Total consumer protection expenditure remains almost unchanged in development and compared with 2010 and 2011. The Consumer Information Association represents the interests of Austrian consumers, and I think that is very, very important. The journal “Consumer” refers to special topics, the “Consumer” has around 70,000 subscribers. Of course, Mr Minister, it is very welcome that you will continue to work for clarity in food labelling in the future. The label must be clearly clear, easily understandable and ultimately a model for the many buyers. The safeguarding of food quality has a particularly high priority with us in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection has a very, very high priority in Austria. [[Abg. Oils: It would be nice!]] We must continue to work with all our efforts to maintain and safeguard this importance and, ultimately, to improve consumer protection in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30209	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30230	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! In short, to my previous speaker: I'm all your opinion. We must finally make sure that we bring down a quality seal regulation in order to make it clear to consumers. It was addressed by my previous speakers: 70 percent of the funds go to consumer information, advice, information and enforcement. In the year around 250 procedures are conducted by the CCI to enforce consumer rights. I would like to point out that this is not only happening centrally in Vienna, but also in the individual Chambers of Workers. Here's where I want to get out of Carinthia: There were 34 500 deliberations last year and 2 000 interventions which have already provided assistance to people without court proceedings. As I said, there are 250 procedures a year in total in Austria. The journal “Consument” has also been addressed. An important reading that should not be missing in any household in order to obtain corresponding information. But I am not allowed to take a short step back to the social debate, because here in this round, certain professional groups are being played out against each other and put on the Pranger. If we have heard many times today from ÖBBlers who do their work, I would like to say to your information that ÖBBlers pay 43 percent higher pension contributions and 50 percent higher pension contributions. That we know what we're talking about here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We should not play out the workers against each other, but we should actually think about how we get to the funds. If the workers make their contribution in this Republic, I actually lack that in the field of the wealth. And we should consider the proposals of our Federal Chancellor and discuss the fact that the wealthes should also make their fair share in this republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30278	Next speaker: Mr Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30300	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! Federal Minister! High house! A word to my predecessor from the FPÖ, on the subject of apprentices. We from the ÖVP and also the government are on a very, very good path as far as the question of apprentices is concerned. But I also admit that there will be a hard and long way to go because every unemployed youth is too much for a unemployed youth. However, it is also clear that we are very concerned about young people, and we want to demand and promote young people and not to incite them, perhaps not here in the high house, but through your campaigns, and on the other hand, to provoke the young people. Now to the actual point of my speech, which is very important to me as a boy representative here in the House. It is important that fair social policy is made in Austria. Justice – above all generation justice – must be included, and everything must be done to ensure that something remains for future generations. There we are, I think, all of us here agree. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order for this to happen – and I am very grateful to the Federal Minister – the debt brakes will and will have to come, because this debt brake will enable the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to allow for even more future, we must also abolish the special pension schemes that are still in place in our country – that has been mentioned today by the public – in the case of the ÖBB, at the magistrate of Vienna – in the sense of justice for all others! That's where you are called, Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the opposition in general, but unfortunately again mainly to the colleagues of the FPÖ. I followed the debate very closely yesterday and yesterday. I often noticed that you are so fond of being a social home party. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Are we too?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Well recognized!]] In part, the colleagues from the BZÖ. And then she refuses approval of the debt brake, which allows for the future! [[Abg. Kickl: The cat in the bag, it might play with you! What's in there in the debt brake, Mr. Colleague? Explain this to me!]] That means that you are neither a social party nor a future party, Mr. Kickl! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You don't even know what should be in there!]] But I can assure you that we will create a social future by the ÖVP with our Federal Minister and our members of government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30405	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30427	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The consumer protection budget for the year 2012 is accordingly presented. In order for this to remain the same after 2012, I believe that it is necessary for us to stand for more distribution justice – more distribution justice in that we also use a millionaire tax in Austria. There are, as we know, around 80 000 euro-millionaires in Austria, and I believe they can also make a corresponding solidarity contribution to the fact that the budget will continue to be good after 2012. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, consumer protection issues meet us on a daily basis, whether we make purchases, contact banks or insurance companies, or book a holiday. There are pitfalls in all these areas. It is therefore of particular importance that the Ministry of Consumer Protection and Institutions and the Consumer Information Association take care of health risks as well as the protection of our economic interests. From this point of view, I would like to congratulate the Association for Consumer Information on the 50th anniversary. It is committed in a very targeted and strong way to the concerns of consumers in Austria, as well as to consumer protection departments of the Chamber of Workers or consumer protection departments of the national governments. I should also like to point out briefly: For example, in the Burgenland in 2010, about 12,000 consultations were held by the Chamber of Workers and about 1,300 consultations by the Consumer Protection Department of the Burgenlander Land government. This trend is increasing not only in Burgenland, but also in all other federal states. It is also rising because there are new and special challenges for consumer protection, such as the introduction of new technologies. I would like to point out that it is mainly children and young people who are always on the glue, but not only children and young people, but also adults. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank all those who stand up for the interests of consumer protection – whether they are working in the Chambers of Workers, the consumer protection departments of the state government or in the Ministry of Consumer Protection. First of all, my special thanks to our Minister for Consumer Protection – Rudi Hundstorfer a warm thanks for your commitment to the business of the consumers in Austria! Finally, I am confident that you, Mr Minister, will do this: Keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30479	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30500	Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Sozialminister! Values Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear viewers in front of the TV screens! It is already a very strong piece when representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ make up here and call for higher pensions and better measures for even more poverty reduction, because it was your two parties who ultimately abandoned the workers, pensioners and pensioners, in your government participation from 2000 to 2006. ==References====External links== In June 2002, a pension reduction reform was adopted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Why did you ask the employees, pensioners and pensioners to cash out? Why did you make richer? Why did you make poorer arms? Why Have Do you increase your pension payments if you now express a different opinion? [[Abg. Dolinschek: We have introduced the hacker scheme – without any fees!]] Why did you make demands worse? Sigi, you were also there when pensions were reduced, when the basis for calculation was extended for the duration. Why? [[Abg. Dolinschek: You don't know yourself! You haven't been in there yet!]] This is your policy for the little people: none at all. And any party that is now talking about wanting to be the social home party may be ashamed because you were the ones who ran away at the time. And when the colleague Kickl speaks of the liberals of that: Mr. Kickl, your party is on the 13th. May 2003, that is where 200,000 people have demonstrated against further deterioration in pensions in the face of pouring rain! We were outside with these people – you have locked yourselves in here and have continued to advise on how you can pull the money out of your pockets! [[Abg. Dolinschek: You from the union gave us the parallel bill!]] That's the truth, and this is history, you can't talk it away, you can't be beautiful; and that hurts you. [[Abg. Kickl: The whole union is a single flight movement...!]] Because this hurts you so much: Instead of apologizing to the people you brought to these deteriorations at the time, you criticize our Social Minister with a circular envelope that is unwarranted only to distract you from your sins. [[Abg. Dolinschek: This is a joke that you give of yourself!]] People at home in front of the TV show don't know who to believe. The fact is, we have the best social minister we can imagine! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister Rudolf Hundstorfergeging makes it even closer in economically tense times to our social network in Austria: with minimum security, with pension increases, with the care fund, with the reduction of early pensions reductions, with I-pensions and heavy-worker pensions from 1. January 2012; you have introduced the higher discounts at the time. [[Abg. Kickl: I've always believed you've got a little ground liability from the union!]] This is social policy, it is a social minister! And one final to you from FPÖ and BZÖ: Its social improvements, its achievements and its social policy in the interests of the people of Austria are not bad for us as a coalition of you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I am looking forward to the discussion on the debt brake! I am curious what the contribution of the Minister for Social Affairs will be!]] Mr Sozialminister, please let your way to maintain our social network, our social system in Austria, which is not bad for some blue or orange annual market speaker, and do not let yourself be turned away from it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30677	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30698	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! 213 317 people in Austria have been insecured in recent weeks, 213 317 people in Austria have been plagued in recent weeks and 213 317 people have been employed as social blackmailers in recent weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, these are exactly the 213 317 I-pensionists we have in Austria. If it was said here this morning, they're dizzying into the early board, then I can only say: None of the I-pensionists are disappearing into a disability pension because these people are all sick, ladies and gentlemen! For example, these people have an esophagus cancer, these people have a brain tumor, for example, these people had heart attacks and can no longer work after 40 years of hard work, when they are 55 years old and have broken themselves. These people, ladies and gentlemen, do not go into a disability pension, but these people deserve a security as we do with the disability pension in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! Another thing to do with the “swirl”: Experts and doctors decide who gets a disability pension, and not the one who wants this pension himself. Considering that there is still § 255 in the ASVG, which says that only when a lesser activity on the labour market cannot be completed to more than 50 percent can one receive an invalidity pension, does one know what that means for these people? If there are opinions from the experts that say you can only lift two kilos, you can't bend, you can only sit 15 minutes, but you can only stand 15 minutes, but you're working, then you have to think about what you're doing in the course of the I-Pension! Then one really has to make reforms here for the benefit of these people in Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, in order to help these people, we need a wealth tax, so we need a millionaire tax. Save must not be carried out on the back of the sick in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30739	No one is reporting on this. The discussions on this subject are thus completed. [[12:05:50]] UG 24: Health
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30760	We come to the negotiation of sub-division 24: Health. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30787	Mr President. Minister of State on the Government Bank! High house! Yes, the health budget is one thing, Mr. Federal Minister. In the health budget, however, it was not to be expected otherwise, only some kind of plague, just as the health policy of recent years has shown itself here. Federal Minister! In fact, they have not attacked anything in health policy. There is nothing at all that would point towards a health reform. We still have double conductions, multi-tracks, we have a multi-class system in the hospital in treatment. You don't really want to make people know that you abolished the two-class medicine. It's illusory! However, private health insurance continues to advertise the fact that people will be operated earlier when they conclude this contract. What to do You against that, Mr. Federal Minister? - Nothing. Instead, turn on ads: I abolished the two-class medicine. Mr. Federal Minister, you can't do that! There is no two-class medicine in Austria, there is at least one three to four-class medicine. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I listened very attentively to you last Sunday at the “press hour”, and it was already clear that there is no health policy in Austria from your resort. Instead, you'd rather move to any side-by-side venues. For example, you want to fight the smokers quite massively. You do not care if there is legal protection for gastronists who have only been rebuilt a few years ago. So it's an absolute chaos you're doing in smoking policy. Or also your favorite hobby: the National Diet Plan. In fact, you didn't do anything new, but you took the food pyramid, exchanged the apple juice with the mineral water below, and you said: This is my new pyramid – I am now sending the consultants to the school buffets, and then all the children in Austria will suddenly be fed more healthy! Mr. Federal Minister, you have to think a little more about this. There are still school buffets where there is no healthy diet at all, where there is the liver cheese cream in exchange with the chocolate. In reality, these are the school buffets, where the Coca-Cola-automat stands and besides soft drinks, nothing is available for the children at all. And that's where you talk great about what you've done in the field of nutrition, and you'll make people healthier. In doing so, we have statistics that age diabetes now also has ten-year-old children. What are you doing here? – Nothing you do! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Please say something good too!]] You make any high-gloss brochures, make up any work force, you bind a number of officials in your house who are supposed to work out any nutrition plans instead of addressing the real problems in this Republic, Federal Minister. Overall, one can say that in this resort you lead, there is a financial and organizational disaster. Or what you've brought all new, under the cover: They want to protect children under 14 years of age from beauty operations: In fact, you are now acting as a lobbyist for any financial partial interests of individual medical groups and trying to play different medical groups against each other. This is bad, Mr Federal Minister, because in fact you are ruining even more than has already been broken. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to mention one aspect very briefly, and that is the ELGA. Mr. Federal Minister, you sit on TV, tell me great things: This will come now!, without involving all doctors, but you obviously don't care, because if you put something in your head, do it, if necessary with a regulation. The ELGA – which my colleague Strutz will later carry out even more precisely – is the largest financial disaster and also organisational disaster that has ever occurred in the health field. I would advise you, Minister of State: Back to the beginning of the ELGA, from the beginning! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this reason, I now put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Oberhauser, you're already in the start position. I hope you've written well because you've got it a little hard in your speech now. You only have me as a previous speaker now. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: That's enough!]] In terms of content, there is probably nothing to be expected of you as always. That means you'll repeat it all again now – and that's good and that's nice, because this makes it possible for the people at home to hear our positions again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30886	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30965	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e30986	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, your speech is usually sufficient to replicate what we have in the health budget, especially for children, is an extension of the children's vaccination program. That's something we haven't had for years that we were able to expand something in prevention. I see this as a very, very big step, especially for the children and also for their parents who benefit from the fact that they no longer have to pay for these vaccinations. They criticised the fact that the Minister did not do anything in the field of health reform. I believe that what took place last year alone in discussions with the countries is remarkable. We are all in agreement, I assume that the competence of the Minister of Health in the situation we are currently having depends on the fact that both countries and social security companies make these plans together with him. I think that on the question of how we deal with it, we have already come relatively far. That means that since the Minister is accused of inactivity, I think it is wrong. On the question of two-class medicine. – I am quite right that there is two-class medicine or a multi-class medicine in hospitals and in health care. However, I believe that the step with the transparent waiting list system, which has now been enforced and which Vienna has been making for a very long time, has shown that the waiting times for operations are quite objective and that a step has already been taken against the two-class medicine. They said that on the question of nutrition we bind a lot of forces – and nothing happens except that food pyramids are recorded. I'd be interested in what your suggestions are. You said there were Coke vending schools, there were unhealthy buffets. - Yeah, I'll give you that. If you tell me what the Minister of Health should do: Is he supposed to go through every single school and take off the Coke automats? Should he go to the school buffets and say: I'll take it away!? – I think that's not realism. And I also believe that we are far more than the Americans are, for example. I don't know if you read a press release yesterday, after which the US government lost the fight against pizza and pommes in schools. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Thank God!]] There we tried to do what our minister did with the Minister of Education, namely to make healthy school buffet guidelines for healthy school buffets. Do you know who the US government has lost to? - Against lobbyists. That is why I am very pleased when Mr Strutz will speak to the ELGA afterwards. The US government has lost to lobbyists such as the National Deep Pizza Institute and the National Potato Council. We have such a thing, thank God, not in Austria. We have a minister who, on the one hand, looks to the fact that health care is equally accessible to all people and further financeable, on the other hand, it is also important to prevent and, on the other hand, to provide for our children, of whom we all say that they are our future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31023	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31044	Mr President. High house! Estimated Minister of State! You know how I am, your budget is relatively small and your skills are certainly not sufficiently large. No pleasant situation. What are we supposed to talk about today? They depend on appeals, on cooperation between countries, health insurance companies and multiple players in the health system. That limits your room for play massively. There is a health reform on the paper. The law is basically good, I would say it's innovative, but it takes money to implement it. That is, we should talk today about what experts have been telling us for 20 years and we have been listening to every discussion here in the house for 20 years and what could actually make you crazy, because the situations do not change. There are extremely confusing budget paths, extremely confusing and fragmented levels of competence and hardly a federal trend that every patient, every patient, has the same right to good, quality-secured care. They must conclude Article 15a contracts with the countries. You have to imagine this: In an eight million republic state agreements with nine federal states! The result is: We have ten hospital laws. You don't want to. But the countries ultimately dominate and have to be moved with money to do so, relatively good, I say, to formulate the principles of your resort in implementing laws, which then usually have to level down a lot and make a lot cheaper and let some of what you wanted to do in federal political terms. Let's see what interfaces there are still! That was a central point of your reform. There were installed among your predecessors regional health platforms, which have three areas of work – all interfaces: the established area, the stationary area and a cooperation area. There is an absolute majority of one of the key players everywhere: in the settled area the cash registers, in the stationary area the countries and in the cooperation area unanimity. No wonder that only 30 percent of the funds that this cooperation and reform pool pot has are used in Austria at all! I think this is a massive scandal! This law must be amended: Health insurance funds must and should be allowed to talk more in the stationary area. There is only business thinking, economic aspects of health costs are completely covered by the table. This is an ongoing “Black Peter Game”: One is saved, the other has to pay it. This does not change health costs at all. They have made a big, praiseworthy program for children's health. When I look at what children get for therapies – there were two big questions to you, which were mainly answered by cash registers, and that is the latest joke: The checkouts have partially admitted not to know how many children receive which therapy, in which age groups. They don't know! That is, health policy data, which could also force political action, are often not there, are vague, not comparable or hidden somewhere in a drawer. That's what I'm asking myself: How can one make politics? When I see that the percentage of children using logos, ergotherapy, physiotherapy, psychotherapy, in Austria the factor 4 varies from state to state – around factor 4! – and in Germany, five times more insured children receive these therapies than in the Austrian section, I have to say, something cannot be true. In the case of mental illness, it goes to the same. It is commendable that the main association commissioned a study. After that, 900 000 Austrians use health care due to mental illness. 800,000 take psychopharmaca, starting with the 12th year. You have to look at this: The largest ascent rates are in the Styria among the group of 16-18-year-olds. Then you go here and say, Yes, mental illness is the main reason for the high number of invalidity pensions. What does Mr Klubobmann of the ÖVP say, head, to that? – These mentally ill, who are in retirement, must take a look at the official and consider whether he should not take away the driver's license, the gun card, the hunting licence. Can you imagine how much this group is being discriminated against because of these lapish, tasteless threats? And how many doctors of mental diseases understand it is also clear, because that is not a central point of their education. No one says anything about the ministry. No one says anything about the ÖVP. Psychiatrics are special cases. And when you consider that €250 million is spent on psychopharmaceuticals, you have to say that in this case investments in psychotherapy are certainly something extremely reasonable. This law has existed for 20 years. The checkouts would be obliged to equal this to a medical service, but not even a quarter of the need for psychotherapy will be met! Not even a quarter! I would also ask that a little more intense discussion be held with the countries on this matter. In the parliamentary question – which naturally is also about money – it turns out that the checkouts reject these therapies in children at 50 percent. Up to 50 percent! In part, it is said that the country is responsible because there is a rehabilitation law in the country. To what I have heard today, that there is no cure for children, if they are disabled, I must say, that is the most infidel joke of history! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is also no cure in the case of sugar disease unless they successfully receive a transplant of the pancreas and that goes well. Otherwise, sugar disease is a life-long sugar disease. And he who has had a heart attack will not be healed either. He's got the scar for a lifetime. What's the whole thing? If it's said that we're not responsible because no cure is possible, then it's bad, I'm just saying. How are parents doing? – They then travel from the Social Ministry to the Ministry of Health and try to do so at national level. A good example to conclude: Propofol – you have acted very well, Mr. Federal Minister. The AGES also gets more money. That's this anaesthetic that killed a child because of wrong use. And I'll tell you who as busy: The Federal Minister, also the AGES, is responsible for and for himself, but for hospitals the country. The country has an Anstaltsapothecary, a drug commission, a Council of State. And what happened? - Nothing! Health Councillor Tilg blames the university for failing university. The university is not responsible for medicines and their use. There's a medical department. And what does the Council of State Anity say? - I'll stop now. – The Council of State Anity notes that 48 hours is the maximum duration for a child to be sedated with this medicine. The joke comes only now – it's not a joke, it's a tragedy –: 48 hours is exactly the hour that this child was sedated in Innsbruck, and that is 20 times too long. So, please, get away from federalism and the countries! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31140	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31161	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Yes, I would like to highlight praise, 4 million € more for vaccinations are worthy of recognition. But you have also achieved this only under major difficulties and due to retransformations. All the more surprising is your setting of priorities. For example, 100 million € are available for the ELGA, but I will do this even more precisely. I mean, health policy is also a matter of priorities when we talk about debt brakes and little money. My priority as a doctor is clear: Where there are gaps, I would like to fill them. For example, a gap has become clear to me in Parliament yesterday. There were some stalls built up, including the children's hospice. What's the Mobile Children's Hospice? – There are severely ill children who need to be inhaled at home, or cancer-sick children who have a brain tumor are taken care of at home so that they do not have to be chronically in the hospital. This association is financed only by donations. There are about 600 care cases reported to the club by the hospitals. However, only four can currently be cared for. The club would do more, but will not get any money from the public. And that's where I have to say: Where are the priorities in this country when we loosen 100 million € in times like this for data highways, while for the children's hospice there are not even 100 000 € or 200 000 €. And then the heart gets stuck together, and I let go of it. You're not out of duty. Priorities must be set! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I saw the show “Club 2” yesterday. Mrs. Kdolsky said there – yes, she did, now she is an expert; I hope not, Minister, that you will once become an expert, I would like to have you longer – and that ELGA has been working on since 2005 what has set me in amazement. And then the discussion was about whether the data protection is guaranteed, yes or no. You can now argue for a long time about whether the Ministry of Health, if it writes a law, can better protect the data than the Pentagon or NATO. Da_te We will probably fight forever. I don't believe it, but I don't think that we're ever before slutting and other things, even before intentional spying through foreign intelligence services and so on. I'm really not sure if it's happening that we're putting politicians, journalists and celebrities at an increased risk. Perhaps it's small from your point of view, but I think it's terrifying when I listen to what these data professionals are telling me, what's possible today, only by foreign intelligence services or newspapers, how that's specifically controlled. Take “News of the World” by Rupert Murdoch. Targeted there were people ready. And I think you have to talk seriously about it, instead of saying that everything is safe and that's only the evil doctors who fear it. What I do not understand at all is, Mr Minister, that although you have had a year – you presented a draft in March, you have been negotiating with the SPÖ for months – you have not negotiated a single second with me. They have done it to make one even worse out of a bad design that has been torn from all sides. It's really a piece of art. And then you say in a background conversation, on the other hand, only a few doctors in Vienna, a disputing bunch, and also – and I thought that was very modest, I would not have trusted you – it's only about the double finding that the doctors are doing business. Then you told me you didn't say that. But it's still in the APA. So maybe you have the courage to tell the APA editor that he heard it wrong. Look, Mr Minister, at the ELGA, it is also a question of whether we need an eight-track data highway in times like this. And then we put out loud cops who have to catch it again. Or wouldn't it have failed to rethink the old Kdolsky concept by €100 million, which you'd like to impose on your leg hard? I don't think it costs 100 million euros. The city of Vienna has bought a program for the AKH, which still does not work after seven years. I talked to doctors from the Rudolfs Foundation two days ago, who said they're almost a hundred, if they only hear the word computer disease of the city of Vienna, because it's not usable because it takes so much time. And that's where you wanted to put the ELGA over it. So I think we're talking about a waste of resources. It is questionable where this should bring so much money, perhaps in the central area, but you have not set any euro in this milkmaid bill for what it costs the doctor, the hospital and working time. I'll finish. You can talk to me about everything, Mr Minister, but one thing I have to ask of you, I have been a long-time health speaker, but one is going off, setting priorities. When I hear, for child rehabilitation there is no money there when I hear, for prevention there is no money there, if I listen, for teaching practice – 10 million € – is no money there, for child psychiatrition is no money there, for the children's hospice is no money there, for the house doctor is no money there, I only refer to Vorarlberg and Salzburg, and if I hear now, 100 million € are in the minimum for the ELGA, then I have to say quite honestly, the heart gets stuck together. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Minister, as a doctor, I am always responsible for patients, not that you become my political patient. Please stop with this bridge rod! Many It is easy to go back once a step, to think and yet to search through the priority list.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31255	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31277	Mr President. Minister! High house! The health budget presented clearly shows that reforms are not envisaged. Mr Minister, I would like to take a brief look at your statement in the press hour. You said you have enforced the biggest health reform of all time, you have rehabilitated the health insurance funds. Mr. Minister, you've used 500 million euros of tax money for this up to now. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are not reforms, this is an increase in every taxpayer! Reforms look different for us. There is, for example, the combination of the 22 social security institutions we demand, or the financing from a single source or the hospital reform. For hospitals, €4 billion will be spent in the year. By reducing cots to the necessary number, €2.9 billion per year could be saved. What does Austria need 50 small hospitals with less than 200 beds, while there are no agricultural doctors and no more domestic doctors? It's a confusion you're doing, Minister. In the field of hospital reform, of course, you fail with the heads of state, who do not want to let themselves be taken up by occupying the posts with their clients. But let's come to the budget itself. More than €75 million are budgeted this year, of which €37 million is on the basis of the minimum guarantee, which is now €60 million. € 15 million more for the AGES, more than € 25 million under the Hospital and Spa Act, but no improvement for the contributors, Mr Minister. There you can only say, that's disgraceful! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Instead, you have managed to increase staff costs by 10 million since 2009. It's 1.5 million today. Now to the ELGA. Today, €2.5 million is budgeted for the ELGA. How much the ELGA has cost so far, that's not clear. There are so many different numbers colported, honest numbers are not heard from you. Mr Minister, there is no question: Double conductions, antagonisms of medications are to be prevented. But there are easier possibilities. Just one example: The e-card has so much space. Give each doctor, every doctor, every family doctor a reading and writing device. He writes his therapy and diagnosis on the e-card and gives it to the e-card owner. The next doctor moves the e-card into the device and has the data after entering the code. I don't need an inflated internet system that anyone can see at any time and where the data security is not given. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The AGES gets € 15 million more. The AGES is an important institution, not a question. There you failed again with the food security law you wanted to introduce to finance the AGES. – Rejected, we can't, we were against it, no question. But these are your ideas, your utopian ideas. Health care. Mr Minister, you said in committee that health care is the most important prevention for you. Benefits in kind were reduced by €1.5 million. You say you have introduced the vaccinations for children against meningococcal and pneumococcal. It's okay, a long-term demand from us. Only this does not pay the Ministry of Health, but it pays the funds of pharmaceutical companies, which is distributed out of the main association. [[Federal Minister Stäger: Since when?]] - We'll talk about it afterwards. Your entire prevention looks like this: Food security plan, brochures, from the dog to the healthy diet, otherwise nothing at all! The health strategy. Mr. Minister, I was at the panel discussion. It has been found that for all the points mentioned in the health strategy, there is no money: no money for the school doctor, no money for psychological care, no money for the removal of self retention. Minimum insurance providers do not have to pay any contribution, nor do they have to pay any amount of restraint. All right, that's what it's supposed to be. But then a single earner, who has a child and has to live of 800 €, is not supposed to pay for self retention! That would have to be possible. This disparity must finally end! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Minister, it's a shame, it's really a shame that there is enough money for ensuring the future of Austria, for the health of our children, but for securing the future of Greece. And that's where we say: It's enough paid for Greece! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Minister, at the end of the day: They will go into history as ministers of announcement, and in no way as ministers of reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31343	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31365	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With the 2012 health budget, we can set real milestones in health policy, milestones that no one has imitated us all over Europe, because we in Austria have managed to increase health performance even in the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I ask you: Which country in Europe did this in the crisis? I am telling you today, the numbers of the local health telephone, the social security, the health insurance system are on 15. ==References== It has again become clear that ensuring the financing of the local health telephone is the instrument by which we manage to ensure that people do not need to be afraid in the future and that in Austria all people have access to the highest health care. In this budget, I have ensured that we can make strategic investments that we are now strategic about projects. It is a question of how we, all areas in common, can define health objectives and then consistently shape policies accordingly. I have started the child health dialogue and I have already implemented first steps in this budget. In this budget, you will find that the additional vaccinations against pneumococcal and meningococcal have been implemented. I have already taken the first steps in discussions with the local health phone, with the countries, including in the field of the care of children in psychotherapy, in the youth psychiatric system. Lower Austria, Upper Austria, Vienna have significantly expanded its quotas. This is health policy, which is sustainable, which is health policy, which is the case with children and young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is also about food safety. Yes, you're right, it's quite, very important to me, and I'm about to change the nutrition situation. And we do not need thick papers, but we need clear help, even in schools. And I will also implement that in 2012, together with the Ministry of Education, together with the countries. Many national school councils are happy that we want to go to schools and improve the nutrition situation there. I also allow myself to point out that we are starting with this budget to become more sustainable in the health field. I would remind you that on Tuesday in the Federal Government I made a very significant change in the health care system, and that Parliamentary treatment has already been given to it, which is to discuss quality in hospitals and to improve the health system in hospitals. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few more things about current issues. This concerns the Electronic Health Act. She's in discussion. Today it has also been mentioned: Many people don't even know what medication they get, and can't even tell the doctor in a quality form. Many people do not know or can not tell their doctor what has already been diagnosed and recommended in the hospital. The doctors have a right to continue on the basis of good information, and we also need to ensure this quality. With the new discussion on the electronic health acts, it will be successful to use modern tools for the information of doctors. Allow me to add this: With this we can increase the quality of medical care in Austria quite massively! We're going to have fewer diseases because of mismedication. There will be fewer job losses because one can no longer be sent from one doctor to another for the second, third and fourth same results. We will also have fewer hospital stays because they will no longer be necessary. I said very clearly that data protection is very, very important to me personally. Data protection means the following. First: The data remain with the doctor and hospital. Secondly, Only secure networks are used. Thirdly, For the first time, all people have insight into their own health records; many do not know what is stored in the hospital about them. Fourth: All people can check who has accessed their data, and can see it for themselves, get a protocol. Fifth, you open a bottle Participation is voluntary for patients, everyone can opt out of it. I think that's where the highest data protection has been used. Allow me also to respond to a few requests from Members. First: I wonder where the numbers of hundreds of millions appear. I say quite clearly, the electronic health act will cause us €18 million in costs in the year, but will also bring €129 million to savings in full operation. I say quite clearly to Mrs Belakovich: You're right. We'll need more information. But one thing we won't do: We will not return to the start, nor will we return to the Stone Age! We will have a modern health system in Austria where doctors, health care providers, can be properly informed and the patient and the patient can handle their data. That is solidarity policy, i.e. health policy, which looks forward to using the instruments, and in this sense this budget has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31459	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31480	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In July of this year, the Austrian Parliament adopted a very important request, which was drawn up in Parliament, namely the reorganisation of controls along the food chain. It is a question of bringing about changes in competence. It is about avoiding branches and finally addressing the question of competence federal or country. I think it is necessary for us to have a principle discussion here. If we succeed in reorganising controls – from soil to feed and plant protection products to food – this is, in my opinion, a concrete contribution to administrative reform. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Clear words to ELGA, on the question: What about the data protection at ELGA? – I turn the question around: What is the current data protection about health data? Unfortunately, Mr Belakovich is not here; I think at this point that she does not in any way take care of health data, that she is hiding behind the law of interoperability, and that health data relating to the ill-favored former Minister of the Interior Lese Prokop is broad in a parliamentary request. High House, you can't accept that this is the way people deal with health data! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] I therefore believe that we must also turn to the question in the House of Lords: How strong is data protection in the law of interconnection, in parliamentarianism? Mr Rasinger, there is no de facto data protection in the paper at all. We can use the Electronic Health Act – and the Federal Minister has already done so – to make very clear rules on who can access data stored in a decentralised way. We can regulate how protocols look and people themselves know who has accessed this data. [[Abg. Strache: You can't believe that yourself!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand the excitement of the doctors either, I say that with all the clarity. There was an article in the “standard” that spoke of machine towers in white Kittels. I partly share this view, because I do not understand how one can still claim that health data is centrally stored at ELGA. However, I do not understand other doctors, such as those in Lower Austria who decided yesterday to turn against ELGA. High House, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, just in There are already ELGA! I quote Sobotka, who made a statement in an issue this year: ‘Electronic health records shall be used in all hospitals.’ [[The speaker speaks in the direction of Federal Minister Stöger.]] [[Abg. New builder: In the micro!]] I have not heard any criticism – from no one here in this House – that if health data are processed and transmitted electronically within a legal entity, this is bad and data protection is at risk. [[Abg. Strache: It only goes with a central storage! That's the only way to have this insight!]] Here some private companies do big business. We have one among us, a representative of the Freedom Party, who acts as a lobbyist for a German company: It's Deputies Strutz. “Kronen Zeitung” in Carinthia: “Strutz intervenes for Germans and insults Kärntner Hospitals”. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Be careful!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Strache! VEPRO is the name of the company for which Mr. Strutz is a lobbyist and even speaks in the Federal Ministry. [[New call at the SPÖ.]] Col. Strutz, never take the words “Data Protection” and “Lobbyism” into your mouth again! I'm looking forward to the lobbyist register, because you'll have to show up in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31590	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31611	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Milestones in health, health goals are redefined – Minister, “the target taxation model does not make sense for health reform, as the proposals of the Health Reference Conference have not been taken into account”, “the role of the Federal Government is completely unclear”, “the formulated objectives go far beyond the responsibilities of social security”, “the proposal presented by the Federal Minister Stöger was so incomplete and incomplete that even the SPÖ-led countries did not carry the paper,” says Sobotka, in an opinion on your announcements. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A partial success has been achieved for the children's vaccination program, and you have to acknowledge this positively. However – even a short replica –: 4 million have been approved, 3 million are missing according to our bills. We've already discussed this. You think that's not the case; we think that's a serious bill that's true. The transparent waiting list, Mrs Oberhauser, is also a small success in Vienna. However, this will not stop two-class medicine in any way, because the positive effect is brought to nothing by the fact that in the hospitals in Vienna, because of massive savings, class struggles of social-democratic workers are taking place. That's what you have to say. In the hospitals of the city of Vienna a real fight was triggered, which led to a success of the workforce. This must also be recognized positively: You've seen that it doesn't work to save in this way. In the general hospital – for which none of the men and women ministers feel responsible – this fight is coming to an end; we will see how it goes out. We can only hope that the development will also go in a positive direction here. Saving must be obvious in times like this. But in my opinion, false savings pose a threat to quality in health, and false savings lead to social downturns. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to give you a case, a particularly dramatic case. After a medical art defect, a lady you all know – a wheelchair driver who was also present here in Parliament, a young mother – sits in the wheelchair and needs painkillers in high dosage. The four-year trial marathon in this respect ends with a comparison in which, I must acknowledge, Mrs Oberhauser contributed positively. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Spindelberger.]] For years now, she has been on a well-tolerated painkiller called oxytocin. However, this drug was used with 1. It was removed from the refund code in October 2011. Therefore, a request for authorisation was made; here, on the one hand, the poor tolerability of the replacement medications and on the other hand, the entire medical history was mentioned. The application was rejected. Following a telephone call from the competent body of the Lower Austrian Regional Hospital, the claim was also made that the drug will no longer be produced and therefore no longer available. With this circumstance, the patient has to find out, according to the information. – However, according to the manufacturer company, this is in no way true! The question raised here, Mr Federal Minister, is: Is the cost pressure on the cash registers so high that this patient is denied her usual and well-tolerable medication? Are the approximately €80 per pack – which she needs in the week, and that paid her herself – more important than the quality of life of the patient? And has it become necessary to push patients with false claims about availability to cheap medications? – I mean, here is a classic example of what it means to save in the wrong place. One last word to ELGA: We have heard a lot about ELGA. Why we are doctors so against ELGA is that there is first of all an opt-out solution and this opt-out solution in the last consequence means that the doctor would in no way have the data he needs in order to be able to work in accordance with law. That is, it hardly changes anything compared to the present state de facto. As a doctor, I only have to do the double job by questioning the patient again, of course, because I cannot rely on the fact that what is being provided to me here is also 100% reliable. - That's the first point. The second point is the miserable data protection. It has become truth in recent times the worst fears in terms of data protection. Let's just think about the Tyrolean local health insurance fund: There are – even legally, one could almost say – 600,000 data from the local health insurance fund. [[Abg. Strache: The GIS data has also been hacked! Police data, too!]] These have actually been just and simply taken away here. I have already asked you, Minister, what the supervisory duty is, because there has to be a decision within the bodies of the regional health fund. There is always someone from the ministry at these important meetings. Does that mean he slept? Maybe he wasn't present? Did he not know, or did he not recognize the dimension? The second problem in data protection is, as has been said correctly – we have had this federal trojan in Germany, we know what everything is possible –: Where data is used and collected, they are also stolen! That's a fact. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the end – I didn't really want to do that – I would like to say the following. If you would like to present to our colleagues lobbying allegations and the like, I would like to ask you one question. We have put a question to you, Mr Minister, and I will now also show you this posing on the day of oral health with the company Colgate in front of St. Stephen's Cathedral. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] Yes, oral health is good, and the ministry should also work for it. But there's an over-company association, and you should have stood there, not with the company Colgate! I am excited how the questions that have been asked are answered. In any case, it was at least very unskillable to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31699	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31720	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Citizens on TV screens! Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, has a comprehensive section to deal with. It is not only about health, it is also about the Food Safety Agency. I read here that the funds have been increased by 54 percent, and I hope that this increase in resources will really be used for this area and not perhaps for any other structural measures. Furthermore, the Minister has no easy task to do with the veterinary sector and, of course, with the protection of animals. Here I notice that the funds are going back. I do not assume, Minister, that you pay less attention to animal welfare. You know, I know we know a number of questions are coming up, and we are expecting constructive negotiations and useful results in the next few weeks. Let's not forget. Animal welfare is a major concern for all of us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we have to adapt to European standards. We cannot do something in Austria constantly, pretending something, while Europe as a whole does something different. We have to focus here on the findings and developments of European legal standards. I come to the essential tasks. Much has already been said about health policy. We have a huge dynamic here, that is not a question, and we also have high demands. It is right for the Minister to say that he has rehabilitated the local health phone. That's true, we have a positive gesture. But a lot of money was spent on this. I think Mr. Federal Minister – I never have that Miss, I would just like to say it in addition – the local responsibility is not only with the local health phone, but is basically with social security schemes, with all of them! There are, of course, a number of culprits – you know, I am saving myself mentioning them here – which we must also solve and resolve, which have not been initiated by the carrier, but which have just been made on the basis of decisions. Nor do I think of the multiple mentions of the merger of all social security funds. It can be quiet, no problem. But to mention the number of 2.9 billion, that's, please, already a little lightly ready. I would strongly disapprove of such recommendations. So where are the big goals? – Best possible medical care, comprehensive, without the person’s reputation. Mr Minister, we are, of course, slowly seeing a bigger problem in rural areas, namely that doctors are ever less willing to go there than agricultural doctors. The whole topic of the house pharmacies is also included. I know you can't do anything for it, but the discussion is there. I think we have to get involved in clarification here too, otherwise we will not be able to fulfil the expectations in the long run. I very much appreciate that you have managed to bring in a hospital law. Yes, I am also in favour of us starting to introduce in this important area a federal consideration and coordination – and if you want to, also control. It makes no sense for a country like Austria – sweet, beautiful, but manageable – to end up with infinitely many systems. We have the duty here to do something together, and I can assure you that we will support you to the greatest extent, because it makes sense to go a new way. We also have a problem in the health field with high drug consumption. All who deal with this issue know that about a third of the drugs – as the statistics say – are not consumed. That's worrying. That is why I do not believe that it makes sense to change REGO; REGO is the maximum recipe fee. I believe that with 2% of net income, we have a suitable solution. I almost don't know any citizens who want more. Nor do I realize that we are now suddenly beginning to develop new types of calculation and new designs, which in reality have a high administrative burden, but perhaps only a minimal need cover. We should keep ourselves from that, and I think that is essential. I have one last thing that also touches me – but this is about the whole Republic –: weekend service and medical care on holidays. We have a problem here! We no longer have sufficient medical care in far-reaching areas, and the citizens have to go to the hospitals' hospitals because of lack of alternatives or other possibilities. We need to see how these structures work in the future, because the citizen has a right to that, if he has his or her illness or his illness perceptions, this is also perceived in a timely manner, that he does not have too long waiting periods and that he is really well cared for, treated and cared for accordingly. Mr. Federal Minister, these are many tasks. We will try to finish all of this in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31796	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31817	Ladies and gentlemen! Values Members of the Federal Government! It has already been said a lot what I can only support, Minister of State. I also miss not only what you represent in the budget, but also what you say, a set of priorities. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] My colleague Green Forest has already made it very clear to the public that, for example, in the field of the care of children, children's health, but also in the field of the care of the mentally ill, there is a lot in the arrogance. If you only use the statistical material, which is partially available via the cash registers, then we first note that the number of mental diseases is clearly increasing, that they are now also a major factor for disability pensions, but that they are also a major factor for medication or the cost of medication. However, I would not only like to discuss after-care systems or their costs, but I would finally like to put in place preventive programmes, because of which not only in the establishments, but above all there, the mental diseases are addressed. I only call it Burnout, where the rate goes up, of course, because of the higher sensitivity. I would like to see a combination of all the institutions involved, the pension insurance scheme on your accident insurance, that is, the accident insurance for which you are responsible, the health insurance system, finally set up a joint programme, so that it does not happen, which Mr Groenewald has already pointed out, namely that one adds to the black Peter and thus the costs. And I haven't heard anything. Now I come to the second point, which, of course, is not irrelevant when it comes to lack of priorities. There is an indirect priority, which has already been mentioned, which is the cost of the electronic health acts. I do not stand out here to stand for the doctors or against the doctors, but I do not stand out for a group or several corporations that would like to get the hit of “Electronic Health Act” because it also brings a lot of money to their position. But it is a fact that there are these different interests. Another fact, Mr Federal Minister, is that not, as you say, ELGA is in discussion. It would be nice if we were to discuss ELGA. ELGA was started in principle by the Federal Minister for Smoking in 2002/2003 and has since been in implementation and implementation, which is not in discussion. I'll throw that in front of you, too. It's not like you're presenting a draft in spring, then somehow change this design and say he's gotten much better now, but don't talk to anyone about it. Where are we? Where are we? They want to implement a project, a project in which everyone who deals with it can recognize good but also negative things. Now I'm telling you the negative. There are alliances for health or health records between hospitals at national, municipal and other levels. There are. You must explain, and everyone who wants to carry out the project, how these already existing alliances are either integrated into the ELGA system or left aside, or whether double-tracks are conducted. I would like to know at the beginning how to handle interfaces creates where existing systems can be integrated and thus reduce costs, or where someone goes and says that everything is only done if we re-establish everything with an electronic health act that is the same for everyone. This needs to be answered, and it must be answered at the beginning and not when the system is developed so far that it can be set up. This is an important point, I think, Mr Federal Minister, and I would like clear answers. If you say now – and you said that today – that ELGA can even save disease, it will put all the hair on me. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] This is really an allegation that can't be proved by anything. Now I have looked at this draft, which I have not received from you. Mr Federal Minister, I say it again, I find this inappropriate. We discuss ELGA, but we do not get the draft from the Ministry. We'll talk about it. You say yes, the draft is in discussion. Tastes! Smart! It's not in discussion, it's in execution. I would also like to know how many costs have already been incurred. But let's discuss what you said: ELGA can save costs. I read in this new draft, in 2017 – where you say that is the full year of operation; we have decided not yet, to this day, at all, but in 2017 is the full year of operation – the cost is € 17.2 million and the cost-damaging effects € 129.8 million. How do you get to the cost-absorbing effects? Honestly, everything I'm going to list to you – I can't argue it in detail – is a wishful concert or the desire for the Christian child. More complete medication data, more complete findings, more complete findings, multiple medications are avoided, more reliable medication information, job failures are avoided. All this then creates a cost-saving of thumbs times pi € 130 million, and then you say ELGA has expected. No, excuse me, Minister of State, if not with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31893	Before I ask the next speaker to speak, I should like to follow up on yesterday's meeting day – after a thorough study of the Stenographical Protocol, in particular the speech by Mr Petzner and, subsequently, also his interlocutory calls during the speech by Mrs. Volksanwältin Dr. Gertrude Brinek – that Mr Petzner has indeed said several times that Mrs. Volksanstalt Stoisit's use of office in the public prosecutor's office. For example, in the stenographic protocol of the speech by Mrs Volksanwältin Brinek in an interlocutory call in which honourable Member Petzner referred: “The Ms. Stoisits is in the public prosecutor’s office!” And then again: “To Mrs Stoisits maybe something else, to her abuse of office!” Mr Petzner – the meeting was interrupted yesterday – a question to you: Are you willing to take back the accusation of this criminal offence? [[Abg. Petzner: (Keeping) No! That's proveable!]] Then I'll notice you're holding on to this allegation. I therefore give you an order for the multiple suspicions of the abuse of office or for the claim of the abuse of office in the direction of Mrs. Volksanwälter Terezija Stoisits. [[Abg. Riepl: He needs two calls! He said it twice!]] Mr Oellinger spoke on business. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31959	Mr President. You have raised an important issue. I would like to see the following circumstances dealt with in the presidency. You have given the Member Pilz a call for order because, as you said in your statement, he claimed that there was an instruction. If you study the stenographic protocol of this session, you will find that it was not the Member Pilz who spoke of an instruction, but of an order that has been given in relation to right-wing extremism, but not of a direction. They have derived the accusation of the abuse of office from the circumstances of an order and have therefore given the Member of the European Parliament a call for order. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to discuss this issue or the signature in the Stenographical Protocol also in the next presidency. However, I would also like to inform you that there has been a speech on the part of Mr Kickl on today's part-session, which I will now quote in the text, according to the provisional Stenographic Protocol, and I would ask you, in the President, to deal with this motion accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e31990	Mr Oellinger, you know that this has already been a subject on several occasions, including in discussions between the political groups. All these stenographic protocols will be considered and will be the subject of the next presidency. Madam President, this has already been said. Semantics, whether commissioned or instructed, are ultimately to be seen in the overall context – that is my personal opinion – and in the end it remains left to the respective president, as he appreciates. I'm trying not to read stenographic protocols here. This is not a Rules of Procedure. The protocols can be read by anyone on the Internet. We have promised that this will be dealt with in the presidency. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] [[Abg. Oils: You don't even know the accusation!]] Mr Kickl's speech will also be included in the presidential debate. [[Abg. Oils: But you don't know the accusation!]] Mr Oellinger, I do not want to discuss a speech with you now, but I would like to ensure that the progress of this meeting is carried out accordingly. [[Abg. Oillinger: And I want a proper negotiation!]] We continue in the speaker list. I speak as next speaker, Mrs Csörgits. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32064	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to address a subject which we have discussed several times today, namely the situation surrounding the people involved in the need-orientated minimum security, and I should like to say that it is really very welcome that we are currently 33 000 people who were recipients of social assistance and had to present this really very discriminatory social assistance card, have now brought into the happy situation that they have their own e-card and thus also have the same legal claim as all other e-card owners. I think that it is a good, more important step to give very needy people in our country not only the necessary support, but also discriminatory things that have existed so far. Thank you very much also for this measure and for your support in this context, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second point I would like to address is the situation regarding the financing of health insurance schemes in Austria. I should like to say in advance that we have succeeded in maintaining our good, yes, excellent health system, although it has also succeeded in reaching the cost reduction targets for this year in the local health phone, which is more than € 200 million. This has been achieved without even a single performance being restricted. For this, I believe, thanks not only to our Minister of Health, but also to colleagues in self-administration, and to my very special thanks and, as I believe, to the many, many thousands of employees in the field of health insurance, but also in the area of social security, who are very much contributing to the fact that this beautiful country of Austria is caring for and raising citizens with such good social benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32103	The next speaker is Mr Deputies List. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32125	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Minister of Health! High house! Mr Stöger, you are totally unsuspecting. They have no knowledge of the acute health problems. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] They prefer to resist in small things, which proves their weak appearance in the “press hour”. Therefore, a current diagnosis of the dramatic situation in the local hospitals. This is based on many negative experiences that we have had in recent months together with the citizens. The basic supply is under massive threat under a Federal Minister Stöger. You don't know the seriousness of the situation, Mr. Federal Minister! The conditions in the local hospitals are continually publicly denounced by leading physicians. The clinics are already standing with the back to the wall. The Doctors also complain that they must carry out ever more complex treatments with less and less money. At the same time, the superfluous bureaucracy eats the time of doctors who should invest in treatments. Patients are increasing because patients no longer receive the necessary interpersonal use from the doctor. Today, it is almost impossible to inform all patients of all the risks of surgery in accordance with the law. The doctors don't have the time for it anymore. A station doctor spends half of the day with administrative activities. For example, type 16 doctors each year at an internal department of a national hospital in Styria. 16 doctors 12,000 doctors each year – that’s huge! The entire legal protection documentation burden is no longer manageable with the current staff status. There is scientific theoretic insanity. There is also no adequate personnel planning in the hospitals. There is often no planning to meet the needs of the patient and doctor. The consequences of permanent overload are dramatic for doctors and their patients. More and more physicians suffer from burnout syndrome. The quality of treatments is constantly falling. The training and further training of the young doctors is limited. This is a fatal development for future medical care, which we reject. Because of this catastrophic finding, ladies and gentlemen, also medically overburdened doctors have emitted the long-needed cry for help. The health system in Austria is ill! As Minister of Health, you are of course responsible for all current maladministrations in the hospital area. The fact that it burns enormously shows the current reporting of the last days to the General Hospital in Vienna. Here you can't press ahead with the responsibility, even though you say it will be Federal Minister's responsibility daughter. But there's enough trouble there. You also know the statements about it. It is a scandal that health is no longer worth the politicians and that it saves them with us, with people! - Such a patient who is looking for help in the hospital. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In our health care there is an acute need for action. We from the BZÖ under the direction of the health speaker Wolfgang Spadiut have already explained the relevant concepts for renovation. There must be a comprehensive structural and administrative reform in Austrian health care. It is necessary to save in the system and not in the patient. We call for the merger of the 22 social security institutions. According to the Court of Auditors, the possible savings of around €2.9 billion is good money for the care of patients, good money for the best care with the best medicine. Nevertheless, Federal Minister Stöger – and this as the former head of a regional health fund – continues to block any major health reform. They protect the privileges in the Marod cash registers. They're trying to clean it up with taxpayers' money. This is a completely false health policy that you pursue. It is rejected by us. We say: Enough paid from the tax money for stopping holes in the deficient health insurance funds! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Federal Minister Stöger, finish your board of directors of the Vielkassen Österreichs! As the manager of the multi-banks, you've been serving for a long time! Set this Old BZÖ request! It is only with this that Austrian health care can be rehabilitated in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32219	As the next speaker, Mrs Deputies has come to the fore. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32281	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The debt brake, which represents the unfortunately necessary answer to the financial situation of the Republic, naturally raises the question in all the departments: How do we save one or how do we distribute the funds? In the field of health – this is an area that is particularly sensitive – it concerns everyone and everyone – special care is therefore required. On the one hand, low level of access and high quality must be maintained, on the other hand, the whole sector needs to be checked for savings. Therefore, there will be or need to be changed. In addition, we have some issues in the government programme that are waiting for implementation. One of the major areas that will benefit the individual in the long term as well as save costs in the system is the area of prevention and health care which has often been addressed. And that is why it should be particularly useful for children and young people. Within the framework of the National Health Goals for Child and Youth Health, among other things, the focus is on movement and mental health and a Healthy School strategy. Federal Minister! We have already discussed the issue in the Committee very, very often, and we all know that we have potential up in the field of prevention in European comparison. That means, my appeal to you: Next year, let's put an NAP movement in such a way that it's really good for people outside and is also in the Healthy School strategy. They would have our full support. A also massively neglected area – I have to say this as a child therapist – is the child rehabilitation. There is simply a lack of specialised facilities that provide sufficient support for families in most very, very stressful situations. The families with affected children are relying on your ability to implement, Minister. Another area that appears as a goal in the government programme – and I think I address it very often anyway – is registration. The over-company representation is intended to carry out these activities for health professionals. MTD-Austria has already done preliminary work and founded a MTD-Register GmbH two years ago, and more than half of all professionals have already been registered voluntarily. It was therefore pre-worked to help the Republic save money and also to clarify the availability of MTD professionals. Since training opportunities are also linked to this, we would ask you, Mr Minister, to quickly implement registration in the sense of better planning and quality assurance. When people – and now I come to a field that is practically connected to your thematically strong – are addressed to the health system, most of them automatically think about the hospital area. There are very few areas that are so emotionally occupied as, for example, the question: Is my hospital around the corner the same as I always know? And if it already needs to be restructured, hopefully so that I don't notice it as a patient in. Reforms are necessary. The fact that these can also succeed shows our common homeland Oberösterreich. There, too, other federal states can cut off a slice of it. The highest priority in the reform, which the Landtag decided unanimously, was not to reduce staff and maintain high quality. With intelligent focus, it will be possible to keep cost increases – and only those will – within a reasonable framework and save €2.3 billion over the next ten years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So much on the subject that the countries are always reform-preventors. One last point that is still important to me, which unfortunately becomes more and more important in Austria, is mental illness and the treatment of the same. I'm just referring to the development of invalidity pensions. In this context, it is particularly important to ensure that treatment for health certificate is sufficiently available. We have decided in the National Council that the treatment by clinical psychologists in the ASVG should be taken over by the health insurance companies. Federal Minister! At this point too, you can be sure of our support when you are actively addressing this. In summary, you can say: Be healthy and stay healthy – and I am quite contrary to some previous speakers – is well supported in Austria. But there are some gaps. Let's fill these gaps in the system! We will support you in this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32348	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Strutz. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32369	Mr President. Minister of Health! Mr Maier, I have considered whether I should address your accusation, which you have formulated in order to protect immunity: Lobbyist. I won't do it. I just want to warn you, and I think you should be very careful with the accusation lobbyism. What I'm thinking of questioning is your role in the Causa ELGA. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You are the chairman of the Data Protection Commission, which has made a massively negative opinion on the ELGA project, come out here, make the wall to the Federal Minister and simply say things that are wrong. [[Abg. Street: For whom does he work lobbyism? Certainly not for data security!]] They praise ELGA and say: Honourable Members! – Mr Maier, you will not be nervous. – They come out and say: A great project. At any time, the Austrians can see who has accessed their data. This is the untruth! At the ELGA Committee meeting, Mr We know that Auer – who is Mr Auer – is the head of the section of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs and Security, Mr Maier. And let's say: Auer agrees to delete the term “anytime” from the respective lawmaking bodies. That means that what you said at the speaker's desk here is the untruth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the same way, an untruth is what Federal Minister Stöger said on the last “Hohes Haus” mission: This ELGA will cost € 30 million and no more! – Mr Federal Minister, you have asked how we have the figures of €100 million and more. I tell you who we have these: from your section head Auer, from your ELGA GmbH, from your ministry! I'm reading the 4th protocol to you now. Session – and I am happy to present it to you. Do you know what's in there? – €34 million additional budget for ELGA GmbH; joint financing ministry, countries, insurance. € 53.5 million Costs for the establishment of the ELGA areas, financing by the countries. Ladies and gentlemen, speak with your financial representatives, with your national leaders, how they want to finance these €53 million, especially for something that is not available to this day! 17.2 million € additional construction costs, financing by the federal government. 13.7 million € Implementation of the operation of the E-Medication project, which has been discontinued for lack of results. Cost of € 130 million – presented by your section head Auer, by your ELGA GmbH in the governing body. They deceive the Austrians just to carry out your prestige project. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: All of this should have remained top secret!]] And I am speaking to every Member, including the Social Democrats – and I hope the EIA has a clear line on this question – personally: Do you really want your health data on the network to be publicly accessible to a hundred professional groups – so it is in the law? When Mr. Maier says: The great thing is, they're not centrally stored, but they're located regionally in the individual hospitals and they're going to be safe there, so to speak!, then I'm just saying: Let's look at Tyrol, there we see how fast the health data can be accessed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I really recommend: Look Please refer to the Court of Auditors' opinion on this law! Do you know what the Court of Auditors is saying? – Costs, benefits are not recognizable. It cannot be deduced from an overall concept. It is not recognizable which data should be stored and used for the specific purpose. The above objective cannot be achieved. The financial impact on the cost side does not reflect the benefits. It is not clear for which purposes the financial resources are to be used for ELGA GmbH. It's et cetera, et cetera. The state of Salzburg – ladies and gentlemen from Salzburg, please watch out! – has stated in its opinion: We call into question the sensibleness and the benefits of a system to be implemented with a high financial effort. The Ministry of Finance, honourable Members, sees in its opinion – the opinions you all have on the Internet, you can read them – the benefits at least very much limited. We don't even want to talk about the doctor's chamber. I would also like to say something quite firmly: Federal Minister! Do you really understand my speech as a warning to this ELGA project? This is the largest financial, the largest organisational, but also, I say, consciously from this speaker's mouth, the largest political scandal taking place in the field of the Ministry of Health. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not about the more than one hundred million euros you have burned so far. They promised in the government statement in 2008 and all of this will be implemented in 2009. You know that the legal basis for the implementation of ELGA is not majority to this day; all political groups, with the exception of the Social Democrats, are decided against it. They are the most important institutions in Austria, but still try to do so. You here a policy with your head through the wall. I would like to ask you why you are so massively committed to this project. Does it have to do with the fact that Siemens intervened in your ministry? Does it have to do with the fact that Siemens is a sponsor and financier of the ELGA user meetings? Does it have to do with it? – Now social democracy becomes a bit nervous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – Does this have to do with the fact that the main association, Mrs Colleague, has been sentenced by an Austrian court for failing to comply with the award rules? The main association has been sentenced, has had to pay a penalty, this with the funds of all insured, because it has not made a tender. And your staff in the ministries are sitting together again and considering how to deal with the call. [[Abg. Strache: Which lobbying interests are there?]] 4. Meeting of the ELGA Commission, led by colleagues Auer – yes, Mr Maier really moved me – says inside: [[Intervocational calls]] We are now making a bidder search, July to August, and then we are negotiating, September to December. And then Mr. Eisl adds: We should also explore with the Bundesbebeschaffing GmbH whether it is possible to terminate and suspend the procedure after the bidder search depending on the adoption of the ELGA law. That is to say, it is written out that the companies applying are planted, while they knew three months ago that they simply want to terminate these procedures after the law has been passed, because they already know who will actually get this order. [[Abg. That's where an investigation committee needs it!]] I repeat: Federal Minister, I warn you! Look Do you really agree with these protocols? Talk to the people sitting in the control bodies about whether this project would not be easy to end! And I really call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to read the law carefully, to read the opinions carefully, because you are personally concerned. Your health data are on the test stage in this law decision. [[Abg. Strache: We read them in the paper when it's ready!]] And I appeal to the ÖVP to remain hard on this question. We have understood very well why the health spokesperson of ÖVP Rasinger, who has always taken a clear line so far, has suddenly been withdrawn from the negotiations and replaced by Mr Mitterlehner, the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is coming from the Chamber of Commerce. That too has a good reason. That too is documented. We will still have much to discuss about this ELGA project in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32519	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32546	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor, Mr Strutz, claimed that I was chairman of the Data Protection Commission. - That's not right! I'm correcting: I am chairman of the Data Protection Council – with completely different tasks from the Data Protection Commission. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: They don't know each other!]] Further: My previous speaker, Member Strutz, claimed that I had claimed under the cover of immunity that he was a lobbyist.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32578	Mr Maier, with permission: This is not a matter which can actually be corrected. In fact, we should make two corrections in each speech. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He should take part in a meeting of the Rules of Procedure so that he can learn!]] This is a political evaluation, and it is not really correct. Mr Spindelberger came next to me. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32610	I think there are other seminars inside here, Mr Westenthaler. I do not even wonder why such a storm is going on now when the discussion about ELGA is being held here in the House, as Mr Donabauer has already said, it is about whether double, triple investigations are being carried out and where the funds in the health system are going, because these are billions. It is obvious that the doctors and, above all, the pharmaceutical industry have the greatest interest in putting it all under the table and maintaining it as it has been. We should all try together to make the best possible use of health care funds in the future – also due to the strained financial situation. Mr Scheibner, who is unfortunately not in the room now, evocated yesterday that there are differences of opinion between ÖVP and SPÖ. – There are clear differences of opinion where we should put the lever on the debt brake. This is nothing bad, if we also show the Austrians how different they are through the television broadcasts. One of them says: We can no longer afford the full-casket state, we have to tighten the belt, we have lived over our conditions and save out of expenditure without exception. Or the access from us from the SPÖ. We say that we will have to use and decide on the debt brakes in the future, similar to in the past budgets and expenditures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where we are certainly not going to go along with it is in terms of words made by my colleague Peter Haubner yesterday: Just renew instead of tax! And in the same breath, he says: We have to save the health system, the pension system, but we are protecting ourselves from our service providers – whoever these benefits may be. In this context, I say quite clearly: The workers, the workers, the sick people in our country have not caused the crisis, and therefore we will not tolerate that these people now again the second, third or even even the come to the handcushion fourth time. Rather, we need to think about how we can finance our excellent social and health system in the future, through structural reforms, but also through other sources of revenue. We must also remind people that, especially in the years 2008 to 2010, i.e. during the financial crisis, at a time when many, many people have lost their job, the number of millionaires in Austria has exploded from 62,000 to 74 000, who have made a lot of cash in spite of the crisis on the stock exchanges. If you say, These are our service providers and they must not be taxed! Then I personally find that there is a lack of understanding, even if some are still standing in front of the top managers, who have made fat spoils in the crisis and have been able to pay $4.1 billion in dividends despite huge declines in profit in 2009 – this must be done on the tongue. And you want to protect it now?- Oh, my God! That is irresponsible policy for me! In this context: If all the experts assume that only 1.3 percent of the total tax revenue is capital-related taxes and in the OECD the average is 5.4 percent, then finally here in the House once again, when it comes to fiscal consolidation, all know where the lever would be going: [[Call for the call.]] With an OECD average of 5.4 percent tax on assets, we would have €4 billion in additional revenue that we could continue to finance our good welfare and social state.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32707	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32728	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr. Health Minister! As we have now heard from many previous speakers, including our health spokesperson, not only is ELGA expensive, not only is concerned with data protection, but is also of great political brilliance. I think there's still a lot to be revealed here. The only thing you have here, Mr. Federal Minister, is a strategy that is otherwise lacking in the health budget: The strategy with the head through the wall, cost it what it wants, ELGA must come. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The health budget is a budget managed by you, but not designed, let alone reformed. As I said in the committee, I have looked at the 2008 Government Declaration to see what we want to do in health care. There you have announced a great deal of further development of the health system, namely increasing efficiency through joint strategy planning and health care management. An important, great task! What's left of it? – You have given the main association an order for a Master Plan Health, have sold the great one, and since then there is silence. You don't hear anything. It is alleged that the countries are negotiating in the direction of an Article-15a agreement on a uniform health insurance right. That's it! We still have – and my previous speakers have said this several times – 22 different insurance companies, and this savings potential is not even touched on, not even to be discussed. If there were to be put together, you could save a lot of administration, but this would of course also mean a lot of loss of power for red and black in the face of all these colored directors and administrative devices. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you, Federal Minister Stöger, always say that you are a fighter against the two-class medicine, then you should actually start there, because if you finally unify the social security systems and implement them in all nine federal states, that there is an equal range of services for the insured people everywhere, that same performance fees are paid to the treating doctors and also to the other health care providers, and if there are economical administrative structures, then this would be a start in the fight against the two-class medicine, but you do not take this into account. [[Abg. List: Don't even listen!]] [[BZÖ and Abg. Donabauer.]] Or the health insurance fund structure fund financing: Everything good and nice, but that reminds me a little bit of the care fund. Tax money will be shot in by 2013, and from 2013 on, you don't know how it continues. Then the costs rise again, or the patients are asked to check out. Notice number two, including from this government programme: The focus of your health work is the interests of the patients. And if the interests of the patients are such a focus, I do not understand why prevention and health care are thought about with less resources. If you know what the Court of Auditors has reported and calculated, that 1 € invests in precautionary care 3 € Repair medicine saves, then I don't understand you're not investing there anymore. I do not understand that there is no improvement in future investment in our children and young people. There has been a non-binding child health dialogue, there is this €4 million for vaccinations that are absolutely positive, but otherwise there has not been much in expanding the psychiatric care of children and young people. The restraints for children in hospital stays are still there, although you have said you will be there. For the hospice and palliative care – Mr Rasinger has already mentioned this – nothing has been done at all, let alone for the children's hospice, although your government programme says you want to strengthen and particularly support the self-help groups. Your prevention is just that you spend € 2 million on advertising, € 2.7 million for brochures where you give tips on how to feed yourself properly. Mr. Federal Minister, at the end of the day another look towards Upper Austria. I know you're not responsible for this, but you said today, a modern health system that looks forward is your concern. And if you look forward, you also need to know that the doctors in the regions, but also in the agglomerations, the practical doctors, the specialists. In Upper Austria in particular, we have major problems, and in the last ten years at the latest, entire regions will be without medical care. I would really ask you to act once, as Minister of Health from Upper Austria, and finally stop the years of consolation as far as the medical university is concerned. Since Minister Hahn we are comforted from year to year that it will come sometime, and x studies are done, but nothing happens. I would really ask you, as a responsible Minister of Health, who is aware of his responsibility for the future, to finally end these grievances and to speak to your colleagues in the government that the urgently needed medical university is being established in Upper Austria. This is a concern of all the parties in Upper Austria, and that should be a commission enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32791	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32812	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! I want to start with a good news. Those who come to the world in Austria today have a life expectancy of about 80 years. [[Abg. Oils: But on average!]] Wonderful, but not only do we want to live longer, we also want to stay healthy and fit for as long as possible. This desire, which is now the bad news, unfortunately goes in Austria more rarely in fulfillment than elsewhere. The fact is, the Austrians are getting sick earlier than the citizens of other EU countries. That's an alarm sign. [[Ruf:Because there is an unhealthy policy]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have to get sick with the government!]] Sweden, for example, remains healthy for ten years longer than the Austrians. Why don't we stay healthy for so long? What's that about? Is that the money? -No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Our health expenditure is above average high. For each Austrian, €3 400 is spent per year, with a third less in the EU section. Something's wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Precaution! You're from the government group!]] Where do our millions sluggish? – They go far too much into the repair of diseases and far too little in the precautionary care. Mr Minister, you have, and I see this as a positive sign, already announced that you want to do more prevention in the future. That's good and nice. The problem is that doctors are currently being paid to heal that they repair, but less for maintaining health. So efforts to promote and maintain health should be more honoured. This is also important because people are supposed to work longer and longer and longer in the job. However, this also includes the necessary health. It looks very different right now. In the previous year, 25 000 people retired with an invalidity pension. That's every third new entry into the pension. There's fire on the roof for me. These are all human tragedies, but there is also a lot of labour potential that our economy urgently needs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Minister, we need a power act, more precautions in every age, from kindergarten to old age. This also includes a legal claim, including rehabilitation for pensioners. This is important because if you stay mobile longer, you will need less care and care later on. So the recipe should be: less repair, more precautions. Finally, Mr Minister, I should like to draw your attention to a concern of the elderly. The current discussion about the possible extinction of domestic doctors has caused many older people enormous uncertainty. There needs to be a strengthening and safeguarding of the role of domestic doctors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32894	The next speaker was Mr Vock. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32915	Mrs Aubauer, you have just asked why the citizens of Austria are getting sick earlier than in other European countries. Perhaps our citizens must be more angry with our government than with citizens in other European states. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Krainer and Dr Pirklhuber.]] Mr Donabauer said that animal welfare cannot be done alone in Europe. Mr President, I am proud that Austrian animal welfare is the measuring bar for other European countries. I prefer animal shelters in Austria than killing stations in Eastern Europe! Specific to the animal protection budget: We have direct subsidies for initiatives and associations, for example the “Verein macht Schule”, the Good Aiderbichl, Gänserndorf or the Animal Protection Price. We promote scientific research, such as on the runway for dairy cows and the attitude of rabbits. However, we also spend money on bureaucracy, such as the Animal Protection Council, the Organisation for Animal Protection Price and Animal Transport in Aviation. Mr Minister, I might personally be more involved in direct subsidies and scientific research than in bureaucracy. An example is the so-called animal protection price. There the clubs and the initiatives that we honor will receive €30 000 as a fee, but €60 000 costs the organisation of this price. There you can see the ratio of bureaucracy to what we effectively spend on animal welfare. Idea promotion would, of course, also be the tax promotion of associations in the field of environmental and animal protection. I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution. The Federal Government wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Finance is asked to extend the list of aid organisations benefiting from the tax to cover all associations and bodies active in the field of animal and environmental protection in order to ensure the full tax deductibility of donations for animal and environmental protection in the future.” That would cost nothing, Minister. Perhaps one can finally realize at the ÖVP that the Austrian Animal Protection Act is in the constitutional rank. It doesn't cost anything, it'd be just a will rally. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, I hope you do not listen to the coalition partner ÖVP, as Mr Donabauer has said here, for which EU minimum standards are the measure of all things, but in future you will also work to ensure that animal welfare in Austria is a pioneer for Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e32998	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33062	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33085	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have already been among the milestones of the 2012 health budget in the ongoing debate. I would like to stress a few more. AGES financial security keyword: The AGES conducts some 30,000 tests annually and provides us with a variety of valuable information, from human medicine to medicine, food, agriculture to veterinary medicine. I am very glad that the funding of this facility could be ensured and there can also be a significant increase for 2012. Tag Extension of Child Imprisonment Programmes: Pneumococcal and meningococcal precautions will be fully financed in the future. The effort is €4 million per year, and from next year on, about 120,000 children will benefit. Sickness insurance in relation to demand-oriented minimum insurance: 33,000 people who have had to use treatments as social assistance recipients with a stigmatizing social security certificate so far now have their own e-card with the same legal requirements as all other health insurance providers. This is not only a question of justice, it is also a question of humanity. Finally, I would like to point out that it was possible to secure the financing of the cash fund. There will be €40 million available next year. The cash recovery package shows very good results. In 2011, the cash registers will exceed their damping targets by more than €200 million – and that without a reduction in performance, quite the contrary, the benefits were even improved last year. It is a great success that, despite demanding economic conditions, the 2012 health budget could be upgraded by a number of health policy milestones. However, I would like to point out that the development of the health system, but above all demographic development, will present new challenges to us. Not everything will be solvable over savings, as many demand, because savings usually mean cuts, means less performance. Therefore, all those who take action to ensure that proper health care is ensured in the future will know that fresh money is necessary and that it must also be applied in the sense of distribution justice. In the end, we will also have to pay for the millionaire tax. Finally, I note that the 2012 health budget is a very solid one and that it is characterised by good development, which we can be quite proud of. – Respect, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33135	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33156	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to refer once again to the colleague Aubauer, who referred to the precautionary medicine and the health issue and also pointed out that the Austrians were actually getting sick 10 years earlier compared to the Swedishs. Mr Federal Minister, we have often debated in the Committee the possibilities, measures in the field of nutrition and movement in Austria. I should also like to mention our request a few years ago. Above all, the field of nutrition and nutrition is very central, but not exclusively. In these areas of food safety, wherever you are responsible, there are also new risk technologies. It raises the question of the preparation of the appropriate measures that are necessary, and I would like to mention in this context your answer to my written question on the subject of which projects you support in the proposal approach 1/2433 under the heading of genetic technology and what is actually planned. I have to say, I'm unhappy with the answer. On the one hand, you have correctly pointed out that there is €5,000 for the Lake Constance Academy for information on non-genotechnic food and agriculture – that is positive – but on the other hand, you simply point out that this means spending on expert opinions, studies and other measures on matters relating to the implementation of the Genetics Act. But they have not answered me specifically, which individual positions, which organisations and which projects are to be used precisely with them. It may be you're still giving me that. There has been an indication that there will be a written submission on two of my personal oral questions. So far, she hasn't gotten in. I have talked to my employees, who have been extra-curricular and have tried to get these documents; we have not got them. On the subject of animal welfare, which is also very central in your area, I would like to mention positively the animal welfare test site, in terms of installation systems, for the examination of animal husbandry systems by a relevant specialist body in advance. I believe that this is a right step, which is actually the implementation of the Animal Protection Act, as we decided in 2006. On this occasion also a reference to the labelling requirement of processed eggs in various products such as noodles and flour foods. As you know, we do not currently have a label. That's what brings me to the key word "goeds" law. My question to the Seal of Goods was where funds are provided for the Law of Goods. You said in committee: Well, that's actually nowhere comprehensible, if we need money for it, we'll find some. I think this is very, very counterproductive and ultimately defensive. I assume that there must be and will be an Austrian quality seal law, which must cover the areas of origin protection, genetic engineering and animal welfare, and also provides for annual control, because only then will state seal of quality be fully legitimised and comprehensible to consumers. I'd expect that. Unfortunately, there is no reference to this either. In conclusion: The biggest chunks and the increase that we welcomed were the € 15 million in addition to the Agency for Health and Food Safety. In the end, however, the overall positive result is also paired with ambiguities. For example, they have not provided the Committee with the AGES’ effective corporate concept, 2011 to 2015. This has been dealt with between the agricultural sector, your resort and the management. This company concept is also not on the homepage of the AGES. So no Member of Parliament currently has an insight. I take only one answer to a question that in the future there will be an obligation to approve these work programmes by the owners, by your ministry and by the Minister of Agriculture. In other words, the so-called outsourced AGES as GmbH would in future go to the ministry for each work programme and get the Sanctuary. So this is perhaps still in order in the area of your place of business, in the field of agriculture I do not know what that means in concrete terms. We will have to look at this very carefully. There's no such thing as that. There would be ‘National action plan for the reduction of pesticides’ or the re-authorisation of genetic engineering plants currently in place at EU level. This requires fundamental research and risk analysis. I assume that we will, with strong pressure from the House, also contribute to the implementation of these studies and these risk analyses. But unfortunately, as has been said, the business concept does not exist at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33222	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33244	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! If the health budget now stands for parliamentary discussion, I can say positively that expenditure on health for 2012 has been increased by around €78 million compared to 2011. This is a clear commitment to comprehensive health care for all people in this country. If I say, for all people in this country, I mean, it is also explicit for those whom we have taken in the health insurance by means of the need-oriented minimum insurance. We have thus obtained legal equal access to Austrian health insurance. Appreciate High House! For me, health is not only a good health care, but also a safe diet. A safe diet can help – and this is what the experts tell us! – that we can also achieve savings in the health sector, and that is why I think it is positive that we increase the financial resources for the AGES, which carry out the health monitoring of food from production to plate, and also the review of medicinal products, namely, by € 15.8 million in 2012. I am also very glad that we guarantee the financing of this important institution AGES with the financial resources of € 19.8 million for a longer period of time. For the years 2013 to 2015, they are financed in the longer term. Mr. Federal Minister, you have already demonstrated with the funding or rehabilitation of health insurance companies how seriously you take health care, and I am confident that you will be able to do so at ELGA. You have a hundred percent support for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33292	The next item is the speech by Mr Sacher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33313	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Health policy moves people, and Federal Minister Stöger moves health policy, and the very obviously nervous member of the opposition today moves so much in this debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister Stöger moves more than the critical press in relation to the situation of competence has previously agreed to him. He has not only defined important goals, but also implemented them. But there are problems in implementation. The implementation of the health reform depends very strongly on the willingness of the federal states to enter into a constructive dialogue with the Federal Ministry of Health and the Federal Ministry of Health. I just call it the word “Federal United Hospital Law. ” As a Lower Austrian, I think there is a negative case, namely the fact that the Lower Austrian hospital representative Sobotka does not cooperate with each other – that man who has new hospitals located in Baden and Mödling and in Neunkirchen and in Wiener Neustadt for a few kilometres from each other against all economic reason. Proposals Stögers on this Federal Hospital Law has literally referred to the Lower Austrian Health Council as “Rülpser”, ladies and gentlemen. Disqualified with this style has been especially Sobotka himself. Thankfully, ÖVP financier stupidly spoke yesterday of a saving of hospital beds. As the Secretary of State some time ago In contrast, the Lower Austrian ÖVP has done a penetrating mood and has been drawn over the SPÖ. Dear Günter stupid, perhaps you could talk to the Lower Austrian party colleague Sobotka about his willingness to reform and his style. By the way, the honourable Member has also spoken today about this willingness to reform in a remarkable way on the part of the Lower Austrian ÖVP. Finally, I would like to say: Minister Stöger has moved a lot with his reform policy: Doctoral GmbHs, enhanced establishment of community practices, job sharing practices, ensuring family health care. I am pleased, Mr Health Minister, that next week we will be able to make the groundbreaking ceremony for a new health and social centre in Krems. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33360	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33381	Mr President. Minister of Health! I would like to say immediately: The ELGA is not the horse of the Federal Minister, but there are already appropriate decisions of the legislative bodies. Of course, you need to discuss the electronic health act, but I think that more materiality would sometimes be appropriate. And it does not help if the colleague lists to the Federal Minister's intellect. [[Abg. List: Read the paper today!]] We should not blame each other for what we know or do not know, because that does not really bring us, I believe, on this case. Unfortunately, the content of the discussion is lost, and the subject matter cannot be spoken of in terms of the content of the advertisements of the Vienna Chamber of Physicians, for there is nothing but polemics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps this will change when the elections of the Vienna Medical Office are over. You'll see. It is reported in many media, and there are very different quality media from free newspapers. I mean an article in the "Falter" of 9. November. I do not want to quote what Kurt Langbein wrote here now, because I have asked for a matter of fact, and that is perhaps a little polemic. One of the most common arguments that are brought is data protection. Of course, data protection is important, completely undisputed, but I believe that – and here I think we are – human protection is important. In fact, some remarks are not comprehensible. As many suggest, server farms are built and all data stored centrally. So it is not, in fact, because the data are all stored where they are now. And no one can claim that there is no data storage right now. Of course, the findings are already stored electronically. Access works, and the missing link, if I may say so, is the e-card that allows data access. But I would also like to compare this with other electronic systems that we have. Federal Minister Bartenstein will know: A few years ago, we introduced the electronic act into the league. There was no one who was against it and said: Data protection is not guaranteed! And in contrast to the Electronic Health Act, it is also centrally stored there. And as for the fear of data clau, I would like to say: Which one of you doesn't make electronic banking? I want him to raise his hand now! Who does not make the tax declaration on FinanzOnline? - Everybody probably! [[Deputies Dr. Lichtenecker and Dr. Pirklhuber raise their hands.]] Okay, there's a few. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Yeah, it's okay, it may be. But no one – because of data protection, you say. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: Because of data protection!]] Probably! That's right! But many do, and many do it extremely successfully. I mean, it's clearly the benefit for the patients and also for the doctors and hospitals. It is qualitative in nature and it is quantitative in nature. And as far as the costs are concerned, Mr Strutz: The Federal Minister has never made a living out of what the costs actually mean, and they happen to cover themselves with what you mentioned. But the savings outweigh. And in the discussion on more materiality, we should not deal with the breaking rod, you are right, but, Mr Rasinger, if you have the discussion, I would say that you too have been a bit rough. Mr Federal Minister, no one needs to be afraid of the Electronic Health Act; it is an important and meaningful contribution to saving. I would like to say, Minister of State, that you continue this path. And if I'm already at the point saving, I have to say: Savings and debt brakes – this is also about tax justice, and this is about eliminating the wrong situation in the tax system! Some experts have also noted in the budget hearing the following: In addition to reasonable savings, it is also a question of asking the rich to cash out! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33448	As regards health, I am no longer able to speak. This will also be done with this subject area. [[14:08:59]] Heading 3 (Education, research, art and culture)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33469	Heading 3 will now be discussed. Education, research, art and culture. [[14:09:04]] UG 30: Education
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33490	First of all, the breakdown 30: Education. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time is required. I'll set them up. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33515	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have already heard one thing or another in the general debate on education, in particular, the call for more money for education – in principle a real, high concern! Only: It is not true that in Austria little money would be spent on education. That's what the OECD says. It is even spent relatively much money. The only problem is that the money doesn't arrive in the classroom because there's a filter in between. And I would once call these gross filters “school management” where one or another remains in it, which would be much better removed directly in the classroom. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, the call for more money is actually the second, because with more of the same, I do not make any improvement, no change, but first I have to see where the structure can be changed. There are, of course, very many suggestions. There is even a government agreement on administrative reform due to suggestions made by the Court of Auditors with the IHS. This point has also been raised in the educational population, where there are also a number of points in it, which are taken seriously by the FPÖ on the one hand and on the other hand are wanted. I would rather say that these are points that could be put under the heading “No-na-net! requirements”. Other points such as “total school with restricted education” or “end of seat stay” are points that expressly do not receive our consent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I would like to say, because it is also a matter of savings, and because the government parties are always accusing that the opposition does not offer any constructive proposals, to put forward a motion for a resolution on the restructuring of the school authorities. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a very clear request, which is even covered by the government programme, so we ask you to give your consent to it tomorrow as part of the final vote. Another point I would like to address concerns the “love child” of Mrs. Federal Minister or one of your educational “love children”, which is the “New Middle School”. In general, the main schools are now to be changed across the board – also with the agreement of the ÖVP – because this is obviously to be so interesting. I've believed that's a school attempt, and in a school experiment, you'll first evaluate if that actually brings something. Without waiting for the results, we now say: No, we blindly trust that it is the best, and therefore we want to transfer it to the regular school! We would have liked to look at this first, in particular we would have liked to draw the comparison: What would have been if these additional resources had been offered for team teaching, lower classrooms, and, and also for the secondary level in the gymnasium? Then you could have really compared what the services look like. That is why I make a further request. Resolution by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues on education justice for all school attempts – more budget also for the AHS The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture, are invited to forward to the National Council a government template providing comparable additional resources for the AHS, such as for the school attempt of the new secondary school. Furthermore, all considerations used to reform secondary school should be maintained in the current version of the AHS long form.” The teaching concept of the liberals is one – and I would like to say this at the end here: We want to promote the idea of performance and discipline in schools and we also want a family-friendly school!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33623	The motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33723	Next speaker: Mr Elmar Mayer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33750	Mr President. Women Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I can agree with Mr Rosenkranz on many points, especially with regard to the abolition of district school councils. However, I do not think we will need this proposal and it will nevertheless come to pass. [[Abg. Petzner: Do it once!]] I would like to address the educational people's desire very briefly, because I believe that nearly 400 000 signatures from people who are interested in education who accept this topic are a result that is impressive. In the January session, we will deal with this issue in more detail, but I would like to get the whole thing right now in historical development. If you had made a text for an educational people ten years ago, then, I think, you would have said: We need improved early support for small children, we need intensive language support in small groups, classes with over 25 students are no longer acceptable, so we need to reduce the maximum number of school students, we need to expand all day care, we need education standards at all cross-border levels, we need a new matura, we need to upgrade the primary school, we need a “common school” where I believe that this is important – at least the primary school needs to be competitive – and we need, last but not least, the “teaching with Matura”, a reform of the upper level and a modular upper level. I can remember what has happened in this context in the last ten years. In my home country, it was so that out of 6,000 teachers, 5,000 went to the street because they had reduced the lessons. One has not worsened the work situation or other things directly for the teachers, but has shortened the hours, which has been lasting and which is why the students now suffer. For five years now, we have a new minister who has been very committed – and I believe that much more committed is not possible under the conditions of education policy – step by step from what we actually wanted to do ten years ago. I am thinking, for example, of language promotion. This budget again spends more than €12 million on small-group language promotion alone. Next point: the continuation of the reduction in the maximum number of students. – The number of posts has increased by thousands. At that time, there was the discussion that there would be a reduction in the number of posts to be dropped. We now have thousands more in posts at the schools, because we have lowered the maximum number of students because we are making improved individual care. Furthermore, we have brought the resurgence of educational qualifications to the rails. This is also free of charge. And: ‘Teach with Matura’. – More than €12 million will be spent next year, so that the 7 000 currently in training can make a Matura. We have already taken a decisive step in the field of upper-level reform with the modular upper-level, have prepared the law accordingly and will adopt this law no later than next year in this House. Then we can really say that we have in secondary school two a modern teaching that enables teachers to give the students the things they need, and not only to weaken weaknesses on a continuous basis, but especially to promote gifts that lead young people to where they are gifted. And we have put on track the education standards that are very, very important. It has been shown how important it is in everyday school that one is consciously working on goals in the field of education. The education standards are to be given in the fourth school level, in the eighth school level and then up to the new Matura. We also want to develop – and I say that quite openly and self-critically – the “New Secondary School” which we now take into the regular education system. It is currently not possible with the coalition partner to implement a ‘common school’, but we are doing everything we can to improve the situation for the students in secondary school two, for the former primary students, to give them the necessary resources to work better in the future and to have a better start into the future. We want to make it more likely until, when time is ripe, we have the “common school” where they too will have the same opportunities as the others. This is happening for the time being with the switch from the primary school to the "New Secondary School". Not least are the appropriations provided for in the forthcoming budget. 80 million a year are planned for the next four years, i.e. four times 80 million euros, that is 320 million euros. This is also important for day care. If you know how important it is for the children to have the opportunity to use their talents, especially those from the more remote layers, then you also feel that these funds are absolutely, urgently necessary and important. I therefore believe that this educational budget, this budget for education, deserves the support of all. I invite everyone to make really constructive contributions that help to develop the school further. What is now being put on the rail can be seen, and it is sustainable. I know that not everything we're going to do in the next year and what we're going to decide next year can be measured next year. Then: These things are sustainable, Tanker Education moves only slowly. We now have the consequences of earlier and now we have to change the course. But it is worth fighting for it, and it will also be worth providing motivation accordingly, for the schools need it. They need motivation and not constantly negative mood. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33786	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33808	Mr Mayer, it's perfectly right: Schools don't need a negative mood, they need motivation! Therefore, I begin with positive messages very consciously. Today the terrible thing has happened: The conservatives are moving, for example, in Germany the CDU is taking a significant step forward in the field of education – there is a little lack of the ÖVP, the former black half of the empire, today the quarter. There's something else very positive to report – and that's really enormous now; I want to read this to you, because that means a turn of time in the education policy of the ÖVP: ORF-Homepage Vorarlberg, I quote literally: “The forthcoming Education Spokesperson of the ÖVP, Kurt Fischer, supports the Greens’ proposal to set up a Joint School for the Ten to 14-year-olds.” I think this movement in the ÖVP is worth a applause. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is on the ORF homepage today. This is a major step forward. These are very, very positive signs. Mr Rosenkranz, we're still going. Do you know who has agreed to this request by the Greens according to the ORF homepage? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: I can imagine!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Mr. Rosenkranz!]] I'm just quoting the ORF homepage here. The teacher of the FPÖ has voted in Lustenau, who is responsible for education. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What's his name?]] Do you know what the blacks and the blues – in Lustenau the blacks have the absolute majority, the blues once had them – want to do together now? – You want to convert the only AHS sub-level into a common school. We have the common school for the first time under black and blue pattern, if you want, in Lustenau in Vorarlberg. Mrs Minister, this is, I believe, a positive beginning of my speech, and you see, green persistence, green conviction that in this country the concrete really crumbles, even the black evidence of education. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The world is not long!]] Mr Amon already laughs. I notice he sees the chance that he will now become the great black education reformer. Mr Amon, I would like to invite you to further discussions, and I am sure that similar reports will also be made by the ÖVP Group in the National Council in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] However, I am still worried a little, because in today’s edition of the newspaper “Falter” there is an interview with the esteemed president of the trade union public service, Fritz Neugebauer. This raises the question of why the union has not yet been prepared to enter into discussions on the common school. And Fritz NeugebauerNa says yes to this question would almost fail the Constitution of 1920. And to the question of whether this has not been a little long ago, he says, yes, one has then decided to accept this question in succession. I would say, after 90 years, colleague Amon, take the step, get with us and we'll realize the common school in the next few years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The ÖVP thinks in thousands of years!]] Until then, Mrs Minister, we still have to move a little bit in our budget. I have heard from you in the Committee – and this will also be spread in propagandistic terms – that the education budget has been increased. However, if you look at this more precisely – I'm sorry; and that's what it's all about the simple basic accounting modes – then you'll find that there's a nominal increase – I agree with you – but it's about 313 million, but on the one hand, it's a budget trick or a necessity – you said you don't understand it yourself, I don't understand why you're delaying the payment of salaries, but there's just a monthly salary of the federal staff more inside, and that's a total of 247 million €, I've written it out – and on the other hand, amounts of the BIG that make up 75 million. And if you calculate that, you'll unfortunately get a little bit, but still a minute before the number. So with an increase, with a focus in the year of education, this unfortunately has nothing to do with it. I can assure you, we will take a closer look at this in the future. I have also made the effort to look at the statistics of Austria. You can simply predetermine the number of students in the next few years, and there it is shown that the number remains about the same. In any case, in the next budget year, it will remain the same if you compensate for a little increase in the upper-level range with a small minus in the field of folk schools. Mr Mayer, from more posts: Even if you repeat an untruth over and over again, it won't be right. The next year, exactly 307 German teachers' posts are less estimated in the budget. That is, please refer to this budget preview. If you take seriously what is in it – I am not sure with this government, because you yourself are already announcing that you will decide a new budget from January onwards – and that will happen, then we will have fewer and no more posts of service there. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: You have to look at the numbers of students!]] And in the field of compulsory school teachers it doesn't look better. The figures for this are not included in this budget, because it is a matter of country, but if you calculate it, we also have a remarkable minus there. So total: The current 2012 budget does not look the same as it should be. The educational budget, the teaching budget is clearly under-dated. The reform steps you, Mrs Minister, have taken and we support in terms of content, you will not be able to implement successfully with this kind of policy. Finally, if you go on the big issue, you're finally going on the subject of school administration. Here you have us at your side, as we are willing to also carry unpopular demands and measures. But you must have the courage to make it clear to your heads of state and to the heads of state of the ÖVP in the federal states: This is not about positions of power, but about a simple structure, a structure that facilitates our children's life in school, which facilitates teachers' lives and allows us to move forward in Austria to the step we need to take in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33949	Next speaker: Mr Amon. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e33970	Mr President. Dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! It is understandable that Mr Walser is clinging to events taking place in small districts in the small Vorarlberg, rather than looking forward to the great throw of the New Middle School. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: The largest market town!]] All primary schools are being developed into new secondary schools, and the gymnasias are allowed to remain – a beautiful success of the government parties, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A great development, and I would really be pleased, Mr Walser, if once you managed to make a positive comment on what is taking place in reform, what we are doing in a wonderful, I really must say, in a really exemplary coalitionary climate in the field of education in a constructive way. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Did he say eh!]] It would be nice if the opposition were to recognize such a thing one time, but that is not possible. You stay on the drawing of apocalyptic images: Everything goes by the way, everything is wrong, everything is bad! – It is not that way, Mr Walser, the reality is a little different! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also applies to the budget. Quite frankly, we can talk about a lot of things, but it is precisely the Minister of Education and the Minister of Finance who is very much grateful to her that she is making available € 313 million more for the education sector for the next year, especially at a time when we have to budget very carefully, in order to develop budgets in a sustainable way. This is a huge success, a huge investment in the future, and for that the two Federal Ministers pay our sincere thanks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Budget tricks are these, Mr. Colleague!]] As far as education is concerned, there are a lot of offensive measures in the government programme. – Mr Walser, you shake your head. I don't understand your destructive behavior. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: I'm not destructive!]] The “25” project is a really great educational policy project, which refers not only to secondary schools but, of course, also to the AHS sub-level. It was always a declared educational goal to set the maximum number of students to 25. We'll do this. You just don't have the pleasure of putting it into practice, that's your problem, but we're doing it. Or think about the further development of the upper level, think of the afternoon care: 80 million € per year more has yet to be agreed on Josef Pröll! – We do this year after year. By 2015 the number of afternoon care places will be doubled. This is an offensive education policy! The difference is: They talk – and we do it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It must also be addressed because this has also been addressed how we deal with the educational people's desire. Of course, every sign must be taken seriously in every popular desire, it should be dealt with in a serious way, but it must also be noted that some of the 35 people who have so far had this educational desire at 17. The job is about 6 percent of the electorate who signed it. I am in favour of proper treatment of this popular desire here in Parliament, which should be properly dealt with, but I am opposed to special treatment because it would also be unfair to other people's desires. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Just because you pushed all the others down! Because you've never taken one seriously, don't take the educational people's desire seriously! That's a logic!]] I looked at this: The popular desire for “Social State of Austria” was supported by 12.20 percent of the electorate. 12.20 percent, twice as many as the current educational population. At that time a subcommittee of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs was set up, and there was a meeting in which it was discussed, ladies and gentlemen. Or popular desire to create a Federal Animal Protection Act: There was the support of 7.96 percent of the electorate, a subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee, in which it was involved in three meetings. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: That's cynical what you're doing, colleague.]] Or: The popular desire to ensure neutrality was supported by quite a lot, that is, 6.21 percent, and there was a subcommittee of the Committee on Foreign Policy with two meetings. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You should be careful, many ÖVP voters have signed the popular desire!]] We now propose that this be treated properly: Not just a subcommittee meeting, no, of course, discussion in the teaching committee, setting up a subcommittee, proper treatment of the science section, the teaching part, another meeting in the teaching committee. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Take an example of Kurt Fischer, Mayor of Lustenau!]] So a proper treatment and a serious take – of course – all those who signed it, a proper deal, but no special treatment, because that would be really unfair to all other popular desires! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that we have achieved a great deal together, and we have a great deal to do with. Think – I have addressed it – of the modular upper level! Think of the education standards – I think that is an essential point! Remember, however, that we have the central maturity test on rail and are currently testing! Think of the question of the right to serve, which is very crucial! We want a uniform teacher's right, as stated in the Government Convention. And we will work together to implement this with staff representatives, teachers and teachers. In the end, we also want to “start” teacher training. To talk about that little happens in the field of education is simple and simple demagogy. It's not true, it happens very, very much. We are further developing the Austrian education system positively, and it would be nice if the opposition would not always be destructive here, by not recognizing anything, but even if positive statements were made here from the opposition. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34157	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34178	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon spoke of, I believe, apocalyptic images drawing the opposition, of destructiveness and the like. I must say that even if criticism is being used here, especially in the field of education – and you have to admit that honestly – all work constructively and critically. I think the Minister of State will see it that way. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] The fact that if you practice criticism, you have apocalyptic ideas, I find that far-reaching. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Let's send the mushroom to committee!]] I would like to say to the school budget: A great budget because there is more money! But I cannot say it because we know that these additional 4 percent are not primarily for educational initiatives, but also for repayments to the BIG and the like. [[Abg. Amon: Do it!]] Therefore, it is really difficult to say that this is a program, a budget that really takes into account the signs of time and the future. I do not want to say that you, Mrs Minister, have at least a certain strategy. In contrast to the Minister for Health, who has no strategy at all, you are pursuing your priorities. One can stand for what one wants, but one of the points is, for example, the expansion of day care, which we have also agreed to and which we find positive. It is only a start-up financing, but after a few years we will see how it continues. We also do not know how the communities get to grips with this, because the communities are asked to the cash register and will not deal with it alone. They're going through the New Secondary School. I know that's just one – now I'd say bad compromise – compromise with the ÖVP because you didn't do the alternative common school. Mr Walser, as you are so pleased that now in Vorarlberg Black with blue rises on green initiatives, I can tell you that Kärnten, under BZÖ's head of state Jörg Haider, was the first federal country to introduce a common school in school or some projects. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As far as this is now being reversed under the leadership of a liberal or a FPK, that is currently missing from my knowledge. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: The same people! But the same people who act!]] - Let's see. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is “Part of the game”!]] Here we should leave the church in the village. We really need to take a close look at the New Secondary School. I think positive is that there is more individual funding, which is absolutely good, especially in compulsory items, that performance incentives are given that the primary school is upgraded. But it is still a compromise that you have found and that ultimately does not implement what Mrs Minister and many here in this House want us to have the common school in our school system as an alternative. That's why I'm wondering: Is this budget, with this small increase, really one that gives the right answers to a system that is still very expensive, which is still inefficient, to a school system from which young people come out – I think it is 15 percent – that do not have a compulsory school degree, where 28 percent have great reading weaknesses? [[Abg. Head: What is the answer to inefficiency? More money?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The Debt Brake!]] We are still world holiday champions, still have the minimum lessons. Is this a budget that takes account of the changed working and family world? – I must say that this budget does not correspond to that, because I have already said that in committee, 90 percent of this budget is planned for personnel costs, and I wonder: Where's the room for design? I have referred to it as the mandatory programme in the Committee, but nothing remains for the course that is so necessary. In the budget, for example, the cost of school supervision continues to rise. That's what I'm asking myself: Where are the changes to be satisfied? We from the BZÖ are very important three points for a sustainable education system and a good programme: quickly a uniform education, a training that is already being discussed a lot, because in our school system we only need the best as teachers. It must, as it were, be an honor to become a teacher. It must be an award. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This also applies to those who now had to take on many additional tasks in the preschool, kindergarten sector and will take over in the future. We urgently need a new teacher service and salary right with corresponding entry salaries for the boys and a flattened pay curve. We need clear definitions of the area of responsibility of teachers, which cannot be limited to just the number of lessons held. Teachers, being a teacher is more, requires more of activities and tasks, and that must be clearly defined with the workplace school. We are also very, very important to have compulsory training throughout the course of our careers for teachers. The third point, this hot iron, before which all are pressed – especially those who now have government responsibility – is the school administration reform. Mrs. Federal Minister, I have the feeling that you've already resigned, you're not gonna pick that up anymore, you're gonna be happy with the status quo. Please don't give up! See that in this area, where so many financial resources are parked, we raise them – I would like to say almost – and allow the financial resources to flow where we need them: for the best training of our children and our young people! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For us, a debt brake, which is to come only until 2017, is pointless, if not here, now and quickly started. Clear allocations of competence must exist, multi-tracks must be eliminated. The District School Councils have already been addressed. I do not want to take out the national school councils, for example, because we have colleges that are occupied in a quantity that could really be from the monarchy – I would have said almost: from the Stone Age. We do not need different school holders, not different school authorities and school community associations. And what's very important to me is: Politics has to get out of schools. Party policy has nothing to do in school! [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] We currently have party policy from top to bottom to lowest cleaning power. We have been in the Committee for two years in this regard. His treatment has been postponed over and over again. I hope he'll be back in the discussion now. I say here as BZÖ representative: We have paid enough – also for a school system that frustrates many performance-ready educators and does not open up many children's necessary and important opportunities. That is why I have to say, unfortunately: This programme, this budget is not a school investment programme, but a school savings program. For this reason, as a Member of Parliament, I have also signed the educational demand – I had already signed for its introduction – because we have to put pressure on all levels that progress in education does not go too slowly that we do not stand on education issues. I have also made it a chairman of the Committee on Petitions, because direct democracy must be capable of expanding for me in a modern democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34320	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Schmied spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34341	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to start by referring to your performances, Mr Rosenkranz, in terms of expenditure per student. They have correctly translated OECD statistics: Austria is in the top three, with regard to expenditure per capita, per student, per student. That, however, has three reasons. First point – I express it very positively now, because I also see it positively –: The good school infrastructure in rural areas is an expenditure factor. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Second point: The age structure of teachers – and I say this very value-free now, I have experienced the first half of 2009 – in conjunction with the teaching obligation, I am only in an ist recording, is an element of expenditure. Of course, spending is also the high proportion of vocational schools in secondary school, the global success model bad and co-guarantor for young people in Austria to find jobs. These are the expenditure positions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If someone now believes that the administrative reform is going to free up billions of money, please send it to me and to the Minister for Finance! I have already come to the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee with united powers to adapt the structures for reasons of effectiveness, but we do not get liquidity free through this measure. Example: Court of Auditors report, abolition of district school councils, savings € 5 million. That's important, but that's not the billions, I'm worth it! – I am absolutely with you when it comes to sensible measures, but we should not discuss this under the liquidity and expenditure aspect. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: useful! The whole opposition is for this!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] – May I present my points now? Second point: I come now to the point of budget structure and education, Mrs Haubner has already pointed out. What happens when you look at my budget? A high proportion of staff expenditure, mainly for teachers. If you look at the 2011 Federal Estimate: 6.1 billion € compared to an educational budget of 7.3 billion €; then already the cost of renting, for operating costs of school buildings in the order of 500 million €. 2011 takes into account the former compensation fee of €75 million – only so that we have the sizes for this. There are therefore fixed expenditures that account for more than 90 percent of the total budget. It is therefore clear – the Minister for Finance and I, we have discussed intensively in the Committee – that wage increases and rental price indexations are reflected in the budget after the reserves have been exhausted. This is a very clear thing, a very clear consequence, resulting from my budget structure. If you now, Mrs Haubner, talk about the compulsory education programme in connection with this budget structure – and I have written it down at the committee discussion – and also work out the low scope for the education policy course, it is simply fact that education is very much dependent on the teachers, so that it will always have a high percentage of staff costs. And it's important to me to anchor quite a lot of projects that we have started to work hard and by law, to bring them into series, to explain them to the standard. I like a lead from Beethoven quite well, which I heard today in the early days. I think he's pretty good. “What you want to do, do it soon!” – I think this guiding principle should apply to our reform projects as far as the law enforcement is concerned. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Yes, Mr. Amon!]] [[Abg. Amon: Everything we do, we do soon!]] There are important projects in the budget, ladies and gentlemen, which are very important. I would also like to stress that school is our common responsibility and responsibility and that public schools with a full-day offer – emphasis on offer – are among the important location factors of communities, regions and cities today, and therefore the mayors are very important parts of a living school partnership. I am very pleased about the good cooperation with President Mödlhammer, which we are now confirming in the implementation of the full-day school offer programme. I would like to stress five projects which, I believe, are particularly important which are substantial in the 2012 budget. First: The project concerns smaller classes. I should like to remind you that there has already been a popular desire on this project. It's implemented. It is budgeted at € 284 million, 86 percent for the national teachers, i.e. compulsory school. This is once again an indication that we will also take account of the relevant controlling measures in the future financial compensation. The second project – New secondary school: € 68 million in the budget, in the final expansion € 230 million. The expansion of all day school forms has already been mentioned, language promotion German, education standards, matura new, free repetition of educational qualifications, teaching and matura, support contributions for schools in free circulation, “art makes school”, many initiatives. To sum up, I can confirm what Mr Elmar Mayer said: 10,000 jobs for teachers who have been created by these measures – call me an industry that is currently able to secure so many new jobs in a sustainable way! I believe that we should now also discuss education policy in terms of economic policy and labour market policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are now working – and I would like to thank you for the constructive and trusting cooperation with Elmar Mayerund Werner Amon – on a legal package that I hope we can deal with very soon. This is about the inclusion of the New Secondary School in the regular education system, the reform of the upper level, integration at the ninth level and the new groundbreaking service law for the educational universities. Finally, I would like to stress that I am very, very serious about the impulses that are now coming from civil society. There are still many ambitious projects ahead of us. In any case, I am looking forward to an appreciative, respectful, forward-looking cooperation here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34442	The next speaker was Mrs Gessl-Ranftl, who spoke three minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34464	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Even though the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition are always trying to dissuade the educational budget, I believe that education is seen as one of the priorities of the Federal Government, and this is certainly reflected in the 2012 budget. It should be noted positively that Austria invests a lot in education and is placed in the first third in the annual expenditure per student everywhere – this has already been mentioned by our Mrs. Federal Minister. I also think it is particularly important in this budget that all future projects, such as the expansion of full day care and the adoption of the New Secondary School, are budgeted in the regular education system. Budgeting is done separately and not at the expense of the AHS locations, as it is often mistakenly colported. I see an important and right step into the future with the expansion of the New Secondary School and that all the first classes of primary school locations should be changed by 2015. The full expansion will be achieved in 2018, 2019. A number of students are planned to attend 1 178 locations. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the New Secondary School is certainly an innovation for Austria. We are therefore on our way to the international top field in the field of education. As a teacher, I am deeply convinced that each student benefits from the introduction of the New Secondary School and is individually promoted and demanded. It sets out priorities such as internal differentiation, the two-teacher system, the differentiation of interests from the second or fourth school level, but also the second living foreign language from the third class. I am pleased that for the first time since 1962 a new school form has become a general school. I congratulate Mrs Schmied on this decision, because investments in our children, in our youth, are very well-established investments in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34509	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Strutz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34530	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to address two points. On the one hand, I would like to address - I have already done so in the Committee on Budget - equal treatment or equality between private schools and private schools with conventional schools. I would also like to ask you here again, something that you have, in any case, recognized as right, namely a revision of the private school law, perhaps still in this legislative period. It is about the fact that we have to fight with very modest means in this area. I believe that not only the religious and religious private schools, which relieve the public school system in a way that I believe is really excellent, have a legal claim to receive teachers or financial expenses for teaching, but also that free private schools are put on a legal basis, so that the state of being downgraded to be bitters and always dependent on the goodwill of the respective district school inspectors does not continue to exist. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, I would ask you to give the House a report on how religious schools and financial resources have developed in recent years. There are no official figures on that. It is said that financial grants to Islamic schools in particular have increased disproportionately. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: “Islamist” schools do not exist, there are Islamic schools!]] Mr Walser, you know better. Come out, tell me! I am Roman-Catholic, I also confess to it; I know it. You know yourself in a different area. Come out, represent your position! I say that private schools, especially Catholic schools, are getting less and less of these financial resources. This is about getting a legal basis and checking whether the first thing is needed at all, and, secondly, what people or pupils are being taught there. From my point of view, certain criteria need to be clearly defined which can be used in order to be able to provide financial assistance to these institutions. That's all a little bit in the lawless space right now and depends a little on arbitrariness. Mrs Bundesminister, perhaps You're still doing this in this legislative period. I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The ÖVP Partyman and Vice Chancellor Spindelegger made a very good demand. I quote the magazine “ÖsterREICH”, already dated 24. On 1 February 2010, Spindelegger mentioned that he was referring to a study. I assume that this study is known to you, a “study after which every third child with a migrant background has read-snails”. “That is,” says Spindelegger, “a ‘most serious problem’” for Austria. "And that is why the Minister of the VP now wants to introduce sanctions: If the families do not take advantage of the German courses offered for their children, they should lose the social benefits. In concrete terms, the allowance for children and family allowances would be stopped. This should not only affect preschool children, but also older children with German defects.” It is a very useful excuse for the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, whom we support. That is why we are also bringing this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34597	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34651	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34673	Mr President. Estimated Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! More money on investment in the future in education, research and science, it has emphasized our Minister for Finance in her budget speech, and I mean, this is how responsible policy is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No one wants to argue that education is a key issue, it is about the future of our children, about the future of our country and about competitiveness. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Whether this is the position of the ÖVP Vorarlberg? Is the ÖVP Vorarlberg for the entire school or not?]] And if you, Mr Walser, have been talking and writing about an educational emergency for years, that is simply not true. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] We are constantly taking a lot of money into our schools. We have lowered the number of students in the classes. All day care is gradually extended. Education standards are being implemented. The modular upper level is a major reform step and, of course, the New Secondary School. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There is €300 million more for the upcoming budget. That's really not a cardboard handle. – Thank you to our two ministers! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Mr Walser, a question would interest me if you kept talking to me: They were director of a gymnasium. Why didn't you take the chance at your time and turn this gymnasium into a common school as a pilot project? [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Because your Minister of Education did not allow this!]] You'd have had the chance! [[Congratulations and Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Prince: Now you've been exposed, Mr. Walser!]] And when we're at the money: If I see what communities do about money for school buildings, school buildings and even small schools in the country, I have to say that these are big sums. It's worth considering and it's exemplary models that are talking about themselves. But, of course, what happens within this school building is much more important. There must be space for performance and competition, creativity and independent thinking. School is not a social institution that can replace family and private relations and networks. A good school starts with the people acting. These are the teachers, quite clear. And in this case my thanks also apply to all dedicated educators in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Teacher training needs to be improved. We need a modern service right with higher initial salaries, a flatter pay curve. We urgently need to increase the appreciation of our society to our teachers, because the best and most creative minds must want to become teachers so that our school does not remain mediocre. We have to start early childhood education in particular, because what is missing there is very difficult to catch up with later. Much has already happened with the expansion of language promotion, but the issue of education needs to be stressed even more in kindergarten. The transition from kindergarten to folk school must not be a barrier, but must also take place fluently. A strong folk school recognizes the learning potential of the children and specifically promotes the basic competences of speaking, reading, writing and computing. Yes, this is the common school from 6 to 10, but we also note there that unfortunately the great differences in performance cannot be improved. Children come to school from different situations and with different conditions. They also have different interests and strengths. That is why it is not right to trim everyone to the Matura, but to allow them, according to their inclinations and interests, the way to a full professional life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then the goal is not that everyone should be academic. That is why I do not think of compulsory academic quotas, but everyone and everyone should find the profession for which he or she has the best conditions. The teaching is just as important as the way to Matura. And I think the country also needs excellent professionals in addition to good academics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, education must not be a dead end, and we have also regulated it in such a way that there is no degree without connection. Education must also not produce losers, but performance and competition must have their place in the educational debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34790	Mr Brosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34811	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Col. Amon wanted to hear praise – let's try it. It is commendable to mention that education policy under Minister Schmied has improved significantly towards her predecessor – that is a praise – that there has been improvements in both the confessions and, in particular, on the question of how school should look, there is a very different form of discussion – that is also recognised – as well as in individual measures. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and BZÖ]] No one will dispute that there are certain resource improvements also in the New Secondary Schools. Only then does it not help to act as if this were the goal – this is another problem whose solution is still in place. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Between goals!]] Well, parts. You've really differentiated it. Sometimes it's different. But there are points that are not so positive in the case of Weitem. I can still remember the subcommittees under Minister Gehrer. They suffered from the fact that the minister did not come. And the subcommittees now at the teaching committee, if they have taken place – it is somehow also a very poor form – have not really improved. [[Abg. Amon: They always fail at the opposition!]] I would like a Minister of Education, a Minister of Education to be present to the Committee's subcommittees and to be able to hold the discussions there in such a way that the need for reform can also be discussed with the Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the point I cannot understand at all, Mr Amon: People's desires. If I have understood correctly, you have made it clear today that the ÖVP will oppose the use of its own committee – in a popular desire, which concerns at least three sites, if you really consider it: of course, the school, of course, the science department and, if you want to, the family resort, because the questions concerning kindergarten are included. [[Abg. Amon: The financial resort too! Four!]] – Yes, it’s wonderful when it’s more. That is why this proposal has been made. And I also consider the interest of those who have initiated this popular desire to make a joint committee entitled so that we do not have the absurd situation of having to discuss science in the teaching committee, or in the subcommittee of the teaching committee. What's that supposed to make sense? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You know, I would also like the responsible ministers to come to the committee. It will happen exactly the same thing: Neither the Minister of Science will occur nor the Minister of Science – I hope that you will be relatively intensively represented there. [[Abg. Amon: You have Hellenic skills!]] – Well, then make a promise that the ministers will come! Otherwise, it is all the more absurd to form a subcommittee of the teaching committee and to discuss topics that fall into completely different areas. Any form of a serious parliamentary debate would be required to make a committee of its own on such a cross-border issue. And this refusal of you is to be regarded as pure shock and nothing at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Yeah, it's wonderful. Explain this to all those who then come and request that we talk to the appropriate ministers. The EIA will say: No, we're walling, as usual. New builder will throw the concrete, and the story will be finished. 2018/19, has colleague Gessl-Ranftl, I think, will complete the development of the New Secondary School. It may be. In 2018/19, many parents, just as we did in the family two years ago, will stand there and face the question: What does my child do in the 4th century? Great folk school? . Just before this question, where you know exactly that this is a very striking experience, that this is a very heavy burden for families, that the problems occur there. Unfortunately, this question will exist in 2018/19, if it continues to exist, de facto to a similar extent to that which has existed so far. And this is also the problem we see and where, I believe, all who are serious about international developments will see that the question of social selection is very much related to the timing of this separation. Now you can talk about the improvements in detail. But that is of course something that remains and which is still open and should be improved. Mrs Franz, it would have been interesting to say to your educational speaker from Vorarlberg. You scratched the curve elegantly. That the Vorarlberger ÖVP is obviously willing to discuss a common school, or to take action, would also be a possibility to distance itself from the federal line a little. There are apparently model models. Perhaps we have to wait ten more years now – or: Gehrer was until 2006, as long as this has not yet been done, so good five years now the change is back. There may still be prospects that in the next five to ten years there will be some further breakup. I'd like to. This would have earned the school in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34921	Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34942	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We have already decided in July 2011 a collection haven for school day care here in Parliament. It comprises an annual cost of €80 million, which the Federal Government invests for the expansion of day care in compulsory schools and AHS. It is distributed through the federal states, which are also responsible for the access of the funds to the municipalities. A total of € 320 million will be available in Austria by 2014/15. This contribution gives the municipalities substantial support from the federal government, which also enables this expansion of quality care. In its government programme, the Federal Government has set itself the goal of expanding school courses all day long, and I believe that one of the most important educational assignments is an individual promotion of students. A well-founded general education and personality education should be the basis for young people that their lives can succeed well. And also the high amounts spent by parents for recovery should be reduced; not to mention the better reconciliation of family and work for parents as a very important aspect. I believe that the whole day school provides a larger timeframe and more opportunities for comprehensive education. The result will be a restriction of learning and promotion offers with sports and leisure opportunities for all those who also use cultural services – and not only for students of those private schools who have always had afternoon support in their offer. We are working on creating equal opportunities. Each child should have the same opportunity to be promoted according to his talents and not according to the income of his parents. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Donate.]] Essentially, the right to education is for every person. Finally, education is also a key to combating poverty. We have the duty to create the best possible conditions for children to be supported and promoted in their thirst for knowledge and ability and not assessed according to their weaknesses. Thanks to Minister Schmied and to all those who are working with consequence on the reform of the education system and who have taken the path of the New Middle School, a wide range of all day classes and schools, to the common school as far as possible. Almost 400 000 Austrians have supported with their voice the demand for reforms in education, and I think these are also serious. Slighter school administration, yes, but we will also need appropriate investment in the future area of education. In the sense of distribution justice, new revenue will be necessary. We will therefore continue to confirm the demand for a millionaire tax.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e34993	Mr Petzner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35015	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps you remember, a few days ago, great media spirited that a edition of Franz Kafka’s novel “The Castle” was sent to schools with 1 850 spelling errors and that this was a supported EU project. Great noise in the leaf forest, strong criticism of the European Union as well. - Listen, Mr. Katzian! – Now it turned out, it was all a fake. There is a group called “The BirdBase”, which, as an action group, paid this €2,000 – 150 people who took this money into their hands – and these misguided books with the 1, 850 spelling errors – Franz Kafka would certainly have liked that – to the schools. Why did they do that? – Because, like many other initiatives in Austria, they wanted to express how they explained today that something has to change in the education system. I'm allowed to quote: “Because if nothing changes, perhaps in 20 years such books will be the normal case,” said this group, consisting of 150 people, today. What do I want to say with this narrative and with this example? – Today it has been said several times that one is proud of the ÖVP. I, ladies and gentlemen, am not proud of the Austrian People's Party because, for 40 years, we have prevented any reform in the field of education and today we are in favour of it. 40 years of prevention of the New Secondary School, then it is not a reason to congratulate, not to be proud, but rather to be ashamed and to question one's own position why one is celebrating something today and commending what has prevented you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, for more than 40 years, thus preventing a reform of the education system, which has made school life difficult for many students. [[OBJECTIVES]] There is no reason to be proud, but, as has already been said today, you should look at Germany, at your sister party CDU, which has been more advanced at its recent party meeting than the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. The figures show that money is not the main problem or the big problem, but the use of money. According to an OECD comparison, we have the fifth largest school system. We are also not so bad in the area of teacher remuneration, apart from the entry salaries that are too low. According to a report from the EU Commission, Austria with Denmark and Luxembourg is one of those countries that count as a whole, with the allowances that the highest teachers pay on the European average. That means that this is not the problem, the problem is the structure, the problem is the administration, the problem is that the money does not come where it is supposed to arrive, in the classroom. This use of money needs to be improved, as it has already been mentioned. Finally, the reform of the school administration is also to be addressed: the abolition of the district school councils, the elimination of the national school councils, which are not necessary in this bloated form. I trust to bet, in 30 years, the ÖVP stands here after it has blocked it for another 20 years, and can be celebrated for the abolition of district school councils. Do it today! Don't leave yourself for 30 years again, like at the New Middle School! Austria, the educational country Austria no longer has this time. We can no longer wait for the Austrian People's Party, the students can no longer wait, but we now need a comprehensive reform, including in the school administration, in the education system. [[OBJECTIVES]] Look at the PISA study, look at the numbers, then recognize this need for reform as well! Take a look at the current budget, on which Mrs Federal Ministers in the Committee also stated that 94 percent of the total budget costs, the total cost of the education system, are exclusively fixed costs – for staff, for administration, for rents et cetera. That is, to open up resources here so that they can actually reach the pupils, in the classroom, in the pedagogy, that must be our task, and that is, I believe, also in the interest of all those who want us to be in the field of education in the future – Austria is not a country with oil treasures or anything else, but our potential is education, trained people – the improvements that are needed at last reach. Our education spokesperson Ursula Haubner has already mentioned the many examples, from teacher training to aptitude tests, which we believe are necessary, to a reorientation of the ninth school level, as far as vocational orientation is concerned, et cetera. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! That means: Do not wait 30 years again, but now, together with us – this is an invitation – and with the Minister of Education, continue the reforms in the field of education for the future of this country and, above all, the young people of that country! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35087	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35108	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated visitors! The education budget of just over €8 billion brings additional opportunities, enables new ones and creates prospects for the future. Mrs Bundesminister, you mentioned today that, in particular, the school infrastructure in rural regions represents an increased cost factor. – We are very grateful for this because I believe that many villages are now living from a school. The school is a reserve and a basis for many regions, and that is why I believe that this money is well invested. I can only appeal that the school administration and the school partnership work with the communities in the future. They all put on a lot of power and money, and if you look at how great schools work in rural regions, you have to say that is the right way. Mr Brosz, I think you did not understand our colleagues Amon, because of course we accept the popular desire for education. We will actively cooperate, and together we will be able to implement and develop the positive things contained in it. We are discussing this here in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Austria's expenditure per student is in the leading field. Our mission and our goal must be to use this money specifically, especially in times when we need to save and pay attention to where we use the money. I think we need improvements in school management, in the school administration, and in this area there are many key points that this budget includes, for example, the expansion of day care, the continuation of the reduction of the maximum number of students, the expansion of migration/integration and, of course, the promotion of language, which is important as a key to integration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For me, it is also important to re-acquisition of educational qualifications and the implementation of the standardized competence-oriented maturity examinations in the AHS and mature and diploma examinations in the BHS. I have also tried the project To accompany new secondary school, which will continue to receive a lot of feedback. From my point of view, the New Secondary School is not an attempt at school, as Mr Rosenkranz wished, but rather a model that has been implemented. There's already been enough attempts, I think it's about time we put this model into practice. It is also not that the “New Secondary School” represents only a change of name or a change of name, but there are six additional hours, there are new requirements and challenges for teachers. I can confirm from my own experience that everyone is required to compete in the urban area, of course, unlike in the rural regions, because there is a competition between gymnasium and primary school there. But this model is a huge chance to further develop and further improve the primary schools. The primary schools are a good basis for all of us, so I welcome the fact that we are taking this clear path. We have a choice between two models, we do not have an overall school and no one-way school, and I think many people wish for this freedom of choice. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Is the school a one-way?]] – No, the folk school is not one-way. In the school process there are many building blocks, and, Mr Walser, it is now about putting these building blocks together well. It is a matter of performing an overall sense of responsibility – starting from the parents' home to the school and into the professional life. You can't see that in isolation. From my point of view, I can say that we have taken a good course. There is still much to do, but with the New Secondary School, I think, we have a model that brings us on and lets us achieve the goals of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35166	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35187	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Education is a major challenge, a major challenge for all of us who are responsible in politics and who are involved in politics. The education budget has been increased. My colleague, Mr Ursula Haubner, has highlighted the positive aspects of this budget. There are positive approaches that we naturally support and welcome, but there are also many things that have not yet been done, which I would like to express once again, which are very important to us. The reform of the school administration has addressed almost all my previous speakers. A uniform right of service and remuneration, the uniform teacher training, even for kindergarten teachers, are very important to us, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I therefore cannot understand, especially since there is such a great consensus in it – including Mr Gahr of the ÖVP, in his remarks, that he will be committed to the content of the educational people's desire or for its implementation – why, for years and decades, you have been simply blocking from the ÖVP in education policy, ladies and gentlemen! - Yeah, nothing goes on. [[Abg. Amon: Go!]] It's like that, you're blocking and emphasizing! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let me talk briefly about the educational people's desire. 383 820 Austrians have signed this popular desire educational initiative. I too am one of them, I have also signed this popular desire. I have made use of this democratic right, not least because many points of the BZÖ education programme have been incorporated into this popular desire and we can also identify with many of the points contained therein, ladies and gentlemen. In general, however, I would like to say that the instrument requires a reform of popular desire that the popular desire for a modern democracy be adapted. I would therefore like to recall the proposal made by our clubman and consort Josef Bucher, who presented an Internet popular desire. I believe that we should deal with this already, and we should discuss it. On the one hand, it would be easier to initiate a popular desire, to collect the 8 032 signatures required via the Internet, and on the other hand to overcome much less obstacles if one wanted to support a popular desire. You don't have to look at the opening hours of the registration sites, you don't have to show a card, you don't have to go up about 28 floors, which is almost impossible for older, more sick or more fragile people in particular. So all these obstacles would fall away. I believe that this would also be an important step towards modernisation and towards more direct democracy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another requirement that implies this Internet popular desire, in addition to the treatment in Parliament of 100 000 supporters, is: From 400,000 signatorys there will be a mandatory referendum, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Thus, every voice would really be twice as important, because then it would really have to be implemented, what is demanded in popular desire, what has been signed. This will probably not be the case with the desire for education. But the 383,820 Austrians will certainly follow very closely what happens to the demands from popular desire in Parliament. I am not very confident that much will happen because – mainly – the ÖVP will block, colleague Amon! In conclusion, I would like to follow Mrs Schmied's words, which I very much liked, namely: Whatever you want to do, do it soon! – In this sense: Let us do it soon, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: There's nothing good except you do it!]] Dear Martin Bartenstein, yell and do it in the sense of Austrian education policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35255	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35277	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Amon, it has already been in the debate several times, you are the blockers. So I cannot sign this, because I believe that what has already been said in the debate today is right. In many areas, compromises are found, solutions are available to be implemented as a government party. I think that's a good thing. The accusation in your direction, Mr Amon, is therefore not correct in my sense in the form of how he has been articulated. - So much for it. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Elmar Mayer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the 2012 budget estimate. If one asks where no budget resources should be cut or where, as I mean, many say, rightly: Not in education! I would now like to recall the reform steps that have already been taken in the debate today and, above all, to invite you to think back briefly with me. For example, ten years ago, who of us MEPs would have meant trying to see the kindergarten as an educational institution and reform it in this direction, to have fewer children in the classes, to extend school day care, to promote language courses, to upgrade the primary school to the New Middle School, to make educational standards, to make quality checks, to reorganise Matura, to try out high-level course systems, and then to implement a modularization, to conduct a study selection counseling in the last grade of the upper level, to rethink a teacher's education with Matura? 7 700 young people already benefit from this offer, 12.4 million are budgeted for it. Would it have been possible ten years ago to address all these points, to implement, to plan and to find majority voting for them? – I think that would probably have been presented as utopia at the time. Time has become another, so today we are doing easier in these areas. One thing I might want to repeat very briefly on the subject of education qualifications. Some things are happening in this area now, and I would like to point out that we may also be doing well – especially with regard to the issue of the shortage of skilled workers – to ensure that we can also provide vocational schools as educational institutions for the resurgence of qualifications, in particular teaching qualifications, on board, so that vocational schools are also allowed to provide support when it comes to re-acquiring apprenticeships. Unfortunately, this is not possible at the moment. There are many examples that show that we are continuing with the reforms, and above all these examples there is a name, Claudia Schmied. This must also be said clearly on a day like today when we are discussing the educational budget. The reform move is on the move. It is now about keeping him on the move not only, but also speeding up as far as possible, and this is also what the Socialist Group in this House stands for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35334	Mr Huainigg has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35355	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! There are 27 000 children in Austria with special educational needs. 50 percent of these go to integration classes, 50 percent attend a special school. Of all students in Austria, only 1 per cent are “inhibited” – under quotation marks – but the special school attends 3 to 6 per cent; It's 6 percent in Vienna. Another number also says that it is very questionable for very many children why they attend the special school. These are those with migration backgrounds. 28 percent of all special students have a migration background, and this also means that they come to the special school only because they can get German badly because they come from a more remote layer. That is why this system is very questionable; in my opinion, it has survived anyway. But that doesn't mean we don't need special school teachers anymore. We still need them more than ever, but we need to pool the resources. Both systems are no longer financially and portable. Both systems complain about savings and cost deficits. It would therefore be much more sensible, and then I appeal that the resources be pooled into school integration, into inclusion. That would make sense, that should be done. I would ask you to take this into account in the National Action Plan, which is being drawn up. Another point concerns school integration after the eighth level. There is a good draft for this. This is important, and it would be equally important to involve not only the ninth level, but also the middle schools. I have written the agricultural schools and the countries and I can say that there is a great willingness to participate in the involvement of the agricultural schools, which are practical. It would also be important for other schools, where there have already been attempts at school, such as commercial schools, to be included. That would therefore be my further concern: to include the schools of commerce and the schools of agriculture and also to start school trials in other schools. My last wish – it's Christmas soon, because you can want something – would be that you can also teach disabled teachers as well as attend the educational college. It is a gain when a teacher who is deaf teaches deaf children in his language, in the sign language. That motivates the children, that strengthens them, that gives them future visions. Or: Why should not a teacher be blind or sit in the wheelchair? In many classes there are also two teachers, such as in the New Middle School. This is simply a field of work that should also be open to disabled people. The school system and disabled children would benefit from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35395	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35416	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many important areas of the education budget have already been discussed. New secondary school, smaller classes, reform of the upper level, Matura New, teaching with Matura and the like – we see a very dedicated and ambitious program for the next time. What is also constantly being worked on is to reduce the number of early schooling and training drop-offs. Every seventh young European/seventh young European leaves the education system without graduation, which is about 6.4 million school leavers in Europe. Austria has a very good value at 8.3 percent and is therefore also below the EU's average value. This is gratifying because we know that school dropout is directly related to youth unemployment and that school dropouts also have problems in their future lives. They are, for example, weak or very often socially excluded. However, the low value of Austria is still far too high, considering what problems these young people, their parents and society have in their future lives. Young people should therefore be kept in the education and training system as long as possible. An important measure to prevent a demolition is a project which is also on the agenda for the next years, namely a very good, improved consistent professional orientation. Many decisions on how the further training plan should look are influenced by the family and do not always conform to the talents and abilities of young people. That is why it is so important to enable a good professional orientation. There will be offers, expert offers, often involving parents, which is very important. In some areas this is already being worked on; especially at the New Middle School these projects are running. I believe that this is an important point in facilitating our young people's entry into the labour market in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35453	Now comes Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35475	Madam President. High House, especially ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You can break this budget, these budget items education and education, numbers You will not succeed in dissuading this success of the Federal Government, especially in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government has shown – in this area and in many other areas too – that the issue of education and education is very important to it – it is a topic of the future – and it has not saved in this area despite a busy budget situation known to you as well. On the contrary: The two Federal Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Schmied and Fekter, succeeded in strengthening this area, not only symbolically, but also with an amount of proud € 313 million. With this money much can be moved – and it also does a lot of things, as the Federal Minister in her folder, which we have been sent to, also does. I can bring you – especially the opposition – further to what will happen with this money: We are expanding the New Secondary School, we are reducing the maximum number of students to 25, the promotion of language is extended, the full day care is extended, and the reorganisation of the teacher's right is also addressed. All this – all the money that is spent here for our children, for our students, also for teachers, so that we have a good education – is a very good proof of the very good work of the Federal Government in this field. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One point which my previous speaker has already mentioned and which is also very dear to my heart is the area of vocational orientation. For me, the main question now is not, in particular, whether the common school should take place for up to ten, twelve or 14 years, but for me personally, it is equally important, if not more important, that we offer a good professional orientation in schools. So far, this takes place by means of binding exercises in the seventh and eighth school level, to varying degrees and in different quality, unfortunately often only integrative. This requires a higher level of professionalism, and this is also used in the training of professional orientation teachers, who are currently taking place in different quality. There are good examples: For example, there is a specific training course, which takes one to two years, which can now be visited voluntarily, so do not have to be, and there would be a first step, I think, that we are starting compulsory training in this area, because it cannot be said that the educators have no knowledge of how I was told by a manager of a large Tyrolean company, who was present at a vocational orientation seminar yesterday and who gave a lecture to 40 teachers there, and who came to this conclusion in the discussion, because, unfortunately, the educators, also because of a lack of practice in the economy, do not know what training opportunities there are in the whole range, for example, in the retail sector. My proposal would be to complete compulsory training in this respect, to complete compulsory economic practice and also to integrate vocational orientation into the timetable. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35532	Mrs Ablinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35555	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to mention two things. First of all, I find the 400 000 signatures of the educational people's desire as great support and as a backwind – and that's not about the question of privilege or not, but I always think this is a backwind. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] That you have a problem with this, Mr Commissioner, when we talk about the common school, I already know what my logic does not reveal, however, that is that, as Mr Gahr said, the common school is a one-way school, and thus does not mean that it is not the folk school. So the school for children from six to ten years of age is not a one-way school, but the common school for children from ten years of age suddenly begins to become a single-breed – that doesn't matter to my logic! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's the problem!]] I would now like to focus on something that Mrs Franzges said in connection with the fact that performance and competition must take place in school. Now I'm telling you something as a mother of an adult son: I can still remember exactly how it was in the third, fourth folk school when it came to my son having a loud one – he wanted it on his own – so that he could go to the gymnasium, because that was the border at the time. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's not the point! But that's the wrong way!]] - That's what it was! They know that this was exactly the same and that this great performance has a impact on children in the form of stress, anxiety at such an early age, and that only in order to be able to go to gymnasium. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Yes, that will have him!]] If one says that performance and competition must have a place in school, then one must also see what dramatic effects this can have on children if they are only assessed according to these competitive characteristics. - So much for it. I am therefore looking forward to an active discussion in January in connection with the educational people's desire. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35645	This is what Mr Prince has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35666	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Investment in education is investment in the future. We thus ensure our prosperity and social cohesion in society. In addition, every euro invested in education increases the attractiveness of our country in terms of the economic, employment and research location. In the 2012 budget, the high level of educational expenditure could be kept despite savings targets and needs. This debate is not only about how much it is, but also about what the money is used for – after all, the taxpayers' money is supposed to arrive at the knowledge transfer rather than in the bureaucracy. For the time being, however, I would like to use this debate to give teachers their daily commitment to schools, but also to their patience and high levels of education. Awareness of responsibility to our children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All of this is not self-evident, and on the one hand, it takes a lot of knowledge, but also sensitivity and fingertips to successfully practice the profession of a teacher or a teacher. Therefore: Thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Renewal in the school system is necessary to meet the changes in society and the changing needs of students, teachers and parents. In the field of education, it is important to be at the heart of time. And our dual education system can be seen – and this is proved by OECD indicators 2011 – in comparison with other countries, then we are in the front third again and again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not only in comparison with the indicators, but also in terms of educational expenditure, we are at the forefront, for example, we have higher expenditure than Germany or Finland. Nevertheless, there is a need for reform! We want to continue this process of reform specifically and responsibly in the coming year. With the gradual expansion of the New Middle School and the development of the modular upper level, the school system is placed on modern but proven feet. The differentiated school system, which is adapted to the needs and needs of the individual student, but also to the parents, remains fully preserved – and I think that is, as the cutting off of the educational population shows, also in the sense of the Austrians – because it is about quality in education and above all about freedom of choice and permeability in the system. We'll get all of this, and that's good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to appeal to the parents, because politics sets out various tools – saying: Possibilities – available, but ultimately, the school cannot replace that if perhaps the support is not given in the parents' home. We need parents who are concerned about the desires, desires, but also the problems of their children, and who are willing to support this course of training and the development of their children to independent and mature adults accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35742	Mr Mayer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35773	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to focus on two points, because I notice that this is also important in everyday school – education is decided here, but it is lived outside the schools. What we are going to pass on is also what is the decisive impulse. That is why I would really like to thank the BZÖ representatives, especially Ursula Haubner, but also Stefan Petzner, for his commitment to participate in the problems that exist. [[Admissibility with SPÖ and BZÖ.]] I am pleased that the Green Group too is slowly holding back this and that everything is only bad-making at last. I believe that the Commissioner Rosary is the in vain tiredness of love. I know from Vorarlberg – since the generation change from Gorbach to Egger has also taken place – that the Landle Blues have long been there for doing a common school because they know how important that is. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Just the one who knows how important this is!]] It is now also happening at the ÖVP a break in the country: Head of State Sausgruber agrees, there is a new generation coming. We've already heard: In the largest market municipality in Austria, in Lustenau, there is a rethinking in progress. I mean, that's a good signal. Vorarlberg was the first federal country – many have criticized this a little – that has introduced the New Secondary School across the board. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] And what comes from this plant New secondary school? – Suddenly all around Bregenzerwaldergemeinde and now a Lustenauer ÖVP mayor and countryman: We want to develop this to the common school! I think that's what our minister used to say: We want to break down to this step to increase the chances of secondary schooling. We want to see this as the next step so that we can get to what we all want, and that is the common school. – And I mean, the developments we have seen so far confirm us in it, and I believe the way we are going is good. But the school needs optimism. Sick talk is fucking contagious! Don't do this constantly, like a few tired AHS tradesmen who believe they have to take care of the content too! Don't do that, because school needs optimism, and we have to carry it out together! Everything else is bad. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35854	No one is reporting on this. [[15:52:01]] UG 30: Art and culture
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35876	We now come to the debate on breakdown 30: Art and culture. The first is Mrs Mag. Inconsistency. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e35900	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mrs. Minister, now as Minister of Culture! Cultural policy is not decoration, not ornament. It is the foundation on which our societies rest. – I know I keep saying that again and again, but I think that is important, because that is important because it is also important to set values in this respect. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Art and culture make a decisive contribution to the identity of the individual and the community. We liberals therefore say again and again: The preservation of our identity is the subject of our conscience! And if I remember what has been said here in the last three years on cultural policy, then I can say that we are the only party here that places great importance on our cultural heritage: our values, traditions, ideas, customs, customs, our language and religion – and we also want to pass it on to generations that are not destroyed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 455 million €, i.e. 0.6 percent of the total budget, are available for the year 2012 of culture, and this budget belongs wisely and wisely used, i.e., does not promote parallel societies – people who migrate have to integrate – no money for state artists who can pay for their rich lifestyle at the expense of the general public. We do not need any cultural strizzis that abuse and rework large cultural institutions for their ideological style of play. You can still remember the former director of MAK Peter Noever, who – and the Greens have also taken this up – also celebrated parties for his mother in the institution, or Gerald Matt – you all know him, who also gets money from the Federation – who also misuses the art hall for his ideological games. There are arfluent state artists who receive proud amounts annually – and you can read it – such as Thomas Glavinic – year after year, please, 8,000 € – so that his trips to Cuba and Rome are financed, or Egypt Gstättner, who annually for his factory scholarships and computers – annually, please! – €4,000, or Robert Menasse for his translation activities. These are arfluent artists, these are not young students who need the money! – We reject that! And we've been pointing that out for years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead, we believe that money must flow where cohesion and stability are strengthened. And there is reform. Mrs Minister, I think you are ignoring our constructive and good ideas. For years I have been pointing to the construction site in the museum area – we have discussed this more often here. They all know that the concept “Museum New” has failed. And it was also a serious mistake from your predecessor, Mrs. Gehrer, that she had the Museum of Art and History run only as a sub-division of the Art History Museum, and it would be up to you, Mrs. Minister, to make up for this mistake – and you had had enough time to do it. I must accuse you that you are acting too little! Just as little do I think it is right that the Volkskundemuseum – the largest in Europe – is fed down with €400 000. I don't think that's all right either. And for years I have also been pointing to the problems of music schools. I know it's always said that this is country matter, but I can't let that apply, because Austria is the music country bad. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Austria is famous for its music, and if there are not enough places in the country of music Austria for children who want to learn a musical instrument, then a national action plan needs to be made. You can't just leave it that way! We are the music country of the world: We have the world's best orchestra, I say – actually the world's best orchestra – the best opera houses. Yes, how should young people come from if we don't start with the children?- Oh, my God! And for years I have been pointing out the lack of care of our language. Especially you, as Minister of Education – in this case it is very good that you bear responsibility for both areas, namely for education and art and culture – should feel particularly responsible here, because it is important to limit the flood of anglicism in politics, in the media and in the economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have often talked about this in committee. I could row an English word to the other for hours here, and I think that's a sign that one disregards one's own language. These anglicisms are finally abolished. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why I'm making the following request – it's a shame that you have to make such a request at all, but it's true: – I'm not saying "cutter calculator". [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Oils: (keeping a laptop in height) How should one say to the thing?]] I don't want to let myself in on a few words. You know exactly what I meant, so don't try to challenge me right now! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, Mr President, especially in the language of politics, how should I say? – you have to look at the people. As far as the language of politics is concerned, you have to look, you have to hear and feel what the people think, and you also have to speak the language of the people. Mrs. Minister, look at our opposition work as a constructive work! They have been able to pursue us and me in the last three years. We see ourselves as a guide, a signpost, and you have also said today that you respect the other political groups before cooperation. - I'm very glad. And I also remember the sentence you said – you quoted Beethoven –: “What you want to do is do it soon!” – I liked it, and I would be glad if you would become active in this sense now.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36017	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36090	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36117	Dear colleague Wolfgang Zinggl, if you want to be a pro speaker: No problem! - Oh, you can't say that now. No problem, Come out! – Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we have good cooperation in the Cultural Committee, but there are simply fundamental differences between the cultural understanding that FPÖ has and that which we have. We have tried more often to explain to you how this is with the identity – I simply give up on the issue of exclusion mechanisms. I don't think that makes sense. Despite this, the climate in the Committee on Culture is at least rich and constructive, even though one can see that one has different positions in the field of cultural policy. To the budget itself: In any case, the budget remained at the same level as in the previous year. And the projects we have undertaken are also financially secured, such as the projects of participation and mediation. Among other things, this includes securing free entry. It is not essential to mention that through this free Since then, 24 percent more children and young people or 920,000 more young people under the age of 19 have visited museums. Or there is also the project “Art Makes School”. We are strengthening the film with increases and have just jointly established the digitalisation project, as has been said, without the participation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But that's an essential contribution. Or the new book promotion, which is secured and which shows that increased funding and the target standards contribute to the quality assurance of public libraries. With a common plan, we also want to promote the comprehensive expansion of the libraries and first of all want to get a clear and well-founded overview of the distribution, the stocks, the usage of the public libraries. As part of the promotion of young people, we have a number of scholarships with which we support young artists. All these projects of the Government Convention are financially secured and at least guaranteed. But I'm right for the Federal Minister when she says, just like she did recently, that we need a call for the cultural budget. Of course, cultural policy concerns distribution issues, political distribution issues. And here we see that for many projects and for many essential projects or for permanent financing of art and culture, the funds are not enough, but it is essential to formulate that. If we want to continue to set accents in art and culture, we need more resources, and we need to intensify the discourse now. If we speak the word of freedom and uphold the freedom of art, then we emphasize that it is also a responsibility and therefore also a commitment to public funding that it should not be as if artists were beggars or as if the state were something like a man. It is a question of confessing to this and using vehemence for economic support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not only about the questions of the basic fee or the increase of this basic fee for museums and theatres, but also about the promotion of contemporary art or cultural initiatives. If we can understand that contemporary art has the potential – as Helene Schnitzer puts it – to break up the traditions and the To design the future and thus challenge society as a whole, we must carefully consider and discuss what measures we are developing to promote and promote regional cultural initiatives and cultural projects, as we thus, with very concrete funding, for example, ensure diversity. If cultural initiatives with their projects contribute exactly when they invite them to participate, with various forms also contributing to versatility, then it is essential that we consider, for example, whether we are discussing special budgets, setting up special budgets with a focus on how we can set positive developments in motion. I would also like to mention future rural projects: E-libraries. We know that there are currently a number of e-libraries in some capitals, so you can borrow e-books. But there is no Austrian offer. This would be a way of financing a central e-library publicly and thus enabling the dissemination of books in places that do not have a library or a bookstore at their disposal. This would be a great leap in the supply of literature and information. For example, the digitization of museums and their stocks. It has already started in part, but it also needs public support, because publicly funded knowledge needs to be made available to all, so that knowledge, texts and file stocks do not slumber there, but so that we can open up the doors and allow knowledge first, generate and promote new discoveries. There too, a special fund could be considered to promote digitalisation projects. You see, this is a whole series of projects that we should now discuss for new negotiations, because in art we do not all go out of imagination. The wish list is long, and we don't want to slow down. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36206	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36227	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Ablinger, is perfectly right. In the end, it's about distribution. And one thing you can already find out: While the healing, chic art world is very happy to celebrate at various festivals and at openings of new art houses themselves, the conditions for very, very many in the cultural field are getting worse. Especially among the cultural producers, we have deteriorations year after year, which make them slumber into the precariat. Culture, Mrs Minister, affects us all, especially those who do their work away from the lights – and this work is often nothing worse than those of those who are in the spotlight. In the first, displeasure is growing, even though this may not happen so often in the newspapers. But it's always more common, we've already found that. And let's be honest: Cultural policy takes very little care of these people, rather focuses on the highly painted Cadillacs and on the great, representative gestures. I am not yet talking about those living under the poverty line. Since the report on the social situation of artists, we know that these are very, very many and far too many, and that the Federal Government has promised something, the So far it has not been observed, namely to develop plans for how they are to be picked up. - That's one. In the meantime, I am already talking about the medium-sized institutions, which are also under-dated and are also cracking. And I can't see any course correction at all, Mrs. Minister. On the contrary! It may be that this new museum of the 21st century. Yesterday, in the first century, the opening brought great joy – in the short term, I say now, because the cat spirit will surely follow. I'm absolutely convinced of that. Yesterday we had the discussion on the debt brake – and at the same time we have adopted a budget accompanying law that will provide € 2 million more for this facility. Let's take a look at this from the Belvedere, where this museum of the 21st century is. It's part of the 19th century. In 2006, the Belvedere, i.e. the Austrian gallery, had a further € 4.5 million annual subsidy and five years later € 9 million annual subsidy, i.e. a doubling or, for the year, 20 percent annually. Believe me, I am certainly the first to find it useful when there is more money for art and culture and when something is opened up, but we must already consider whether these funds are actually used in times of saving and covering the budgets. - Well, you're gonna say what do you want me to do? Now we have rehabilitated this House and now we must also finance the ongoing operation over many, many years, probably when it goes on for centuries. But let us consider whether the money could not have been used differently! Perhaps another house for contemporary art would not have been necessary. We already have five in Vienna. And in Austria? – I don't want to count that! Perhaps an institution for intercultural discussions, i.e. this museum of cultures, which has also been supported here in Parliament, would have been a more meaningful institution. But that's on another sheet. The chronology of the renovation of the 21st house is also quite interesting. They say: Now we have rehabilitated it, now we have to finance it in terms of current operations. But in 2006 it was said that the renovation would cost €11 million and of which €4 million will be taken over by the federal government, the rest will be set up by private individuals. Meanwhile, the museum has cost €31 million, €28 million of which the federal government takes over, and the other €3 million are not really private, anyway I haven't heard of it yet. So now you can ask yourself: Did no one in 2006 know what this renovation is going to cost, or have you been deceived? I don't know. And the second: Why is private sponsors constantly spoken of if they are not available at the end? First of all, we have more and more cultural institutions that crack, who do not know how to pay rents and wages due to inflation and who do not receive payments. Secondly, we have missing facilities, example: Museum of Cultures, and at the same time funds for representative houses are increased. So that's a strange cultural policy that I don't think is right. In the Committee on Culture you have spoken about what preferences you would like to put in the cultural field, if the budgets remain the same, in other words, with a word when they really go back – someone has to pay it then, somehow the wrong amount has to be compensated –: Of the preferences The federal institutions, that is, the Bundestheater and Bundesmuseen, come first and foremost the foundations such as the Josefstadt and the Salzburg Festival, thirdly your participations, i.e. federal participations, any associations such as the Theater der Jugend. – You can already calculate what will never happen, what will come under the wheels: These are the many institutions throughout Austria that ultimately make up the culture. I ask you again today: What cultural plans do you have in case the budgets remain constant in case there are real declines due to inflation? Where will you be cut? And this probability is relatively high. You'll have to say that sometime. You always say you don't want a distribution discussion, but we're already in the middle of the distribution discussion. I am glad that Mrs Ablinger has already recognized this. In the Committee on Budgets, you said that the valorization of the large houses was not a matter. But if you do not valorize the big houses, they will be on the mat with you and say we cannot fulfill the legal order. However, you do not want to reduce the legal mandate – which was also my question in the Budget Committee. Somehow this doesn't go out front and back. I am convinced that when they stand with you, together with the media and the “pageviews”, they will get their inflation rate. As inflation is going to be very expensive, the money will be missing somewhere, and I know where it will be missing. This is not only unfair, it is centralized and is not diverse, that is, it is against any kind of cultural diversity. I hope we think together about how we can change this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36309	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36331	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Zinggl, listening to you this way, one has the impression – if you speak of the great cultural institutions as a large tanker, as a heavy dinosaur – that you feel that our federal museums and our federal theatre are something bad. I don't know if it was your intention or your goal to give this impression, but you get this impression. This is a pity because especially Austria, as a cultural nation, lives of its musicians, of the Philharmonics, who also often stand in your cross fire, of the Volksoper, of the State Opera, of the museums that have international rank and recognition. This is also the reputation that Austria has as a cultural nation. I don't think you can put that in a bad light. I would also like to have said that here. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Very right! Very right!]] Although I am of the opinion and believe that, together with the Minister of Social Affairs, Mrs Bundesminister has only recently done a lot to support the individual artists who are in distress. But one concludes from my point of view, and so is my cultural-political understanding, the other is not excluded. The fact that you focus on second is recognizable, but I would nevertheless think that we should distance ourselves from dissuading cultural policy, especially the cultural budget, because one, as you said, is just a continuation of the cultural budget in times like this one is a great achievement. The Federal Minister must also take this into account. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Petzner.]] The fact that this federal government has decided to do so – for the time being, for the time being – not to cut down on cultural matters, especially, is not a matter of course in times like this. This also does not necessarily apply to the understanding of every citizen and citizen. Ask people on the street outside of Austria in which area they think should be saved. In the Committee on Culture itself, the Minister also said with horror that this is often the answer: culture. That we as a cultural politician see this differently is quite clear. But all the more we need to do persuasive work. The fact that we are also concerned with turning every euro twice, for example, has proved this with a large project of the last year, namely with the evaluation of the Bundestheater. Notable experts have worked very hard to analyze where to create potential from an economic point of view. After all, the Bundestheater-Holding has also been examined. I would like to thank you here for the really good cooperation with the Federal Minister, but also with the holding director, Dr. Springer. Now the result is on the table, a catalogue of measures to save about €2.5 million. That is, I think, quite a demanding result, knowing that it is not about taking away the money from stage societies, but about putting this money on stage and investing in the program. I also invite all the representatives of the opposition to join the next Cultural Committee on 14. It is precisely this discussion that is to be held on December. Mr. Dr. Springer will be present. We can discuss his proposals calmly and thoroughly. If we succeed – I look forward to this – we can also decide in Bälde on the revision of the Federal Theatre Organisation Act, which is about ensuring, under the word “Corporate Governance”, that the responsibilities are clarified better, that the holding is strengthened, but that it is also precisely defined, which is the rights and obligations of the Supervisory Boards. Mr Zinggl, this is my understanding of cultural policy, namely the framework conditions for our Federal Theatre, for the Federal Museums, but also for small initiatives, for the individual artist/individual artist in order to make cultural works in Austria best possible. We have not managed everything so far, but we have still open construction sites, for example, when I think of the public service sector, where we have, at least in the government programme, integrated an increase in teaching. With united forces, I'm sure we'll succeed. We have done this with united forces, for example, in the anchoring of the film/TV agreement. The film is important to us in this Parliament, as is music. For example, when it comes to bringing young people, children, to music in schools, it will be up to us to make proposals, to enable the networking of music schools and schools. So you see, these are all construction sites, these are plans we have, where it is about constructively implementing them now. Not everything you can solve creatively, food-tet money. Much of it costs money, we make it available. And hopefully we decide on Friday. I mean, we can be very happy with what's going on. I would ask that we continue to maintain the constructive dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36375	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36397	Madam President. Federal Minister! Maybe I can start like this: We are not among those forces of opposition like some others who do the following: On Tuesday, they shudder that government debt continues to rise, yell at the debt brake, and talk about the end of the world, namely the financial end of the world, then on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday in every area, that there is too little money and they want more money. Ladies and gentlemen, both can't be done! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the one hand, we cannot demand a reduction in public debt and, on the other hand, we must continue to demand more budgets in each area. You have to be so honest. And the BZÖ, even though we are in opposition, also stands for this budgetary honour and says it quite openly. This also applies to the arts and culture budget. We share the view here that we say that it is quite true in times like this, in times of crisis, in times when public debt has assumed Europe-wide levels that it threatens to break the entire European economy into the abyss, to call it a success that, while the art and culture budget as a whole does not increase, but does not see any reduction. This must also be accepted, ladies and gentlemen, and in this form in the international context. – I wanted to address the use of funds first. The second area is what one has in general for an art and cultural understanding. Ours is probably a bit different from the cultural understanding of some left-wing politicians. When I see the story and also the fate – yes, fate you almost have to say – of many great artists in various areas, whether it's painters, writers or whatever, I have to say, these were always people who were not part of the system, who were not part of the establishment, who did not form the thesis, but the antithesis, who did the resistance, who also practiced opposition. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These have been the artists we are so proud of today. Not state artists who have adapted to the system and who have lived in the bacon of the system, but who have also condemned those who have contributed to the Enlightenment through their expression of art and culture to the progress of our society. There are many examples in history, also and especially in Austria: Thomas Bernhard, for example, or also currently Elfriede Jelinek, or artists such as Falco or others who were maligned in our country and then had to go abroad to get the recognition they did not get in Austria. [[Abg. Oils: They have been despised by the FPÖ!]] Our understanding of art and culture is not one of subsidized state artists, but our cultural understanding is that we say that with the existing means of art and culture we need to promote the breadth, the diversity, not the lights, not the glamour, not the glamour, but the value, the quality of culture, ladies and gentlemen. That's a concern for us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also do not want to finance the art and cultural agitation, because this also happens very often, that a minister, not you, Mrs. Federal Minister, but others, that parties often also finance artists to use them for their political agitation. We have a head of state when I look here in the ranks of the ÖVP, where there are always strikingly many artists who are generously rewarded with promotions, so that they then make an election recommendation in the election campaign. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Also this abuse of artists, of cultural artists is unacceptable and, in our opinion, is quite clearly condemned. This is the cultural understanding we have from the BZÖ. To that end, we will find this budget approach, as it is presented, in order, although I have to say that - I have to say that - control is ensured. And that is the third point I would like to address. Most of the art and cultural budget goes to the Bundestheater, the Federal Museums. That's a very, very big chunks. When we look at current cases: The head of the Kunsthalle – although it is the responsibility of the city of Vienna, but there are also federal funding here – is accused of having charged private services via the Kunsthalle. Or, as already mentioned: The Director of the MAK is accused of misappropriation of tax money. This is why we need to find out: If these federal museums, the Bundestheater already receive so much budget resources, control must also be ensured accordingly. It cannot be expected that any directors will be able to finance their private pleasure through the taxpayer's treasure. I would like to address another area. I very much appreciate Mrs. Unterlander – now she is just calling – she is a bit of an exodin in the ranks of the Freedom Party. In the positive sense, I would like to have meant that, in the positive sense, for Mrs Unterlander. But this request, or this idea with the English language, is also a false understanding, Mrs Unterlander, and I believe you are a human being who can and will understand it. Language is nothing static, nothing solid, language is something dynamic, which is constantly evolving. I like how the language develops, the youth language, for example, what new words there are: Solarium, for example, fits me, is called the “Crab Caribbean ” in the youth language. I find it quite, very great – and also amusing how the language develops. This should not be prevented and prevented by legislative initiatives, but we are pleased that the language is also developing. The only thing that can be discussed if we want to maintain our language, and I would agree that we should introduce a binding quota with regard to the promotion of Austrian German-speaking music. I am already a little proud that we do not currently have an American trash at the top of the local charts, but finally an Austrian musician with a German-speaking song. We should really be taking France, which has such a quota scheme, as a model, and we should also introduce this quota system in this area in Austria. There is an evaluation phase which is now due at the end of the year, with regard to the voluntary commitment. We will take a close look at these results, draw the right conclusions from them, and start a corresponding initiative for the promotion of local music next year, 2012 and thus also the local cultural creators here in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, summarized in a sentence: less Lady Gaga and more Hubert von Goisern! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36481	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36503	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Zinggl is of course right when he says that budgetary negotiations are about distribution issues, only: What are we dealing with in recent years when it comes to budget production? – Before the distribution question, which resort needs to save where much. I am therefore very glad that we set priorities in the field of education, art and culture, and I am very happy under the given framework conditions that it has succeeded in keeping the art and culture budget stable in 2012. I regard this as a success under the given conditions and I am particularly grateful to Mrs Fuhrmann for the ever-active support. That was really not easy. Thank you! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the 21st house was opened. It is this – I would like to stress and emphasize – the largest cultural investment in this legislative period. It is a project dedicated to contemporary art, and for me it is also a key project in this legislative period. I was somewhat irritated now, Mr Zinggl, about your cost representations. I have always reported very precisely, including in the Committee on Culture, on this project, and I will allow myself to report in detail on it in the next Committee on Culture – this project has two stages of construction. I also have to say at this point that the contribution of the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been substantial in the implementation and cooperation has also worked well. In the Committee on Culture, you, Mr Markowitz, were very often referred to the subject of PAM: Pathological anatomical museum. I would say now it is so far, your demand can be implemented if the decision-making goes in the direction: The PAM is to be and will be brought into the Natural History Museum. I think that makes sense and is right. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Another big project that we are implementing together is the free entry for young people into our federal museums. This project will continue, it is enshrined in the multi-annual framework agreements with the Federal Museums and is also secured in the sense. I can only agree with Mrs Fuhrmann's words: The evaluation Bundestheater was very, very professional in the performance. Show me a second case where auditors, lawyers, analyze a theatre group and not become a media spectacle, but, on the contrary, all those involved and those involved are working to invest as much money in the arts field as possible under the conditions given! I am here on a subject, Mr Petzner, which I take very, very seriously – I have not yet found a German concept –: public governance. The question of who is responsible for what and who bears the consequences, this question must always be addressed specifically in the public sector and especially in the distributed institutions, and we must address these questions. These include rules, framework agreements, rules of procedure, as well as determined action when something does not work. I plan a meeting on Public Governance for 2012 to which I will also invite you very warmly. The promotion of the art of my department – as Mrs Ungelander, our colleagues, dissociates our views – is an important source of funding, an important source of revenue for the art-makers in Austria, who are not as good as looking at the reports. And it is very important that we continue our art policy path here: Scholarships, studio programs, prizes, art purchases, and I would particularly like to underline the two areas of cultural initiatives and art communication. In 2012 the Austrian film will be another focus of our cultural efforts. But I am not only concerned with the question of film production, but also with the question of film mediation. I am glad that the film/TV agreement with the ORF has been legitimised by law that it has been increased. But I also wish to make myself very clear about better broadcasting times in the ORF for Austrian film productions. This must belong to the understanding of the Austrian film. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the European Parliament.]] We will also continue to cooperate with the municipal government and the public authorities in 2012. It is a small project, but a very fine project: the “Wanderkino” that brings the Austrian film to rural regions where there are no cinemas anymore. And that gives me the next keyword: Conservation of the programme kinos, promotion of regional kinos. I already see, and this is a clear cultural policy task, that we can promote and finance the programme cinemas from the art budget. I also think it is important to maintain regional kinos in rural areas and to support them in their strategy of digitisation. But it is also important for me that the economy enters here. It is important for me that we also use resources from regional support here. Ladies and gentlemen! It is my central concern that we don't play one art section against the other, that we don't play contemporary museums against other museums. I believe that precisely because the framework conditions are becoming more difficult, it is relevant to succeed that art and culture appear closed and that we are working together for the artists. I would particularly like to work at European level to ensure that art and culture are also taken into account in the European Structural Funds. Here I think primarily of the ERDF. Here again, I am looking for you to support the inclusion of art and cultural projects in the regional programming documents – and they are now written for the years 2013 and the following. I thank you for the good cooperation, I am looking forward to the next Committee on Culture and I am going to prepare it very well from my side, Mr Zinggl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36618	Mrs Elisabeth Hakelzu is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36642	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to say a few words to our colleague, Mr Unterlander, and to the ‘State artists’: Let us be proud that we have artists like Glavinic and Menasse or Hubert von Goisern, who are successful beyond Austria! Being successful also means doing research, for example, and it costs. And of course these artists will and should be financially supported in this question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Every year always the same!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] It's not always the same and not every year! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Oh, yes! Take a look at this!]] You can calculate this a little more precisely, Mr. Collegue. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You should do that!]] My colleague Sonja Ablinger mentioned it earlier: There are many projects in art and culture where it would be worthwhile to implement them, especially when it comes to strengthening rural areas. One of these projects is, for example, the film or the digitization of the programme cinemas. In terms of shine and success, the Austrian film is nothing more like those from Hollywood. But what does the best Austrian films help if you can't watch them anywhere – especially in rural regions, in small cinemas?- Oh, my God! Films need platforms where they can be shown. The pure support of film productions is certainly not enough here. It is therefore essential to take the interests of cinema seriously and to support them in technical equipment and supply in rural areas. A year or so ago, the IG programme cinema has approached the Ministry of Culture and asked for financial support. Now, due to the joint efforts, a real milestone in cinema digitisation has been achieved: The Ministry of Culture is providing a total of € 1 million, € 500,000 for the Kinos programme and €500 000 for regional kinos, as co-financing for the digitisation of programme and regional cinemas. The aim of this nationwide funding is to secure the future of the programme cinemas and thus of independent artistic and critical film programming. Another important objective, however, is to ensure demanding programming in the regions and thus outside the urban centres. The offer side in the rural area should not be further diluted, and the diversity of the Austrian and European films should be shown to all Austrians. The cost of digitising a cinema room is around €80 000. 20 000 € per hall are now provided by the Ministry within the framework of this co-financing. The remaining part is to be given by the federal states – Vienna has already taken a pioneering role here – to the distributors and the cinemas themselves. In conclusion, however, I would like to point out that cinemas are not only a cultural but also an important economic factor. That is why I would more than regret it if Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, who in the past has shown his commitment to Austrian film, would participate in the co-financing of the digitalization of cinemas, in particular the regional cinemas, this time only to a small extent, and I may ask him to get a little deeper into the bag here again.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36715	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36736	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Another sentence on school policy: Carinthia has the highest quota of Maturants and Carinthia is a pioneer in teaching with Matura. These are the effects of twelve years of free education policy in Carinthia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In today's art and cultural debate, I would like to talk to the artist city of Gmünd again. The Künstlerstadt Gmünd operates seven galleries, an international gast studio, public studios, sculpture gardens, the “Haus des Aufunens”, a wonderful establishment of our Manfred Tischitz for students for art and cultural communication. Cabarets, concerts, the Alpe-Adria-Literatursymposium, art seminars, workshops, children's paintings take place, and there is a public library and a lively folk culture life. – This in a city with 2,500 inhabitants. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Through this permanent art and cultural work over the last 20 years with the focus on contemporary visual art, actually the most difficult genre in the art field, we have succeeded in becoming a destination. Destination means that the artist city Gmünd is frequented over the summer season by over 500,000 visitors who find great artistic actions in the studios, in the exhibitions, in the galleries. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This work has also led us to win the EDEN Award this year, which is the highest European tourism prize. [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: A madness!]] EDEN stands for European Destinations of Excellence. – Mr Zinggl, you say that it is ‘a madness’. An insanity is your whining idea and evaluation of the cultural and art policy in Austria! There you get depressed when you hear something like that from you. This is the insanity of the left-left Rabaken here in the plenary room. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] I would like to thank you very much for this support by the Minister for Culture. Of course, something's also my heart. Mrs Minister, you know that's my horse: social security, as well as our cultural workers. Mr Zinggl! There you may be able to show courage to go with the liberals in a request. This request aims to ensure that contemporary purchases of artists can be tax deductible. This would really be a great help for the social situation of young artists and artists, because it will free up resources for the corresponding structures and support for artists who are currently on the track. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I put the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is asked to take appropriate measures to promote the private sponsorship of contemporary art and culture by tax recognition of private art and cultural expenditure as a special expenditure train to counter partial withdrawal of the state cultural monopoly.” Mrs Minister, I know that this steady drop will eventually cave the stone, and I am good things that this cultural policy will fall on a fertile ground for the art-makers in Austria and beyond. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36818	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36875	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36896	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to put forward a sentence, which means: Austria is a cultural nation. This is what most of the Austrians see in the same way, and this is clearly seen by the guests with us. This must also be reflected in a budget, and there we are already on the issue raised by Mr Fuhrmann, that the identification with the country of culture of Austria will, so to speak, cease. In this sense, a congratulation to the Federal Minister, who succeeded in keeping the funds for art and culture at about the same level in times of debt brakes. With a budget approach of € 455.2 million, one can certainly speak of a fiscally expressed appreciation of art, even though there is clearly not really a limit on the wish list to the top. But if politics is the art of the feasible, then a small piece of art has succeeded in the arts and culture. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What are the essential tasks of promoting art and culture? Art and culture are part of a country's historical conscience. This includes both past and contemporary art. In my opinion, therefore, investment in art is also investment in the future, both in a moral and in an economic sense. Austria's economic location benefits greatly from a thriving cultural scene. Just think of the many festivals that take place on land, on land and that partly come with very low public funding. Another important aspect is the provision of art and culture to children and young people. There has already been talk of music today, and there is the proposal, which is also supported by the national conference, that there should be a restriction between schools and music schools. I come from the Federal Republic with the most dense offer of music schools, and I think this concept is very superior. I would also ask you to give an order for a concept of how this restriction could look spatially and legally protected. Another essential task is the promotion of contemporary artists. And I would like to draw particular attention to the improved situation for artists inside. It is also possible to distribute the funds more justly in the sense of gender budgeting through a very targeted focus, which has been placed on the promotion of women in your home. In connection with the promotion of artists, I would also like to address the issue of copyright. For the ÖVP, the protection of intellectual property is a very high asset and especially in times of internet and co particularly need protection. This has to do not only with the very legitimate economic interests of artists but also with the fundamental cultural and social importance for a country. In other words, we should keep an eye on innovation. And finally, it is an important task not to see art as an elitist relief element, but as a kind of basic spiritual food for all. This includes, of course, promoting and safeguarding art and culture, not only in urban areas, but also in rural areas, and we are again on the issue of distribution. Everything in all can be said, however, the broad continuation of the budget is a correct and good approach – once again a thank you for it! It will, of course, be our task as a Member of Parliament to keep in mind the fair distribution of funds.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36954	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e36975	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been mentioned today: Especially in times of crisis, I think it is very, very important that the funds for the arts and culture budget have remained fairly constant. It must not be forgotten that art and culture are an important factor in tourism and, above all, in the economy. Especially in the capitals, we see that this factor has recently been greatly boosted, that the number of nights increases, that the Bundestheater and other cultural sites are booked out. And here I come to an important point. I think the action for young people, free entry, has come great. We should consider for the future whether it would be useful to start an action to bring young people, students and school classes more into the theatre. Unfortunately, theatre cards are very expensive, even if they are reduced for students, and I do not want us to have a two-class society in the future and only more wealthy people can go to the theatre. In this respect, starting an action would make sense to bring young people, students and school classes more into the theatre. These are and would be the consumers and customers of tomorrow. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] An important point – it has already been addressed today – is Austrian music. We already have to take our own nose when the ORF fees, the ORF support, were increased yesterday. One important concern for me is that Austrian radio, radio, Ö3 et cetera, should play more and more Austrian artists. Hubert von Goisern has had his last hit 20 years ago, then he is suddenly playing with “Brenna tuats guat” – fits exactly in this house – in place 1, and at once he is played up and down again. Here you should consider whether there should also be a connection between the ORF promotion and art and culture. With an instruction from the ministry you can't do that, I know, but at least you should be at the next negotiating point. I would like to say once again how we will deal with the Austrian taxpayers' money in this regard. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One important point, and I thank you very much, Mrs Minister, is the Pathological-Anatomical Museum, also called "Narrenturm". It is very well known in Vienna. I started two years ago to deal with this issue. I am convinced that many have had to inform themselves first: Where is it at all? What does the “norse tower ” look like? This building has an important historical background. Unfortunately, as far as the outside is concerned, you know, Mrs. Minister, we have to do a lot of things in the future. In any case, I will stick to this issue. This is the first step that is going in the right direction, that you just integrate it into the Natural History Museum. The number of visitors has declined considerably. – What is behind this Pathological-Anatomical Federal Museum? – This museum houses the largest collection of Europe’s wax replicas of many, many diseases. It must not be forgotten that this museum houses 50,000 exhibits and represents a cultural heritage, of course also a historical heritage, with regard to the representation of disease images. Such a thing cannot be seen anywhere else in Europe. That is why it is really important that the Pathological-Anatomical Federal Museum be preserved alive. And for the future it has to be sought that the flow of visitors to this truly interesting museum is getting bigger again. The whole school classes should be led there, because this is so interesting and there are pictures of diseases that are no longer present in our widths. Again: This is the right way, but of course we also need to be careful that it is not the same as at the deep memory that we soon have no space left. We need to see how we can accommodate this museum in the future. On another important point – that has already been mentioned today –: At the Bundestheaters there is very much potential for savings; I see that as well. And now, the responsible and competent parties should be convinced that this great savings potential will be realized, so that even smaller cinemas or smaller theatres can be supported. Otherwise, we are very satisfied with your work, Mrs. Schmied. I really have to praise you here, because you are one of the few ministers – and this has to be said here – who does not make a purely party policy, but who is not afraid to take good suggestions from the opposition parties as well. I would like to tell you, Madam Minister, that this opportunity is what I wanted to see today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37054	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37076	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Unterlander, perhaps should You sometimes recall the following quote in your criticism of our cultural policy: “Tradition is not the preservation of ashes, but the choking of the flame.” It is precisely this blaze of the flame, Mrs Unterlander, that means diversity in cultural policy, that means innovation. I don't think it's really good to always put the individual art parts against each other in such discussions, as: In cultural policy, everything can have space – and I believe that is a great enrichment for our society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In view of this budget, I would like to join the praise of many colleagues and congratulate Mrs. Dr. Schmied on her success in keeping the cultural and art budget constant during these economically difficult times. This budget means, in particular, for the cultural creators in our country, that they will find a proper field in the future, where they can be artistically active – and this means, above all, that the promotion of young people can be continued. This also means promoting regional cultural activities and cultural initiatives, but also – and I think this is particularly important – a continuation of the very successful cultural mediation. We have already heard today, the Austrians can, if you ask them where you can save, very well imagine that the cultural sector is being saved; up to 70 percent of Austrians say that you could save in this area. That is why it is very important to start cultural mediation, even with students, so that parents may be brought closer to the culture about their children. In this context, it is important – I am convinced – that culture is also being lived in the regions, so that people from cities can also be culturally active and enjoy culture. In this context, Mr Jury has highlighted his city here, and I would also like to highlight my city and say: In Amstetten we just got the 57. Cultural weeks are running. During these cultural weeks, 28 events are held, especially by many artists in the region, but also by artists such as the writer Glavinic. In my opinion, it is important that cultural workers also show their work in rural regions and that people are involved there. Unfortunately, it is often the case that artists who grow in the region often have very few appearances. Our cultural weeks are therefore intended to help give artists in this region a field of appearance. In any case, I am very proud that we will be able to perform these cultural weeks successfully again this year. The last point I would like to address is the security of planning for cultural initiatives. This too has been achieved by Mrs. Dr. Schmied – and this can be continued. Planning security is very important for cultural initiatives because they do not have to deal with requests for subsidies, but can devote themselves fully to creativity. Thank you very much, Mrs. Minister! With our wife Minister of Culture Dr. Schmied and also with our cultural speaker Sonja Ablingerist the culture in Austria on a good path, and the cultural landscape in Austria will continue to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37145	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37166	Madam President. Dear ministers! Estimated Minister of Culture and Art Schmied, I think you have brought something quite, quite great together, especially with regard to the time component. In any event, I am proud that I may be a member of the Parliamentary Cultural Committee, and I would like to say to the previous speaker: Even the different entrances we have are good, because this is also a sign of art and culture. With regard to the question of who is in possession of the true concept of art and culture, quite complete libraries can be filled. No matter in which direction: Art is always emerging – and that's a good thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that the flagships of culture, the so-called head companies, the largest share of the funds, are so to speak, is understandable somewhere, yet I share the view of Dr. Zinggl: It is about the being or not being of cultural and art promotions in our country. And on top of that, too: In addition to Vienna or the capitals of the country, there are other areas in Austria where many people, as it were, are preparing the ground for the so-called high culture to be preserved in Vienna or Salzburg. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the so-called high culture is something important in Austria – whether it is painting, music, contemporary or older literature or architecture. And please do not forget the genre film in this context. All this is about sending boats from Austria, all this brings our country a lot of economic power. And I would like to point out not only the area of tourism, but also the fields of science and research. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are rightly proud of this red and white-red export. Two points, however, from the Styrian point of view – this is also about high culture – that remind me so to speak, to bear grief, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied. It's about the Preservation of the Roman Museum Flavia Solva! Flavia Solva, near Leibnitz, was a Roman city that has 20,000 inhabitants and covers more than 40 hectares. It is known that Flavia Solva was one of the most magnificent commercial centers of the Celtic-Roman Noricum within the Roman Empire. But, ladies and gentlemen: The Roman Museum Flavia Solva falls away! This museum urgently needs money! The existing excavations must be quickly renovated and important archaeological areas exposed under professional guidance, otherwise the first capital of the Styria will be lost, for that was Flavia Solva! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the open-air museum Stübing, to which there are already numerous applications on the part of the SPÖ, but also on the part of the BZÖ. This museum is also in extreme danger! Today the 21st house was also spoken here, and I can only say: 10 percent of its financial resources – and both of my mentioned museums could be saved! In 1962 the open-air museum Stübing was founded, i.e. next year 50th anniversary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about 96 buildings as well as about 130 000 historical objects. So this is about a huge art treasure in Austria. This museum was founded by the Austrian Federal Government as a central open-air museum for the whole of Austria. All nine heads of state and five Federal Ministries took on responsibility and later confirmed this by the creation of a foundation. Until today, the financial clarification has not taken place, but I suppose it is still a few years. Next year: 50 years of support. I'm just asking to clean up. The woodworm is racing in there – there is just something done here, otherwise a jewel is lost. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thirdly and last point: 2012 is an important year. Marburg is Europe's capital of culture in 2012. In this context, we have the opportunity to support the old Austrian minority something that they can present their 800 or 1,000 years of history in the border area – for us also interconnecting, peace-making space. It can't be that 30 kilometers away from Leibnitz is suddenly another world. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think that the youth is thinking differently today and is also acting reasonablely. Let's give them a chance! 5 000 € for a small publication, that would be something important. Finally, I should like to make a motion for a resolution on the transparency of the database. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Call the ÖVP:Slovenia! Our money for our leuk’!]] Thus we are again in the distribution – being or not of cultural promotions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37273	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37327	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37375	Mr President. Ladies of the Federal Government! High house! I am active in popular culture and social democracy – for decades. Why should I emphasize this, Mrs. Unterlander? – I emphasize this because active intervention for conservation and care cultural There is no contradiction to democratic, progressive, social attitude, but above all there is no privilege of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Petzner: Really?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our attitude to popular culture is clearly reflected in this budget, which is influenced by Mrs. Schmied. [[Abg. Petzner: Which costume club are you with exactly?]] On the one hand, I am the chairman of the Lower Austrian Cultural Forum, which has committed itself to a modern, contemporary promotion of art and culture and a critical view, and on the other hand, the chairman of an orchestra, which was founded many decades ago as a working music chapel, is committed to Bergmann's tradition and still deals with contemporary music. So for me, that's no contradiction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] From this basic point of view, I see work in popular culture as a social democracy, but also as a work of diversity – that is, to allow new forms, i.e. progressive, creative discussion of tradition, and here above all also with those of minorities, of ethnic groups, of elderly fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a clear contrast to eternity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is obviously the case for some in this House, also the Krux, for those who want to participate politically-ideologically in folk culture and traditional care. Unfortunately, in history we have often experienced this painfully. This has not been earned by popular culture with its hundreds of thousands of volunteers. Mrs. Schmied, you have fulfilled this claim and have increased the funds for popular culture to €500 000. These are available for the various measures of the federal government in the federal states. There are clear priorities here. I'm just calling a few: support for umbrella organisations such as choir and wind music associations and the International Organisation for Folk Art; project-related funding, particularly in national and international exchanges, to get to know other cultures; Promote training, seminars and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! In the truest sense of the word, the many tens of thousands of musicians are the basis for the young artists who will carry on the reputation of Austrian music and culture in the future. Mrs. Federal Minister! Thank you very much for this budget – also in the name of popular culture.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37440	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37461	Mr President. Highly esteemed ministers on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, I have now listened carefully to this debate, and there have been a lot of words here. Culture is very diverse. Mrs. Federal Minister! I take note that the 21st House is your biggest concern. That's all very nice. One thing we should not forget, however, that we should also pass on the cultural heritage that we have acquired from our ancestors to the next generations – and not intentionally destroy and destroy irrevocably. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to address something in particular very briefly and therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, this plant is currently very competitive, and you know it. It is in its entirety the greatest Art Nouveau style area we have in Austria. In addition to the Secession, the church at the Steinhof is the greatest Art Nouveau building in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] The area around it, which is in its entirety under monument protection, is now in reality to be deliberately destroyed. There are already pavilions today that are broken, in which the mural breaks down, and nothing happens here. Great artists were involved in the construction of this area. For example, Columnoman Moser made the windows in the church, but also in the field of proselogy, in which a kindergarten is now to enter. No human knows exactly what happens to the memory chapel in exactly this area in which wooden figures are also attributed to Columnan Moser. A few years ago, these wooden figures were restored by a lot of money, and we do not know today who actually paid for it. The Vienna Health Councillor has said that she has never heard that at all. These are invaluable art values, and they're supposed to break up somewhere now. That is why I ask you to make a real effort to get this Art Nouveau. It is comparable to facilities such as Schönbrunn or Belvedere Castle.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37540	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37591	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37612	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! After the promotion of the museum in 2010, an important funding area was redefined and organized in the field of public publishing. The direct funding for libraries has been significantly increased at €500 000 a year, and I think it is right and important that in 2012 the bookshops have available € 2 million in total – including basic funding for roof associations and training for librarians. Books can thus invest in their employee training, improve accessibility and increase the number of media offers. These support measures will therefore be used to improve structures, but also projects. Books are not only information centres, they also offer many opportunities for self-determined training, lifelong learning and regional cultural communication. In a literature database critical book reviews, but also games and CD-ROMs are provided. The media offer is comprehensive: from culture to education to events and promotion of desire to read. In Vienna, e-books have been released for leaning for about a year. 70,000 books have already been borrowed in this way. However, there are not only large libraries but also those operated in towns with up to 2,500 inhabitants. As a Member from a rural region, I am all the more concerned with the promotion of books, because above all, outside the agglomerations, attention needs to be paid to the preservation or improvement of the education offer. This approach will be followed by the promotion of books. The campaign, initiated by the book industry association, “Austria is reading. Meeting point library” is about to become Austria’s largest literary festival. It's not going to be. only advertised for reading, but also supports the positioning of libraries as educational institutions. New readers are to be won, and book worms are to be made from readers. Finally, two points: First of all, it is important for librarians and those responsible in the communities to make use of the federal funds in the coming year, to re-enact and expand their libraries, to improve technical equipment and media services, and to provide a wide range of educational opportunities. Secondly, it is also important that work on the preparation of a master plan for the development of books in Austria is continued in the coming year.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37664	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37685	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Many key areas of the budget have already been discussed, but I would like to make a few brief comments on the Federal Museums for my group, because it is at least €84.6 million to which the budget in this area will be increased. At the same time – Mr Markowitz described it in detail – the integration of the Pathological-Anatomical Federal Museum into the Natural History Museum takes place. The basic fee will be increased by € 2.6 million. I believe that in view of the tense situation, it is necessary to sum up once again that it is a very great achievement that the cultural budget is kept stable. I would like to mention three great successes with the Federal Museums, which were presented in September of this year with investment programmes: the reopening of the 21st house, the opening of the generalized MumOK and the first virtual preview of the Kunstkammer of the Kunsthistorische Museum. The 21st House was already the subject of the discussion today. I think this is a great project for contemporary art, and I also welcome the fact that the Ministry's internal shifts have succeeded in providing additional €2 million. I think that the 21st house will establish itself as a center for contemporary art, because from next year the artotheque of the federal government and also the estate Fritz Wotruba will be integrated. It will be so attractive that it will be preserved from its own resources in the future. I would like to mention one point, the gender budgeting area. The Federal Minister is acting here very advanced and exemplary. It is also possible for women to have large federal museums, because – you have to mention this – the appointment of Karola Kraus to the director of the MumOK and the appointment of Agnes Husslein to the director of the Belvedere shows the open access, which our minister has in terms of both gender sensitivity and the width of content in the visual arts. Finally, in the area of the Federal Museums, the priorities of the government programme – namely participation, mediation, promotion of young people, regional cultural activities and internationalisation of local art and culture – are also being implemented in an exemplary way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37727	No one is reporting on this. This concludes the discussions on this subject. [[17:15:15]] UG 31: Science and research
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37748	We come to the negotiation of subheading 31: Science and research. The debate is initiated by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37772	Mr President. Federal Minister! As already in the Budget Committee on Science, I am concerned about the problem of the different curriculum in the same field of study in Austria – in the field of tension of more internationalization. In Austria, for example, it is not possible to start the jus studies in Vienna and continue seamlessly in Graz or vice versa; this also applies to other universities. The reason for this was that, in the context of university autonomy, the individual professors who make the curriculum at the universities are trying, because of their view of things, to put their own disciplines in the foreground as far as possible and to give them the relevant meaning, so that there is a completely different study plan. For example, it cannot be assumed that a university professor from the field of law in Vienna, on the question of how the study is in Graz, says he actually has no idea. This is a state that is not sustainable, especially when you say that all students should actually be able to make international degrees and switch universities internationally. They said in the Committee that they wanted to raise a problem when it came to this process – "Bologna Reloaded" – so that it could be achieved at universities. But a little bit too little is a problem-strengthening alone. Therefore, on the part of your ministry, a gentle pressure would be necessary so that the awareness actually arises to adapt these study plans accordingly, so that such abuses can no longer arise. It's really unbearable. You always bring another point when you talk about the tuition fees. They are a supporter of tuition fees and, as an example, always show that some studies in Austria are offered excellently. They are always talking about an American student who wants to study at the Music University of Violin. Apart from the fact that there are restrictions on access – even if as an Austrian, I could not just buy a violin in the next music business and say, I would like to learn from Professor Küchl at the Musikuniversität Wien Geige; since I already have the appropriate talent – the American is not even an EU citizen, but a citizen of a third country, who could be prescribed – even now – tuition fees. There would not have been this problem in itself. This example, which you have already brought twice, is certainly a false one. Nevertheless, from our point of view, tuition fees are absolutely unacceptable – first of all, the entire system of the university needs to be changed – as long as it cannot be guaranteed that an Austrian can study what he wants and that he can complete his studies at a minimum of time – with all his work. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] Unfortunately, this is the case, not least by hearing hall crews, by which some students were brought to a quick degree. This was just mentioned on the verge – as was the damage that there was there that required funds again. As long as this is not guaranteed, one does not need to talk about whether there should be tuition fees or not. So that I can understand others too, and so that my colleague Heidi Unseiter may now be a bit angry about me, I would like to say that is an absolute no-go! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Demonstrativ acclaim and bravoruf der Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] The question of foreign students is also asked very often, because funds that are required in themselves to be Austrian students are misappropriated or misappropriated in our opinion – and, on the other hand, nothing or too little is done. We are imagining the introduction of the country of origin principle at European level, and I should also like to make a motion for a resolution on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] It's right to say that there's a need to look at reciprocity here. Only if the Austrians are treated the same way will this also apply to foreign students, including foreign students. The judgments and findings of European courts, which would provide clarity and legal certainty here, are already in place. However, as the small but ever-greating Austria, as the Federal Government tells us, it should also be a little stronger tones in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37885	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37939	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e37960	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate viewers! “Genug can never meet,” sings Konstantin Wecker in one of his most famous songs. This also applies to education, research and science. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can never invest enough in these future areas, but the economic crisis, of course, also requires us to have a sound common budgetary policy. While many countries have launched savings measures in the higher education sector, our universities have access to the service agreements, our specialized universities will have security and a higher budget by means of student funding in the coming year. Many OECD studies in Austria show that we are significantly above the average of the richest countries in the world. We invest more in education, we invest more in research than the average results. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only the recently published study by the European Commission shows us that we are among those countries that invest most in higher education. Finland, Malta, France, Austria, these are those countries that have invested most in education and where the education budget is increased most. We have agreed here together on the two-percent objective, several times decided. We all agreed that it is important to us. We are on the path with the 2012 budget. We want to achieve this ambitious goal together. Of the 1.3% of GDP we are currently spending on tertiary education, over 1.2% are from public funds. What does this mean for taxpayers? What are they investing in? – 280 000 students receive an annual value of €11 400 per course in Austria. The OECD average is €9 300. That is, Austria invests 20 percent more than the average of the richest states. Austria, Austrian taxpayers and taxpayers invest around €50,000 in a student from the start of their studies to the successful degree. We are also in fifth place in the EU and sixth in the OECD comparison. Let us take a look at the educational path from Kindergarten to the conclusion of a higher education course compared to Germany! Germany invests 106 000 € from kindergarten to the complete academic, to the completed academic. We invest 149 000 €. Let us be satisfied with these investments! Enough can never be enough, of course, but we invest a lot in the future of our young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The lowest youth unemployment in Europe, the high employment rate of our young people is right. We do not want Spanish states where up to 46 percent of young people are unemployed. We want young people in employment. We want well-trained young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Enough can never be enough, this also applies to reform measures. Success does not mean that one can rest on it, but we must continue to work on expanding our top position. That is, we need an internationally appropriate private contribution to the study costs, we need the further development of our scholarships, we need the subsidiary model to give our students and our universities a good model. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] Mrs. Colleague! I can tell you: We have a completed study contribution model with a suspended social model, in which clearly international criteria are also to be implemented in Austria. I was just back in the EU. They are EU-friendly. Why don't you join this model, where all of Brussels told me again last week, that should be Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The model of origin, we can repeat it over and over again, is not legal – no matter how often you demand it. We need modern solutions. We need offensives that arrive directly at the university square with the students. That is why the offensive funds we will invest here are also so important. But we also need more private participation. That is why it will be important in the future to obtain a mix of funding between public authorities, students, the private sector and society. 2 per cent means to reach 2 per cent together. One way is to further strengthen the transfer of knowledge and technology between science and the economy. Our economy wants to increase employment. This can be achieved through innovation, through research. Mr. Federal Minister, I would like to thank the team of your department and you for your commitment to the transfer of knowledge, because the Austrian economy and the Austrian universities and specialized universities together will continue to guide the Austrians and the other Europeans through the difficult times. Together, we need a university funding that is as well-founded as possible. Your study contribution model, the study site-related funding will be completed by the end of the year No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have the opportunity here in the House to allow our universities a next step towards more planning. This calls for commonness, and I hope that by the end of the year we will be able to make this common ground.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38073	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38094	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear colleague and science spokesman of the ÖVP! There is a Scientific Integrity Commission. I believe that even speeches should be more intimate, and in general, truth is defined in such a way that statements are consistent with reality. All the renowned analysts of the budget, from Wifo to the Chamber of Workers and Uniko, clearly state that the budget of universities is falling real and nominal. As you come to say that everything will be better, that much more money is there, is strange. If the rector conference says that there is a lack of €300 million today and here, just to maintain the status quo, which is not so fantastic everywhere, the university billion is suddenly in a completely different light, because that's exactly €300 million a year. The Minister is – that is beautiful – good faith and good hope, but this good faith no longer shares at the university, for he has been really cheated on too often – not by you, but by others. Austrians believe 52 percent in guardian angels. Whether Fekter reaches this rating, I'm not sure. She was still here first, and I thought she was going to say yes, wonderful, I support my colleagues daughter and the university billion is coming. She even said the billion is coming, but in Schilling. It's a sarcastic saying and it doesn't bring us on. If the university really is so good, and that's your domain on and on: Social and Humanities Sciences, Ancient Studies, why then the complete return or dissolution of any publication promotion? This is not only about books, but also about magazines that are partly unique in Austria and also unique in Europe. I have received an open letter here, which you also know, where it is said that journals for classical ancient sciences, Jewish studies, feminist history, exile and resistance culture, sociology, political democracy, modern languages are no longer viable; they have no shelter basin. And the publishers and libraries don't wait. If the three months or a year do not appear, they will be cancelled. And they write here about a balding of the humanities. The location of Austria is thus removed from the field of view. The young scientists have no publication organs, which are partly very rare subjects. And that's what I'm saying: If we're so good, I don't understand. In the financing of the pre-registration – I'm told, I can't prove it now – € 300 000. The advertising campaign for the prior application alone cost € 73 000 or € 75 000. The funds for the publications were between € 150,000 and € 186,000, i.e. in and for itself a pipe, de facto nothing in a budget, especially if it is so good in Europe and internationally. And that's where I don't understand Cortolezi's defeat. I don't have anything from a science speaker who speaks here like the press speaker of a department. Parliament is not here for this. Now I'm talking about something else where I'm entirely on the side of the Minister. We have a state in Innsbruck, where the State Council of Health complains of the University and up to €80 million, Worst Case, calls for additional payments for the additional costs that a medical clinic causes compared to a state hospital. It looks as if the country and its own holding ultimately wanted to make the Medical University of Innsbruck a national university. They interfere in vocations, prevent good occupations at the children's clinic and are clearly due to the mistakes that have occurred there; they have not happened by chance, that is not a statistical cut, where medications also fail or wrong are used. I told the rector: If this is so further approved by the University and the Ministry, then he can move his rectorate to the Bergisel Museum, because then it fits there. These are really methods that I find objectionable when good scientists are deunified. You can't be a good researcher and at the same time a good clinician. That's not going to work out. That's why we don't take it. If women are to be held around the nose for months and the vocational negotiations have to be terminated, because there is not even a basic infrastructure for research and modern medicine at the children's clinic, then I think that this is unbearable. And you may all know that the clinical extra burden goes loosely to the € 400 million a year. It must be expected that you, Minister, will finance the top care of the three locations in Graz, Innsbruck and Vienna, namely health care. Night services have nothing or relatively little to do with research and teaching. And only the night services of a location go to the x million € per year, but have nothing to do with teaching and research. You have to continue the AKH if the university withdraws. You can't reduce this to zero beds. And a computer is used for health care, and yet the minister pays 100 per cent of the medical staff, 15 per cent of the construction costs, 100 per cent of the medical services of doctors and then large appliances that cost either 60 or 40 per cent. The same in Tyrol, however, only 50 percent of doctors, and in Graz. Where it works, where a contract exists, is Graz. Your total budget will be occupated from medicine to more than a third of these three universities, three of 21. But not even one percent of your department's staff takes care of this wrong situation. Each holding company lays loose € 1 million to win a trial against the university. That's what's going on for her. The university doesn't have the money. And Innsbruck with 80 million € in return is bankrupt when that happens. I would really ask here to do something massively. There are opinions that Hahn has already commissioned. There are even opinions from the holding board of Tilak, who then changed to the university as vice-rector that the clinical extra burden is too high. And when I hear what is said in Tyrol and Vienna by state politicians – that is, Tilg on the one hand and Wehsely on the other – then, I have to say, I think this is very bad. The science sector is not to this extent responsible for the top supply of the countries. We own the largest university clinics in Europe. That's why it's coming. Germans and others like to be here because 20 percent of beds are private beds and they do not deserve as well as we do. No great motive, I already admit that. But do we need the largest university clinics in Europe with 200 beds, 150 beds, which are nowhere else available? For teaching and research, half would be sufficient. That is to say, the negotiating position is – if you are only semi-ethically integrity and semi-economic and argumentatively fit – in principle, not to lose. And I'd take it because otherwise everything's going into the graves. Medicine needs this money, I say, only partially pays the wrong one. And that would have a huge priority for me next to the promotion of publication. So wide is the palette at the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38179	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38201	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this budget has not achieved the great leaps that we would like to see, I think, all involved in education policy. But at least we can say that in this area no or less is saved than in other areas. In any event, it is ensured that current budgets can comply with current performance agreements with universities. The real challenge, however, is the question of how the follow-up budgets will continue in the coming years. We have heard in recent weeks that the Minister of Finance is holding talks with the Minister of Finance, which obviously run well, where he is at least optimistic that more resources will be available for universities in the coming years. It's about a billion higher education. At the same time, we are discussing in parallel to this budget in truth also – keyword: Debt brake – how development will continue in the next few years. And in this sense, I think it is important to stress even today that it will be essential – and, Mr Federal Minister, you have our full support – to set the right priorities and priorities in the next few years, even under the conditions of expected savings budgets, and to continue and become more offensive, because it is also necessary to invest in education, so also in our universities. In this sense, I also looked at exactly how the debt brake is constructed and defined, and I also found here the sentence that there should continue to be room for future investment in Austria, that they should be preserved. And I think this is a particularly important element in our discussion of the financing of universities, including in connection with this debt brake, which naturally leads to the question: How do we open up further and receive scope for such investments? And from the point of view of higher education funding, we also need to urgently think about revenue-based measures, to urgently open up new revenue-side margins to ensure that the relevant scope for action for our universities is maintained. In other words, from the point of view of higher education funding, I would like to stress here three times that it is particularly important, from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party, to be able to make the necessary investments in the future in the next few years in order to ensure that we are able to make a major contribution to this process. the introduction of tax, the introduction of a millionaire tax, and the real commitment to it and the implementation of it at the same time. We expressly confess to the public financing of our public universities. We do not have universities in Austria that have their own assets from which they can finance themselves. This means a clear commitment from our side to the adequate public funding of public universities in order to invest in education in economically difficult times, and not only in economically difficult times, but especially in economically difficult times, to make the right and important investments in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38252	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38273	Mr President. High house! Beautiful words of an ever smaller coalition – of course, I think everyone agrees that you have to invest in future fields. That's one. The second is that you have to save in general. But in the future, whether education is, whether science is, whether research is, it is important to invest to secure the future of children, the economy and thus social prosperity. There we are all d’accord. But I would like to start by congratulating this budget a little, because the facts, figures and data mentioned here by the Government Bank make every criticism. You're talking about offensives, you're talking about university billions, and what do we find in the budget? – A few peanuts at best, with almost nothing being expanded. I can remind you: They themselves have set the 2 percent GDP target in science in the tertiary field. You're miles away from that. They are the ones who have spoken of a university billion; and then a Mrs. Finanzminister comes back here and says: Yes, there are the Uni billions – but in Schilling! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that is no longer to be surpassed by cynicism. What do you think about the university members, the students who feel like professors, when you say: There's the university billion, but in Schilling!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] This is actually a cynicism that is difficult to overcome. [[Abg. Strache: Yes, that's a frying egg!]] Then you say: €80 million in addition. – The figures in the budget speak a completely different language. And these offensives actually disappear for the most part in the global budgets of the universities, saying they serve to maintain the normal business, thus have nothing to do with an offensive for new things. This is the subject, Minister. If you then find that in the budget the pure figures look so that €3.85 billion is available for science and research, so a plus of €66.4 million, then this is a total increase of 1.75 percent on the paper. But if you subtract the advance payments – as well as the SPÖ-side workers' chamber – this facility is well-known – then you will only get 0.7 percent increase in the budget. In the case of inflation as stated in the budget, with key data of 2.3 per cent – I say 3 per cent to you – this is a real minus, a minus in the science budget. Talking of offensives here, talking of billions – these are really the big-coalition fairy tales that must be put to an end. In Germany you go the other way. There, despite a savings package of €80 billion – which also saves with debt brakes, as we did, from Seppi Bucher already presented two years ago, and now the coalition is jumping up to implement it – last year has also provided €12 billion for research and science. In the case of basic financing, it also looks very gloomy in Austria. There you have 14.3 million € more, that's 0.5 percent. In 2010, it was €219 million, i.e. almost 9 percent, more. In 2011, the figure was 2.9 percent more. Minister, I know you have to defend the budget. But the facts speak a completely different language from what you want to announce in the coalitionary Schönsprechnung German: that you set priorities here for the future. They're going back to the future. They drive full-gas education policy into the past. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To support this: Austria will pay €7.8 billion in interest next year. For compulsory schools we spend €3.4 billion, for science and research € 4.2 billion, so in total € 7.6 billion. That is, we are investing with full force for the debts of yesterday, for the past, and completely forgetting the future. Before I come to the subject of tuition fees – I know, there are different approaches – a sentence still: This afternoon, as well as all other scientific speakers, I received a letter from the Austrian Academy of Sciences, which is certainly not close to the BZÖ. Mr Minister, if this recognized institute writes that due to the reduction of €10 million, the ÖAW believes that this development will shake trust in the modern science site of Austria at international level – at international level! – then, I believe, experts who know what they are talking about are really right in that this science policy is totally against the wall, because simply the basis for it, namely the money, will not exist, because it will be shipped in other, sluggish channels of administration and politics or sent to Brussels. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the subject of tuition fees: You know – here I have the Constitutional Court knowledge of 30. June with – you have a deadline until the end of February next year to implement it. After that, we are in a completely empty space. I would therefore like to ask you: How's that going? Today I have also invited all the other scientific speakers – I already know that you can have certain positions there – to really discuss it on the basis of facts, figures and data about it: Is there perhaps a common solution to bring about study fees in the connex with socially graded study grants during this period? Maybe you can do this together. Of all political groups – SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens, last Van der Bellen, and ÖVP anyway – there is a different commitment to study fees. I think there's a rethinking process in progress. We should use this to perhaps bring a good solution. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To conclude: The subject of tuition fees is also an important issue, which serves to bring about certain steering effects. To colleagues from FPÖ: Of course, the country of origin principle has a certain steering function, but you will not solve the problem that it has become opportune in Europe to study for free in Austria, coming from all the countries. That's the main topic. We say that the Austrian universities have first and foremost to be there with orderly conditions for the students from Austria and then only for the 60 000 students from abroad we now have, which is a quota which is bake in the international comparison. On the framework conditions: This was the money on the one hand; the second is the higher education plan. Mr Minister, I really ask you to push forward the university plan massively! It is important to coordinate the higher education landscape, to create a building guide plan, as you yourself have mentioned, to ensure the large infrastructure and to finally complete the study site funding in Konnex with the study fees. Of course, one depends on the other. A higher education plan can only exist on paper if the money for it is not available. We must therefore ensure that this is done. We also need legal improvements in the university landscape. We must ensure that we really have better career opportunities for young scientists who then also stay with us who like to make a career because they also find opportunities that they have not had so far. We must ensure that, to a certain extent, of course, excellent professors from abroad come to us. I had a very intense conversation with Professor Buchberger just recently. He shows how to get visiting professors from America and from other countries, and he also shows how to introduce up to €10,000 in study fees in Austria and still finds enough students. But these are people who come from abroad and pay us for getting a great education. This shows that this is possible. We also need a more modern service right, up to a faculty system instead of a Curia system. Mr Minister, I ask you – your predecessor referred to the fact that she favors the faculty system in the previous year, and that is what we in the BZÖ are doing: What are you doing? I haven't heard anything more about how to go on there. That means there's a lot to do. They have the greatest warners and critics in their own ranks; I am thinking only of the social partners, of the chambers, of the IV, of the Chamber of Commerce, also of the Trade Union Confederation, of the Chamber of Labour, which you are taking into account in the field of science. This government is being taken, it is urged to play the future. Take these calls seriously from your own ranks! I'll tell you one thing: The standstill which is currently taking place in the tertiary sector costs our children the future, and this government is therefore also costing the country the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38349	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38370	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 3 per cent of the increase for the science budget is above all in this new budget. We are in a very happy situation in Austria, because in spite of the economic crisis, in all the past years there have been increasing budgets for science and research, increasing budgets for universities, except in 2009, when we once had a stagnation. A stagnation, which was not due to the saving of the public hand, but to the collapse of private investment in the fields of science and research, but which succeeded in the public hand not only making up for these failures but overcompensating them. Also the expenses we can now thank God to the universities to an increased extent, Mr. Widmann, serve not only to maintain the status quo, but 46 percent of them become research effective. That means, that's new! This is new, which emerges and happens in our good universities, and this is the basis for the innovations of the next years that we urgently need. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald:... is not new!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For this I would like to thank the Minister for Finance and also the Federal Minister. But one thing is clear: In comparison with other countries, the public sector has become somewhat over-expanded. If 40 percent of research, university, innovation budgets are carried by public authorities, that's too much. In other countries – the few that lie ahead of us at the research rate, as well as the many who are behind us in the EU – it is such that it is suggested that 30 percent are financed by public authorities and that the rest come from private funds. That is to say, it is our primary task if we want to continue growing in these areas, to make even more private money available to universities for research. In my view, as far as universities are concerned – and this will certainly not make universities financially healthy – is an important area of study contributions. Not because they bring such a high financial contribution – Mrs Kuntzl has already explained to us that she is on the desperate search for more revenue; there are some on the street – but for this reason: because it is a question of justice! It is a question of justice because there are not only poor and needy students to implement a socially balanced study contribution system. It is also a question of how planned the attacks on the universities are still for the universities. – It’s quite clear: If I have to pay the study fee before, I will also go to the university I enrolled in. In any case, I can expect such a student, who does not register for five courses at five different universities. This is the minimum of planning that we also need to provide to our universities, and for this reason too, we need – of course socially suspended – study contributions. I already see that the fronts are very crumbling here, because the individual opinions in all parties are now becoming almost majority voting. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The individual opinions in ÖVP do not want any study contributions!]] If two SPÖ heads of state, Gabi Burgstaller and Michael Häupl, say that it is comprehensible to them to a socially balanced extent, if there seems to be a great division among the Greens, since the former party president Van der Bellen, who is also a specialist expert at the University of Vienna, says that it would not only be possible for him to imagine, but it would make sense, then I see that even well-known parts of the Green Party – there seems to be a deep crack through the party – could already be won for these study contributions. In this sense, I hope that we will be able to use a reasonable system as soon as possible and that it will continue so successfully with our universities, for example in the European Union's recruitment of funds, where we have now become a net recipient country: 126 percent of the return flow from what we do to the research programme is coming back to Austria. It's further upliftable. We look forward to this, and we look forward to working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38431	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Däderle, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38453	Mr President. High house! I may begin by expressing my joy that there is consensus here that science and research are a very central topic of our country's future. Some things can be built on, and this makes me confident to find similarities and partners in other things for what to do. I also agree that the consolidation measures of autumn 2010 required savings in some areas. It was my predecessor who had to do this and which I believe has done it in a very coherent way. If one saves, one prepares any pain, yes – she has tried to solve it in this way, that she has spared the core areas of her department from the savings and has simply not been able to spare some margin areas, including the alleged publication promotion for various publications. I can only say to the comfort: You can reach out to other ways. I know that, as a rector of the University of Innsbruck, I have tried to convert many expensive, costly and indispensable forms of publishing into more harmonious, modern and cost-effective forms. That goes, and so you don't have to proclaim the death of the human science. Of course, it is also true that the clinical extra burden has been causing us problems for years. Part of the analysis by Mrs Greenewald is absolutely consistent, he is an expert in this situation. I just have to say, of course, it's old laws and newer contracts on which it rests. There is a need for discussion; and we are going into the conversation, and we are trying to improve it! Thank you. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] However, I believe that I can say that especially the core areas of science and research – especially the universities, the technical universities, the research funding funds, the Ludwig Boltzmann Society, the Austrian Academy of Sciences, to which I will say something, but also the ISTA and the funding of studies – have so far been spared from any savings measures. This is a very important success of the budget policy of this department. However, we have the task of looking to the future, and we need to get future generations in this field. That is why it is very important to influence the future budgets that the corresponding volumes are made available. I think it's absolutely possible to say this for the year 2012. In 2012 the service agreements with the universities are still valid. In other words, it can be assumed that the universities are financed for 2012. You will receive a total amount of € 2.8 million in 2012. This is the largest fraction in the overall budget, rising by 1.76 percent compared to the 2011 estimate. But we also have research, we have the funding of studies, we have taught the technical universities enough. In addition, the offensives already mentioned and partially spoken about come. These offensives amount to €80 million annually by 2015. They are not paid to equal shares every year, but with these offensives we can achieve a lot more. So they do not flow into the global budgets, and they do not disappear, as was claimed, into the global budgets of the individual houses. For example, we finance 1 300 new places of study in the technical universities. We therefore finance special projects in the MINT subjects and in the mass compartments, where, due to the lack of access arrangements, universities simply have to get their resources in place in order to cope with the increased inflow. This is not an ideal solution, I know, and that is why I am very keen on the fact that universities are finally given access schemes and finally, like all other educational institutions, their capacities are allowed to live. This is a very important concern that I pursue. Unfortunately, we have to act with emergency measures, and that is what these funds are supposed to do. But above all, they are thought – and this warrants their name – for offensives in the field of MINT subjects, as we know that we have urgent needs from the economy there. They're used for this. I would like to appeal not to allow the failure and the feeling that Mrs Finanzminister's side remark would mean that 80 million offensives in Schilling would mean 1 billion a year in such a way that she would in any way have meant the negotiating university billions. I have heard this comment myself here and I know it very well in her speech. I think such an interpretation is inadmissible. That is really unacceptable. I have heard it myself here and understood the intention of this remark. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the university billion itself: I am in good negotiations with the Minister of Finance on these university billions, which, of course, should not be for 2012, but for the 2013-2015 service agreement period. Of course, we will not simply pour out these university billions with the casting pot over the universities. Of course, we must try and ensure that this money is used responsibly and efficiently, and that this money is, of course, linked to the further development of the higher education plan. This university plan, which is one of the core tasks of my work, is the future strategic instrument with which we want to further develop the universities and strengthen them. Of course, this university plan also includes funding, and in funding we have two pillars to strengthen the financial strength of the universities. One pillar is public money, but the other pillar must also be private money. We know the numbers. We currently use about 1.3 percent of gross domestic product for the tertiary sector. Of these 1.3 percent, 1.2 percent are from the public sector and only 0.1 percent are private. This is very little in international comparison – we have only half of the average in EU comparison, only one-fifth of the average in OECD comparison. So there is a need for additional resources for universities, and one of several measures, one of several sources to be discovered, are study contributions. I have developed and presented a study contribution model, which I firmly believe to be all concerned that it is socially selective – which I take seriously – to eliminate. It is a model by which no young person could only study for financial reasons. I would like to stress this very strongly – because this is important to me, like everyone here in the house and because money must not be a reason for making a decision for a study or not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This model is also linked to an expansion of the study funding, which is not currently as bad as is often said about it. It needs to be seen in Austria, especially – and this is important to emphasize – always in connection with the family allowance, which in many other countries ends up at 18 years of age, but we continue to pay to students. The number of persons involved in the study aid is at least 42 000, and that is a significant number. The average of the aid is €4 300 per year. So this is already a considerable achievement. Through numerous novelties in recent years and also through additional efforts I have made in the course of my study contribution model, it is possible to further expand this support. Another important concern is to strengthen and improve teacher training, since I will work together with my colleague, Mrs. Schmied. Good teachers are a core area of good education, of course. We have to put in a lot of strength and many ideas to carry it out in a speedy and harmonious manner. We have also placed a strong focus on the acceptance and interest in science and research in the youth. We know that in Austria the interest in science and research and also the acceptance of science and research is not as well developed compared to other countries. We start with children and young people and have a wealth of projects in this area. Some of them are groundbreaking for Europe, I can say that proudly. The children's union, for example, is now imitated throughout Europe from Austria, Innsbruck and Vienna. At “Sparkling Science”, students are familiarized with the fascination of science. We take a lot of funding money in order to advance this very successful project and thus inspire young people very early for science and research. It can be said that we have also achieved a stabilisation in the research funding programme, especially the FWF. There is a wealth of well-informed individual programs we carry out. There are additional programmes, such as clinical research, which has so far come between the various programmes and has not been adequately promoted. The Ludwig Boltzmann Society and the ISTA are in a budget position successfully. A word to the Austrian Academy of Sciences, which was also addressed by my previous speakers: It is right, for many reasons it was necessary to start a restructuring, and it is not easy for such an honorable and so self-confident institution to successfully restructure. We did it. Thanks to my extremely prodigious and energetic staff, this has been successful, and they deserve the highest praise to have done this difficult task with sovereignty. Since then, the Austrian Academy of Sciences has a new, clear, focused programme. In the future, too, it will be financed in the form of performance agreements and is therefore, for the first time, on a very safe and forward-looking path, because it has planning security because it is focused, because individual institutes are no longer carried on in it, but docked at universities. However, universities are also given some financial support for receiving these institutes. Generally speaking, this is a streamlining, a restructuring, a prophylaxis that can be absolutely described as a success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the end of the day, I can strengthen something that has already been said and proves what I say again and again: Austrian science and research, the Austrian university institutes are much better than they do, unfortunately, sometimes appear in public discourse. ==References== The European Union's framework programme is a sensational return rate, with 125 percent far above what we pay. If you know how demanding the application process is, how difficult it is to enforce itself internationally, you can see that this is a very clear and very strong quality signal from our research and science in Austria. This cannot be emphasized enough – apart from the fact that, of course, it is also a pleasant financial return, which strengthens our science and research. I would like to stress this once again, whereby we agree: We agree that science, research and education are central to the future of our country. We agree that these areas are linked to ideas, creativity and performance. We want to do this, and we have to do it in difficult times. That is why, even though we cannot be spared from the crises surrounding us, with optimism and confidence, we must look to the future with optimism and confidence, and with common forces, we must ensure that these areas in Austria continue to flourish, continue to flourish and improve. I think that is in the sense of all of us, and of course also in the sense of the taxpayer and the taxpayer, who make up a large part of these funds. We are responsible for dealing with it carefully, efficiently, but also for the future. I can only repeat my appeal: Viribus unitis, let's try it together, then we'll do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38534	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38556	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate we have heard a lot: enough is not enough, step by step approach to the ideal process and – as I was actually a little bit back - more private money. Reflectively, when the ÖVP says that, more and new taxes are expected. If that is what the Federal Minister has said, that is, within the framework of the 7. EU framework programmes for businesses and universities cooperate, work together, and work together with them to facilitate funding, then I want to leave it that way and really approve it. But if that only means that, in addition to companies, individuals should also pay more money in the university business, I cannot approve of it. Ladies and gentlemen, a first impression from these two days of budget debate has confirmed itself in the context of this university and science budget debate: We have enough money to invest it in the Greeks, in strangers, in immigrants. But we have too little money for the students. They are threatened in their existence and go out empty when it comes to studying to going on in their training. The OECD tells us quite clearly that we have too few academics, too few graduates. To do this, we have the entrance chiller phase – well, if this is the method in Austria. What is it like to look through the budget chapter? – No reduction was made, for example, for real estate, for university administration, for various renovations, for clinical extra costs and, of course, for international contracts, because they do not come out so easily. The FWF was frozen with its resources, and the funding and support for the students were reduced. Then, if one no longer has any arguments in the science debate, as the crowning of the whole woman Federal Minister Fekter, the former High Priest of the euro, comes and explains – I don't know, perhaps it was a joke or just a simple wave –: 80 million are also 1 billion, 80 million € are 1 billion schilling. So this is if one can only speak more beautifully of the budget if it is no longer about the citizens, not about the students and the universities, but only about the beautiful speeches. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, a symbolic conclusion to this whole debate: The oldest university in the German language region – I know you are always talking about the one in Prague, but: in the German language room – the Vienna University, at the same time, is the most broken. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] There the stairs crack down and students are injured, and renovated from the student's pocket of money. Mr Federal Minister, I do not know who created the budget for whom you gave it to work out. I would have expected more of you personally. What is available here is blind red-stick policy, as one could have expected from a cost-cutter or a C official.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38624	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38688	Mrs Oberhauser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38711	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I would like to focus on the question of medical universities in particular. We currently have two cases of problem, one of which is the Wiener und the second of the Innsbruck University Hospital. In Vienna we come to massive problems in maintaining the operation of the Med-Uni Wien and the AKH due to the too low funds the federal government makes to pay the doctors. This is not acute now, perhaps not 2012. The rector's statements on whether it is possible to employ the doctors, whether you need to save or not, vary considerably. But under guarantee, this happens when we continue this budget as it is, 2013. In Innsbruck we have another problem, a structural problem, which may have been further aggravated by the separation of the Medical University from the main university. Now, for the first time, voices are ringing, whether you should not reunite these things to make use of the possible synergies and synergies. That is to say, there are two major problems that concern two major medical universities. I believe that not only with money, but also with structure and other means, one can come to a solution. Mr Hakl first said that tuition fees were a question of justice. We have a different understanding of justice, Mr Kuntzl has already mentioned it. For us, it is a question of justice that anyone who has something contributes to the fact that he can live in social peace in a country like Austria. That is why it is also perfectly clear to us that we do not want to get out without property tax, without a millionaire tax and without further taxes in this area, namely, really millionaires. That is the question of justice for us. Mr Federal Minister, I believe you have tried to draw up a model for the introduction of socially just tuition fees. We don't think there can be this model, for a very simple reason: There is no legal claim to this social pot, which you mention, for example. That's another thing you depend on. We all know that as long as the aid depends on the incomes of parents, there are groups of people who can easily turn on their incomes – self-employed, but also farmers – and that there are people with wage and income tax bill, whose children often fail at very narrow limits and do not receive study aid. Mr Rosenkranz referred to the conditions at the universities. I am also in the closest family circle and know how difficult it is in questions of the Bologna process with mutual recognition of certificates. We are currently, I think, at almost half a year, if not a year that my child has lost, because it simply has not succeeded in getting something from a second country. The professor then said: That's what it's all about, but that's not what it's for. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: And also demand tuition fees for this!]] This is an eternal bureaucracy struggle, and I am perfectly with you when you criticize that you still require fees for it. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's a freak!]] The students are already being punished for losing child support because they simply need longer. Now you would still ask for fees, knowing that two thirds of students are already working without paying fees, more than 20 hours. Even though a country's main woman – the head of the Burgstaller country – says that she can befriend herself with tuition fees, Mayor Häupl has never said that. We in SPÖ can't be friends with tuition fees. One also to the colleague Hakl: Because Mr. Landeshauptmann Pröll spoke of property taxes, I am pleased that this gives in the ÖVP the willingness to tax assets in an analogous way to Burgstaller.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38764	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38786	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Däderle, I remember your opening speech, in which you have mentioned the development of the research quota over the last ten years, and have clearly stressed that it has developed positively. That's the way it is. Nevertheless, it should now be noted that this government has decided to set a target that you have set at 3.76 percent by 2020. At the moment we are 2.76 percent. The economic research institute is forecasting for 2.79 percent this year. Now comes the following: Whether or not what my fellow Members have already done, due to the lack of the budget situation, there will actually be a reduction in 2015 as the research rate will land at 2.77. Mr Minister, this is not something you can actually want. They said earlier, we are trying to work together on this objective. Our support is sure to have you. We will put forward a motion for a resolution tomorrow on the financing of the decided research strategy and, in particular, on the submission of the Research Finance Act. A research funding law, it has been decided, should have been there for a long time, but does not. But I think, Minister, that would be a major support in your work with the heart of UG 31 in the budget, science and research. Of course, in addition to the opposition parties, I would like to invite the government parties to support this very issue tomorrow. This would certainly be an important step towards strengthening planning, predictability for universities, research institutions, and a successful way forward. To the remarks of my predecessor and the Med universities. You talked about the Med-Uni in Vienna last night, the Med-Uni in Innsbruck. Upper Austria would be happy to be able to talk about it. Mr Minister, I'll be right back on this point. Studies show that there will be a medical shortage. A recent study by the European Union states that by 2020, 230 000 doctors will say and write. We in Austria in particular are affected by several factors in this field, which is so important for the quality of life of people, such as demographic development and, of course, mobility. We know, many of our students or those who actually in Austria Medicine wants to study, go to study abroad due to the procedure and then stay there. And in part it is also the completed graduates who leave Austria and go to Switzerland, Germany or other European countries to work there. This is a real challenge for the next few years. Minister! The outcome of the medical examination has been announced several times. Perhaps you can still comment today on when this is actually to be expected. But in any case, there is a broad support platform in Upper Austria that it would be important to create a suitable location, and Upper Austria has very good conditions for providing a corresponding quality as well. The third area I would like to address is women in research. Women in research are under-represented in Austria. Now we all know that this is a medium-term or longer-term issue, as it is indeed an improvement to achieve. If we assume that the students still have 54 percent of women, then the university assistants are only more than 34 percent and, as we know, at the top level of the universities at the professors only 15 percent. Of course, with the anchoring of the 40 percent quota, the UG-Novelle 2009 has certainly also achieved an improvement here. Nevertheless, Mr Minister, it is a challenge for the coming years, and in particular for the next negotiations of the performance agreement, which are in the house, because I think that this issue of women's promotion in research must be an integral part of the negotiations on the performance agreements.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38837	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38858	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The budget science we are discussing today is well known – mentioned several times – for the next year by €66 million above the value of the previous year. This is a good success for the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs and his negotiating strategy, taking into account the offensive means – €80 million will be once again secured for universities and colleges in 2012. I can only ask that we continue to support him, on the one hand, the university billion, which has been very much spoken of over the last few weeks, and that we also make another contribution – this is a contribution we can make here – that we can really think about study contributions – without ideological barriers. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] There are, of course, members of this House – Mr President Graf is obviously one of them – who do not manage to think about study contributions without ideological barriers. But I still call on all the others who may somehow be able to deal with leaving ideology away and say it doesn't make sense simply to discuss it on an objective level. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We've been talking about it for years! Against the ideology of the ÖVP!]] I believe that this would be a useful contribution to the funding of universities, because if we assume that, with a very large amount of study contributions, you could make 150 to 200 million € per year available to universities at additional resources, taking into account that social weakness does not pay any study contributions and that some of the revenue may even be used in addition to study grants, then this is an argument that cannot be swept away from the table, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to point out that we have examples here in Austria that we do not need to discuss this in the empty space, only because of forecasts. We had well-known study contributions from October 2001 to the year 2008. It has been studied several times and checked that it has not led to the fact that the number of students in society has been lowered by the universities, that it has not led to a decline in the number of students. That is to say, it has been shown that all of these fears that you express – we have found almost in a field trial for years in Austria – and that you do not have to have these fears. A second example: There is also an area of technical universities in Austria, a success model in spite of student contributions to various colleges. This too shows that these fears are unwarranted. And to our coalition partner, to Mrs. Oberhauser: For example, not only Mrs Burgstaller, but also Mr Voves, for example, have already said a positive word in principle, at least once to think about negotiating it. I think that should be an appeal to you here in the House to really consider... [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: Then we also talk about the asset tax!]] I've come to the property tax. In fact, I think it is interesting that in the entire budget debate today all the speakers of the SPÖ are constantly using the wealth tax, the wealth tax, the millionaire tax, as you call it, to finance all areas. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If this is to work, we must settle all the Austrians and bring 8 millionaires into the country instead. Then we can finance the entire budget with a millionaire tax. That's not how it's going to work, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's why my appeal again: Please go back to an objective discussion. We think about study contributions and therefore about a significant contribution to the financing of our universities. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38951	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e38973	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister Däderle! High house! Are the days of Chancellor Faymann? An interesting question. Are the days of Chancellor Faymann? [[Abg. Riepl: Just for you! Only for you are the days counted!]] As long as he is chancellor, there will be no tuition fees. It is known that Faymann has declared this issue to be the main issue. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This means that the chancellor refuses the universities a lot of money each year, namely about 150 million annually. This is almost half a billion in three years. In another two years, it will be 300 million again. These are major financial resources that are urgently needed for university operations. They're missing out on a sustainable basis. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For Greece we need that!]] It is a particularly rigid and stupid behavior of the chancellor to damage the universities. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But now the Constitutional Court allows the reintroduction of study fees. From March of next year, universities will be allowed to cancel tuition fees. If that happens, the chancellor will probably have to take the hat when he stands for his word. But we doubt this on all levels. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Constitutional Court is bringing the SPÖ into argent turbulence. Their constant no at tuition fees is enormous in spite of counter-respects and other counter-respects. Also 52 percent of SPÖ voters and sympathizers of your party are for study fees. 64 percent, a strong majority of the population, are already for the reintroduction of study fees. If you from the SPÖ were to take seriously and respect these citizens' wishes, which appear in the opinion polls, you would have to say yes to the tuition fees immediately, a clear yes to study fees. Study fees lead to a more serious and faster study. Social democracy would be well advised to take over the BZÖ requirement after tuition fees. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They from red and black, ladies and gentlemen, rob the youth of any professional perspective over universities. The dreams of the youth of career and career about a study are already suffocated when enrolled. Hard study frustration arises. This failed science policy is a lasting damage to Austria. We need to open our eyes to the students. However, for the chaos at the universities, ÖVP is primarily responsible. The ÖVP has been working continuously for 25 years in the Federal Government and at the hubs of this country. The predecessors, Hahn and Karl and you, Minister of Science, have now failed in science policy. You will also bite out your teeth at this SPÖ in the matter of study fees. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the protests and cries of the rectors are also justified. In an interview, the new president of the Schmdinger University Conference calls for a lifeguard for universities. This is a rather reasonable proposal, which can be expected to be supported by the BZÖ. We demand: Enough paid! Not a euro for pleite greeks and speculators in the banks, but a lifeguard for our universities. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Enoughly paid! But demand new fees!]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, we must note that with the new saving pressure of the failed government, the university billion is waving anyway. The universities continue to get into severe turbulence. This is where you need acute action, ladies and gentlemen. Take immediately the BZÖ requests that our science spokesman has just brought here! [[Abg. Where did you write this?]] The emphasis is on the immediate billions for higher education, the reintroduction of tuition fees and access restrictions. Copying is permitted, even for you, my colleagues from the Freeman. You as a copyer can do this without a doubt. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Only our measures guarantee that the universities will remain workshops of the future. Ladies and gentlemen and Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, put these into practice!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39073	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39106	Mr President. Dear Mr. Federal Minister Däderle! I think the discussion is already going on in such a way that in the future it will probably not be easier to finance the universities and also the colleges. I would therefore like to try to describe the importance of education from a different perspective and to underline the value of education. As an example, I bring the district of Braunau. There are, of course, several regions in Austria with similar requirements. We in the district of Braunau have two educational studies which prove quite clearly: In this region there are the worst educational opportunities for further development in Upper Austria and the second worst in Austria. Another negative factor: About 30 percent of the population have compulsory schooling as the best education. As a contrast to this, there is a very good HTL in the capital city with more than 1,000 students, which won a lot of national and international competitions by standard. This is because many innovative ideas and very good projects are simply carried out and the teachers are very committed. However, we also know from the studies previously quoted that two thirds of the young people in our region who are seeking tertiary training are no longer going to study to return to the region. This, of course, hurts us particularly as representatives of the region, especially because in the region there are a number of very significant and well-known industrial companies in international competition, for example, to name some names, the AMAG, BORBET, H.A.I., SAG, KTM, Bernecker + Rainer, and there are some more companies. Competition is extremely demanding for the research and development of individual companies, whether in the aviation industry, in cooperation with Airbus or Boeing, or also in the field of e-mobility. Therefore, a steadily increasing number of highly qualified employees are needed, which are very difficult to get. The current situation: It is currently being invested in a larger mill, 200 million € from a local plant, or in the next two years, and one is already trying to organize the training of young people, i.e. from the farms. However, the necessary resources with academic training will be very difficult to get. A perfect solution for the region would be a university with the study areas metallurgy, materials science and plastics technology. We'll get back to the beginning of my short speech. Unfortunately, it is not so easy for God to handle the issue of education. We all know that it is a cost issue, and I think that one really gives the issue of education the importance it deserves, then the ministries must also work together, perhaps across borders, to combine subsidies that involve industry, also to co-finance, or to direct funding from the EU that exists in the region on this point. I would also expect more education management in the ministry, based on the needs of the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39152	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for your support. Minister of Science! High house! Mr Minister, you have explained to us that with the old Currency, the Minister of Finance would never have said that. I now have the 19th budget speech. He was brought with him in October. There we are told about the “Sparpfad of Loipersdorf”. And then we call the future investment of €400 million. It mentions the environment, research, the development of all day schools and health care. And you know what else I see there? – “€80 million more for universities”, fat, fat, and then: “in “old” currency a university billion”, but these annually. Mr Minister, I think you might have heard something. Look at that, and you'll see that the “old” currency was actually the one talking about. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] High house! Of course, the university debate is also necessarily about the subject of tuition fees. The ÖVP has a new word. You are no longer saying any more tuition fees, but you are now talking about the study contribution model. That's what we agree with. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ can only be said that they should show a little more flexibility in this matter. What it's all about is probably the social detachment. It should never be the financial shortage of the reason for anyone not being able to study. In addition, you also keep talking about the tax on the rich. There are many children from rich homes who study. And here, I tell you, it's only right and fair that you're taking up study contributions there. There won't be a way to go. Think about a socially fair model with social suspension! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Minister also addressed the Austrian Academy of Sciences, the Austrian Archaeological Institute and also the Ludwig-Boltzmann Institute. In this context, I can show a little low Austria patriotism. The 2011 Niederösterreichische Landesausstellung on the subject of “Erving – Discover – Experience” closed on Tuesday, with a record of 556,000 visitors! [[Congratulations and bravoring at BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Carnuntum was the central theme there. And the country of Lower Austria has invested massively, has taken a lot of money into its hands, and it has once again confirmed that you get something back there. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] As I've just heard an intermediate call: There are three local mayors, one of them I was. So it doesn't always have to be the ÖVP. It does well for the country, if it is others, to take responsibility. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] The Ludwig Boltzmann Institute is responsible for the fact that during the last phase of the national exhibition, we were able to announce the non-destructive discovery of a gladiator school, which proved it, with a very large media echo from all over the world. This discovery is unique and is still a subject in the specialist circles today. Where do I want to go with this issue? – Minister, through the Austrian Academy of Sciences, the burial in Ephesus is massively supported. I already know that has long tradition, over a hundred years, but say very critically: There is a 2008 Court of Auditors report, which has been annihilated. This restructuring is likely to be a few years too late. There was an extermination of judgment. And these activities have not yet secured a single job in Austria. I can therefore ask you to take your time and ask the question of whether you should do one – I do not say that you should withdraw completely there – redistribution. In any case, Carnuntum would justify that. There is there next to this gladiator school – I just call keywords – a legion camp, unique in Europe, in the open field, the palace of the governor, archaeologically not yet explored, the forum, the port facility, I could continue this list for a very long time. I believe that this is also the responsibility of the Federation. Push You don't always turn off the financial things on the land of Lower Austria or anyone else! It would be time and would make sense – and this record visit of 556,000 visitors should also wake you up – to invest in Lower Austria. Federal Minister! To conclude: They call this budget an offensive budget. They're talking about offensives. Anyone who deals with it may come to a completely different conclusion. They make the impression to me that the new Austrian team leader, Marcel Koller, would announce at a national game the composition of the team, consisting of a goalman and ten defenders, and announce that one will now play quite offensively. Mr. Minister, think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39282	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39303	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! The priorities are clearly identified in this budget: They are the fields of education, research, science and development. That is a good thing. It is about the competitiveness of our country. Total expenditure in the field of science and research rose by €66.4 million from 2011 to 2012. In addition, this offensive programme will amount to €80 million for 2012. This will allow us to reach the 2% of GDP in 2020 with the announced university billion from 2013. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's about well established universities. To this end, Federal Minister Däderle has commissioned a university plan to further develop the Austrian university area. It is about reducing the drop-out ratio among students to increase their commitment to studying. It is about increasing the number of graduates, because it is more important to have a higher number of graduates than to have more students. We need socially just and moderate study contributions, because Austria is one of the few countries that makes the luxury of not asking for study. In contrast, we are in the leading field of those countries that spend most of the money per student for the study place. I found an interesting comment in the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten”. In it, university professor Dr. Reinhard Haller, a recognized psychiatrist and court expert, writes about the study fees: Study fees could eliminate the social injustice that workers and pensioners have to finance the training of later large earners. He writes: The strict rejection of tuition fees by social democrats and Greens is wrong in education policy, economically stupid and socially unjust. - Quote. Dr. Haller speaks to me from the soul. We have to do something about this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm coming to the colleges now. The colleges are overall a success story, and this is especially important to me as one who comes from a country that does not have a university. I am glad that through the offensive we can also further expand the courses in the field of technical colleges. The technical universities have optimal framework conditions. They're well equipped. There is good cooperation with the economy. There is a better social mix, although or precisely because of the fact that study fees can or may be cancelled. Access to technical universities is regulated. In addition, the technical universities are also firmly anchored in the higher education plan. We are aware that education, science and research are important topics for the future, and this becomes clearly visible in the budget presented.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39366	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39388	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The basis for a good future of our youth is good education, also good education in tertiary education. Much has already been said about the budgetary situation of the higher education and higher education sector. I would just like to mention that in the university field, the 2012 budget will be increased by €15 million, 0.5 percent, compared to 2011 and by €4 million, i.e. 1.8 percent. This increase is, as we see, below the current rate of inflation. That is why I believe that this is more than a wormhead drop. Of course, we would like universities and vocational colleges to receive even more funding, because – in which we all agree – investment in the education sector is ultimately investment in the future of our society and investment in the young generation. Apart from that, I think the focus of the discussion should not just be on the financial sector. Mr Federal Minister, I believe that you will face special challenges in the future. I just remember the higher education plan. This university plan is already part of the Government Convention. I would therefore like to ask you when you will present this university plan here to the High House, the National Council and thus the representation of the Supreme Sovereign, the people, so that we can discuss and find content on it. I read an article in yesterday’s edition of the “Kurier” with astonishment, but I also read an article with strangers – I quote the subtitle here –: “Study beginner – pre-register falls, the study selection consultation remains voluntary”. I am not opposed to the fact that the prior application falls, but rather to the way in which this article came about. In fact, this article shows that you have an opinion with the rectors, with which ÖH is, which is not a problem for me. But: And – I quote – the SPÖ will soon be informed about it. I would like to ask you, Minister, whether this is your view of how to deal with the coalition partner on this issue. I don't think it should be that way, but you should be informed about it in advance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I would also like to mention that, in your opinion, mandatory selection advice has already fallen before it has entered into force. I hope, Minister, that you do not remember to hold the current discussion in the UK also in Austria. In the UK, there will be rigorous savings in education budgets in the coming year, 2012. It is also a question of increasing the tuition fees from 3 000 to 9 000 pounds in 2012, thus tripled and simply deleting various courses in the university and in the college sector. Of course I ask the question in the room: How is this mandatory study guidance to be financed? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would like to invite you: Mr Minister, take an active part in the distribution debate we have held! Support us in the implementation of the millionaire tax, in so far as parts of this millionaire tax can also be used to finance this mandatory study selection advice! Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say, in contrast to my previous speaker, that I personally hope that there will not be any general and comprehensive introduction of tuition fees either in higher education or at university level in the future. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Burgenland is progressing with a good example in this regard. We do not require tuition fees in higher education and, of course, I know very well that this is not the case in other federal states. I therefore invite you, colleagues from the ÖVP, to follow this Burgenland path on the whole federal level. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39470	Next speaker: Mr Peter Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39494	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, I agree with a brief summary. We all have suggested that there should be no savings in education, science and research, we need planning and reliability. We have heard that in this area there are additional expenditure compared to the previous year amounting to €66 million, we have heard of €80 million of offensive funds in this area, decided in 2010 where these funds should flow annually. I can remind you of 2010: Loipersdorf, Sparprogramm. Nevertheless, this government has already known itself as an offensive in science and research. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to mention once again that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is optimistic about the negotiations with our Minister for Finance on the Uni billions – in Euro, of course. I can also say, however, that only money alone is not the only It's a recipe for success. There is also a need for an overall approach, a structural reform, a higher education plan. An important component of the higher education plan is for me a system of benefits and social grants, which guarantees that social weaknesses can study. You know me and my contributions to the tuition fees and you know that I am a vehement advocate of tuition fees. We need them to achieve financing and steering effects. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to take the following into account: If the universities can collect up to €500 in tuition fees autonomously, they also have an obligation to provide students with a corresponding performance. The students would, as it were, be customers of the universities. Another argument: If you know that a trained academic can expect that, when he is finished, he is one of the ministers in our society, you can also, I think, demand that someone who has a master's degree will pay 500 € each year for the four semesters, provided that he can afford to do so in the light of his social background. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] For comparison: For example, if someone is seeking a master’s training, he should be determined that this training path can cost him up to €12 000, and that is what he has to plan for. You can now discuss and say that is also supposed to be free. I am not of this opinion, because in this way we also have steering effects in training. We experience in this area that exam dates are taken seriously and the courses are also appreciated. These are also points which, I believe, are also on the Uni's subject. When I think about the audiences being overcrowded, but we have a very low test activity compared, I'm back at the point where I say: We don't need more students, but we need more graduates! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, another thought: As a member of the National Council, I count rather as the minister in our society. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] Once my three children are studying, I am also willing to pay a study contribution because I can afford it – provided that it is also offered the appropriate quality that can be required. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Contribution-free students would, of course, also benefit if I made my contributions as a server servant, which is true social justice. If one hears that there are now more and more proponents of tuition fees in the SPÖ ranks, then one can hold: The alliance of the reasonable in this country is growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39595	No one is reported in the word anymore. The discussions on this subject have ended. I am now interrupting the session by Friday, 18th. November 2011, 9 a.m. Negotiations will be held tomorrow with the consultation of subheadings 34 to 41 of heading 4: Economic, infrastructure and the environment, continued. The sitting was suspended. [[18:56:03]] [[The meeting was held on Thursday, 17 February. On November 18, 2011, at 18.56 p.m. and on Friday, 18th. ==References====External links==]] [[09:00:25]] Continued the meeting: Friday, 18. November 2011, 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39646	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the interrupted 132. National Council meeting again. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Grilling, big truck, tadler, ing. Hofer and Dr. Van der Bellen. We continue with the budget consultation. The session will be transferred to ORF III in full length. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39682	A block-time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ was decided for today’s meeting day, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 116, FPÖ 100, Green 84 and BZÖ 80 minutes. The further design of the debate is known. [[09:01:18]] Heading 4 (Economic, Infrastructure and the Environment) [[09:01:19]] UG 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research) UG 41: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39725	For advice, heading 4: Economics, infrastructure and the environment. Firstly, we shall proceed to the negotiation of subheadings 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research), and 41: Transport, innovation and technology. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. First, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek just enters the meeting room and hastens to the speaker's desk.]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39758	Good morning, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, we are dealing with the budget today, even though the Committee of Inquiry has previously agreed to deal with the budget, first of all with the budget for transport, innovation and technology. And there is indeed something to note about this budget and its contents. I'm starting with a plane on the subject of traffic, with the Austro control. I have already noted in the last few days that there are misstatements about the acquisition, extension and so on, but we also have to deal with a constitutional rescue helicopter regulation. This has been clearly reported in the media, and we have the problem – and the ÖVP has been a little asleep – that we are now looking forward to complaints, where the excluded companies now complain after a successful constitutional court judgment for distortion of competition and also for damages. That is to say, the reserves of the resort in this area can no longer be written and used positively, but they have their real purpose of being used for office liability and for the like. It shouldn't have been that way, you could have prevented that. Get away from the Austro Control with the air traffic control tasks! That's partly pointless, it's too expensive. There we – and I am glad, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have already pledged a willingness to talk – need to discuss a lot more. Continue with the fly: Yesterday in the media it was heard that a certain Comtel Air stopped in Vienna and passengers had to pay off their cash so that the company could continue to fly so that the plane could fly on. I do not know what the owner of the Comtel, Mr Bhupinder Kandra – according to the motto: “Please ask the Indian!” – for friends – does he have them in BMVIT and thus in SPÖ, or does he have them in the judicial resort and thus in the ÖVP? – but this man is a disgrace for Austrian aviation, this man is damaging the Austrian aviation location, and it cannot be that he continues to retain his license, and it cannot be that he is still spared by the justice, that he is allowed to work and in the face of the damage he has done – and he has already left a million damage for the third time! – did not enter. That doesn't belong, that's disgraceful, you have to step in! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And a third topic on flying: Mrs Bundesminister, in the Committee's deliberations on the budget, you said in your answer to Mr Bartenstein's questions that there would be an in-depth monitoring and that there would be no increase in the flight frequency for Emirates, but it was a continuation of the summer flight plan. Mrs Bundesminister, I know how the Committee's hectic attitude has been, I assume that you probably got a note prepared in the cabinet, but he or she has prepared this paper didn't want to do you anything good, because this answer was such that she was created either absolutely without knowledge or that she wanted to lay an egg for you. It is not true that there has been no increase in flight frequencies. A year ago, the Emirates came at seven frequencies, and now it's at 13. This is also the reason that she finally cancelled a call date, the negotiation date. I could imagine that the Emirates will be reduced to seven flights from March onwards. And then you'll see how ready the Emirates will be and if you won't cancel in advance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the meantime, please, it is also known why this non-decision has fallen. The non-decision did not come from your place of business, but – you really have to break it on the tongue – there was a call from the Federal Chancellery. That is to say, Mr Faymann, who in his time as a transport minister did not bring together anything for two years, called at BMVIT and let the Emirates fly 13 times now. It can be, please, not really! You really have to step in there, that's changed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now enough of the flying. – It will probably be so that Mr. Martin Gross of the Emirates will call me back and object. Now to the street, to the ASFINAG: At present, it is true that the ASFINAG makes profit distributions and that after a long period of time, the ASFINAG will then be power-free from the state and will only balance positively, but only more. It is, of course, an academic discussion, but I could imagine that the ASFINAG is not currently making any dividend payments, no payouts, but therefore much earlier than It is not possible to find a solution to This discussion can be conducted. I know that a Federal Minister thinks in stages other than a member of the board – a member of the board thinks in one or more terms of the board, the Federal Minister thinks out of the need in legislative periods. However, this is a subject that should be discussed. Now on the third topic on transport, on the rails, on the ÖBB: I would also ask the colleagues from the EIA and the other political groups to have a more honest and realistic debate, because it cannot be said that the ETUC is always just about debt, because the ASFINAG also has debt. Of course, there is another kind of deposition, but one is going to overthink the real problems. The ÖBB are now the head office of the Republic of Austria in the rail sector, they are the leading company for Austria. And if you are always talking about debt with the ÖBB, then you do not get to the real discussion, because this management company has to be quite competitive, and these ÖBBs are quite positive against the new candidate who starts to drive on the west railway line at the beginning of December. But they can only be positive if they can be realistically compared and if this comparison is properly drawn and not always hung on the infrastructure side, on the big debts, but which come from railway construction, tunnel construction and so on. I think I am not just making a few people inside here – for example, Mr. Graf or Secretary General Vilimsky – a joy when I say: The company has smoker parts! It should also be considered whether it does not reintroduce smoker parts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the last chapter, to the chapter Technology: Mrs Bundesminister, we have decided on a very good research strategy this year, and this has also been blessed in the Council of Ministers. Only where I lack the faith in terms of realization, that is always in the field of money. Of course, in the case of the finances, it is true that it was in the good tradition of the Finance Ministers or in this case the Minister of Finance, who first decides the matter, but then is squeaky with the funds. Therefore, to support and help something, I make a request for streamlining, minimizing administrative costs and bring them herewith: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Bundesminister, there is a lot to save, there is above all a lot to do and to implement. There's no reason not to do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39890	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39937	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e39958	Good morning, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The economic environment in which it was important to create the budget for the next year was anything but simple. Nevertheless, it has succeeded in creating and shaping a forward-looking and socially balanced budget. The balance between consolidation and urgent investment has been successful. By increasing investment in education, research and infrastructure, the 2012 budget can set the right and forward-looking measures for more growth, jobs and environmental protection. In doing so, ladies and gentlemen, investment in infrastructure is a very essential support for the economy and also contributes to the fact that Austria has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. The budget of BMVIT will be increased to €2.9 billion in 2012, and more than €2.2 billion of it will flow into the rail. This, ladies and gentlemen, is of vital importance for the future, including the economic location of Austria, and ensures tens of thousands of jobs permanently. This money will promote both the expansion of international axes and the implementation of regional projects. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The massive modernisation of the road, which I have already mentioned, but especially the railway infrastructure in Austria, will continue immediately in 2012. From 2011 to 2016, total investments in the rail sector amounted to € 12.8 billion. About half of these will be invested in the inventory network. This ensures the ongoing renovation and maintenance of approximately 5,000 kilometres of the existing rail network, thus ensuring safe operation in the future. Work on the 2025 target network is also ongoing. A high-performance railway infrastructure with 30 percent more capacity is to be expected. Ladies and gentlemen! Special priorities will be the further expansion of the West and South Railways as well as the Brenner axis. The elimination of all slow-track trains in the core network ensures the high punctuality and high quality of the railway operation in the future. It is also very much to be welcomed in financial terms that the EU Commission has decided to include the South Railway in the Trans-European Transport Network. This confirms the successful and consistent policy of our Federal Minister Doris Buresauch from the European side. Ladies and gentlemen! The expansion of the infrastructure is crucial for the future of our country. In times of scarce financial resources, the use of the money is particularly targeted. The top priority must be to have a well-developed public transport network and, most importantly, to shift freight from road to rail. Then: This will not only benefit the environment, but it will also create thousands of jobs, as I have already mentioned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40009	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40031	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a big problem, Mrs Minister, with all that my colleague Heinzl has presented, with all that you have repeatedly presented, a big problem, which is naturally related to what Mrs Fekter and all of us discussed two or three days ago. The big problem is “debt brake” on the one hand and “Schuldenberg” on the other. I do not need to say much about the debt brake – it has already been discussed, so there is a whole process – but I would like to show you the debt mountain again today. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a graphic, which I copied from a Court of Auditors report – financial statements. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] Here you can see the repayments of the Federal Government for infrastructure investment, as they have been done so far, in bright yellow color. This has been paid so far and has been burdened by our budget. In Orange, you see the projects in the field of infrastructure investment – only with the ÖBB, I still have to add – to a degree of annuity grants, which in 2018, 2019 and 2020 make up an annual, Mr. Kopf, €1.8 billion. Fortunately, my colleague, he already writes. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I'm writing something else!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] – But that's only the 75 percent that's out of the league. That is why I have added a second supplement made in the Violet color, which is the repayments for the ÖBB's infrastructure investments to be made from the ÖBB's budget. And you all know how it looks with the budget of the ÖBB. They all know that we do not write positive, black figures here, but that at the ÖBB some sub-contractors are budgeting in a balanced way, some are strong in the minus, and the overall yield of the ÖBB is not such that one can afford it. If someone proves the opposite to me, I'll change my mind right away. Mrs Minister, I measured it extra in centimetres and millimeters: That's what comes to you, that's the future budget burden, the future debt mountain finally – initially taken up by the ÖBB, ultimately by the Federal Government, through the Republic, through our entire budget. That's the reality! And at the same time, introduce the debt brake! How is that supposed to work together?, I'm asking. Please, everyone and anyone who will be in the government between 2014 and 2042, I honestly say: These governments have to provide these financial benefits – or propose funding! And I would like to know that you too, Mrs Minister – you are not Minister of Finance, so I have also discussed this issue with the Minister of Finance Fekter – how this should be financed. I will try to make a brief financing proposal now if we already want to build it: We are only going to do so if we remove privileges in the transport sector! And we know that, purely from the tax subsidies and tax advantages, many areas of truck and passenger transport are subsidized and financed. That's the problem! There is also an expert round and my colleague, Mr Walser, will present this in detail. If you want to invest all of this – in favour of the country of Carinthia, in favour of the country of Styria, in favour of the state of Tyrol, because these are regional desires that lead to this investment mountain – if you have to do all this, you have to consider how you finance it. Finally, please pull the brake, not only the debt brake, but also the subsidy brake, pull the privilege brake in the transport area too! I only call it a short time by name, it is also known by studies: €1.6 billion, Mrs Minister, is the annual subsidy of the service and company cars sector. Every year we will spend €1.8 billion on ÖBB in the future – €1.6 billion has been spent for years and days so that it is tax-effective in the business and service cars sector. If you want to invest, you first have to pull the brake in this area. Mrs Bures, in detail, in the transport budget some things have developed for the better, there is more for the public services, some other concerns are also positive, but you finally have to solve the basic financial problem properly, because only, as before, decisions, orders and floorings, that will really lead us to the fall of debt from 2014, 2015. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40088	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40110	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs Moser, unfortunately, you are right in a lot, and I agree with you in your analysis what the ÖBB debts and, above all, their future development are about to do. As far as the other part of your statement is concerned, I am not of your opinion that the truck and car drivers of this country should be involved. Here, continue to put your head in the sand and pretend to be nothing to do with us in the years 2020 to 2025, that would be irresponsible – and this also goes to your address, Mrs. Federal Minister! Let's just look at the year 2012, that's dramatic enough in terms of development ÖBB financing, ladies and gentlemen. €4.8 billion in taxpayer cash benefits go a total towards ÖBB. In addition, €2.3 billion in liabilities. It has also been said: The fact that the federal government is responsible for the ÖBB today is that the payments made by the taxpayer to the ÖBB via the budget are the same as the Amen in prayer. In this way, we think that about 10 percent of the federal budget or around 1 000 € per head and nose go to the ÖBB. That, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly too much. Mrs. Federal Minister Bures, you, as the responsible transport minister, say today according to “Standard”, a sale to Deutsche Bahn would be absurd, an AUA-Schicksal you want to save the ÖBB. – Well, then you have to act in good time so that we do not face this situation in a few years, and therefore there is only one thing: Debt brakes, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, not for the state alone, but also for debt brakes, if not emergency brakes, at least debt brakes, even for the ÖBB, now! There, too, needs to be saved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] If it is necessary, is it necessary – I already know that you are an ÖBB protagonist and contributor –, ladies and gentlemen, that in Austria we invest four times as much in the infrastructure of the railway as the Germans? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: No, not at all!]] Once you drive with ICE from Frankfurt to Berlin, drive from Hamburg to Munich, so much worse they are not. And I won't let the topography apply on my own. Is it necessary for us to invest 230 € per head and nose each year in Austria, while the Germans come out with 53 €? – I say no! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Not for nothing, Mr Heinzl, the Coalition Convention provides that 10 percent of infrastructure expenditure should be saved. I say that you haven't brought 10 percent up to now, but if we need the debt brake now so that we can get triple A and don't have to make billions more for payments for our interest rates, then we should not save 10 percent, but at least 25 percent on the ÖBB's infrastructure investment budget. This means saving money in the short term, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] Secondly, Perhaps this is also a window of time, a moonlight, that Mr. Haberzettl goes and Mr. Hebenfreit is coming. [[Abg. Haberzettl: A steirer!]] Perhaps Mr. Kern now has an opportunity at the social partners level to finally negotiate a reasonable right of service, a right of service, which, for example, does not require €2 billion of tax payments for ÖBB-pensionists, which does not make provision for 208,000 people – 208,000, ladies and gentlemen – to travel freely with the ÖBB. Where else is there such a thing that all who once had anything to do with the ÖBB, including their family members, have free rides? At least taxes are now paid for them. Perhaps we still experience this together that ÖBBler once has a retirement age, which is not five or six years below the normal Austrian, namely at 52 years. Perhaps there is a modern right to serve, perhaps there is a chance to do so now. A third area, where it is possible to save, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen: Who says that public services in a volume of more than €700 million will have to benefit the public sector only?- Oh, my God! I am convinced that if anyone – that does not have to be Mr Hazelsteiner – complains, he will be right by the Commission and the ECJ. It is not a monopoly that exists, it is not provided for by European law that this can only be the ÖBB. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] That will be very often the ÖBB, Mr Heinzl, but not always the ÖBB. Mrs Bures, you are not very charming about the paper today, namely the ÖVP: “Because they don’t know” – they don’t say “what they do,” but you say – “what they want,” and you’re talking about the need for an increase in capital for the ÖBB. If you, as the owner of the ÖBB, believe that the ÖBB needs equity, then I must point out that there is a third in addition to the two possibilities outlined by you. I'm telling you that because of my other background knowledge. You say either the owner pays and the funds come from the budget, or you have to sell the ÖBB. There is also a third possibility, and that is the sale of non-commercial assets. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] Schuster, stay with your performance! ÖBB is intended to provide transport services and does not have to generate electricity. One can, for example, sell power plants, a few hundred million euros are redeemable from this title. In the short term there are interested parties in Austria who would like to take over this very much. So if it needs equity for the ÖBB, then sell non-commercial assets, such as power plants. Perhaps it is we who know what we want, while you, Mrs Federal Minister, are not yet fully aware of your will-making.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40224	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40245	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Heinzl said that it would be a forward-looking budget in the 2012 budget for the transport sector. [[Abg. Heinzl: Right!]] I have to disagree. [[Abg. Heinzl: No!]] This is the continuation of a missing transport policy over the last decades, which can be said quite openly. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole thing – this missing transport policy – was already happening among SPÖ ministers when Austria joined the EU. At that time we were misnegotiated, and we are still fined for the outcome of these false and incorrect negotiations today. I will show you a few examples from the west to the east, where it is happening everywhere in Austria. You have spoken here about the shift of heavy traffic or the loads – transport lobby – from the road to the rail. I'm telling you, this works theoretically, but practically not. The problem is that the necessary rail infrastructure is not there. Let's start in Western Austria, you've done this this week under another topic here for a short time. There is an EU-wide transport line between Bludenz and Verona. The Brenner Base Tunnel is a clear must for moving heavy traffic to the rail for transporting the goods on the rail. But – and now we come to the point – there should be a corresponding route from the South German region to Tyrol, and this one does not exist and will not exist in the foreseeable future. It will always be invested in railway stations, new buildings will be set up, and in order to keep the passenger effort as low as possible, everything will be done in such a way that the citizen, for example, can solve his ticket himself, but will forget that in these railway stations, a rail will be developed in such a way that freight traffic can be parked in between. It's not possible. In Vorarlberg, for example, the route between Lindau and Bregenz is run one-way, and the station also offers no way to park a 750-metre freight train between. By the way, this is the case throughout Vorarlberg, apart from Wolfurt, where the freight station is far too small and places out of all the seams. – So you can forget your theory, which you imagine here! The same applies partly to Tyrol. Even in the Tyrolean Oberland, the corresponding capacities are not available. – So much for that. Another area that does not work is the management at the ÖBB. First of all, it is far too expensive, second, there are many people busy there who have everything else in mind to make a reasonable transport policy. At this point I would like to deliberately exclude the “small” ÖBB staff in the lower areas, which really work well. You have to say that. [[Demonstratative condolences and congratulations of Deputies Mag. Josef Auer and Haberzettl as well as the congratulation of Abg. Neugebauer.]] These ÖBB staff work well and reliably, but in German they always have the “butter on their heads” because the management doesn’t work. And the management is already a bit influenced by the union, Mr Haberzettl, even if you give me applause. That's just fact, it's a lot of trouble. It should be done, Mrs Minister, and I hope it will be so in the future that the much money, the much tax money that flows to the ÖBBB, will also reasonably be used for good projects, of which the citizen, the taxpayer also has something, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to address something that does not taste to me at all in the transport policy, and that leads us to the other end of the Austrian state. I have heard with gladness that the A 4 – a demand from us that has been in the room for a long time and has been supported with various requests – is being extended a lot. But what I don't understand is that only Lower Austria, where the black head of state Pröll reigns, benefits. That is, until Fischamend is extended threefold, and the rest will leave itself again. We know exactly that a lot of commuters come from Burgenland who are in traffic every day when the axis is blocked if there is an accident or something else happens. It is therefore necessary to extend to the Hungarian border. Why is it not being done? I say that to you, and that is why I should like to speak to the truck transports again. If today in Burgenland the truck toll for 40 kilometres is the same as for the route from the Hungarian border in Burgenland to Linz, then something is wrong with the road cost directive, ladies and gentlemen! We must try to get the little one Transport becomes cheaper and we where there is the possibility where the capacity is sufficient to shift to the rail, the charges are slightly expensive, so that more is transported on the rail. At the moment, that's not the case, there's a lot of things going wrong. Mrs. Minister, you have to clean up at your place of business! As it works, former BZÖ Transport Minister has already shown you. We have shown a wide view with the Alpine-Adriatic axis, which is forced by the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You triggered the debt mountain!]] Projects such as this Alpine-Adriatic axis, which includes the coral tunnel, which you have always used – in good Vorarlbergerisch – which includes the Semmering Base Tunnel, which you have always pumped, which is necessary to ensure that the whole works, are favorited by the EU. We have decided correctly that we liberals are making reasonable transport policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40322	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40344	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! I should like to address you directly, Mr Bartenstein. Let's talk about the indebtedness of the infrastructure in the company ÖBB. – You should also mention that due to your debt relief action for the ÖBB, 5 billion are left in debt! Likewise, that in reality there is still a huge investment need to find rails with the k. u.k. eagle today, i.e. in reality an ancient infrastructure where there is enormous need for renewal, and you have a large share of responsibility because your party – and that has been mentioned in recent days – has always been a government party. But now there are some things about the right to serve. The question of pensions is an extremely interesting question, Mr Bartenstein. If I remember correctly, you're a co-author of the Federal Railway Pension Act. All that you have criticized here from the speaker's desk, you have written yourself and decided in a conservative government phase. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] You have created the Pension Act, but you do not say that you have written 50 percent higher pension contributions for railways at the same time. To the right to serve, Ladies and gentlemen, it is to be said that we have a new collective agreement, and it ultimately applies to the ÖBB the same rule as throughout the economy, and especially you should know that new legal frameworks are effective for new entrants. A regulation in this field was made in 1995 and also in this year 2011. One more thing about pension legislation, and I have to say, I'm a little surprised now and I'm going to do something I never wanted to do, but you're forcing me to do it: Let us talk about the farmers, let us talk about agriculture, let us talk about the tax privileges of agriculture in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] While you and your Minister of Finance are chipping the railways in the field of property, give away At the same time, they are tax-free – apparently even unlawful – to your agriculture! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] While criticizing the pension privileges of railways, finance to a great extent the pensions in agriculture! [[Abg. Hornek: You must also say that the railways' pensions are four times as high!]] While you are demanding the railways to introduce self-hold, in the field of agriculture there is, in fact, a health insurance privilege that has grown! I'd say to you, Finally clear your cabin before criticizing other professional groups! - Yes, from you, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: This is last-class, Mr Haberzettl!]] It is actually shameful in what form the ÖVP is pursuing a professional group here. That is not worthy of this republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40437	Mrs Winter has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40458	Madam President. High house! Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology! At the end of the budget debate, it is all the louder, as I would like to say. I would say that whenever something is to be decided together, the cross-party point of view is: Let's pull one strand, we're all in a boat! I would like to change that, I would like to say: Together with the Austrian population, we all sit in a boat – not just in a boat, but in a train. This train passes through unlimited railway crossings at the speed of the sail. These are for us administrative reform, health reform, federal army, debt brakes and, and, We are guessing on these debt rails really unabsorbed towards Athens. For us from the opposition, these last days have been very unsatisfying because we are forced to take part in this move, where the government determines the pace. While we point out where the red lights are, where the stop-signs are, you determine the pace and go unobstructed over all our warnings, our proposals and also the thoughts of the population. You think that the European state or centralism is your goal. .I'm telling you, you didn't do anything. Such a budget with such negative and threatening future prospects has not deserved Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To talk briefly about the Styria: The Styria has had such considerations, has not deserved a budget to that extent as you have described it. Although the transport route Graz–Salzburg is now regulated, there is an infinite need for the federal state. On the one hand, your own country councillor Vollath €600 000 from her area, the country of Salzburg €200 000 and our state councillor, short-lived €300 000, although he has such a limited budget, that he can hardly improve the impact holes on the way to Mariazell, for example. Another question, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: What about your initiative to discover Austria with 9 €? How does this affect the Styria, how does this affect the connection? This is also a prerequisite for long-distance trains. In this context, I would also like to focus briefly on gender budgeting, because you, Mrs Minister, have meant that you are spending €5.3 million on gender budgeting in your budget. – Mrs. Hosek is very committed and repeatedly says that she is the one who wants to bring people into technical professions and research with “mute!” and “FIT”. Wouldn't it be possible to transfer a budget there with a little bit of self-congregation and self-congregation? In this context, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] To get to the hustle and bustle of the past: In this context, Mr. Frühpensionist Haberzettl is also sitting here, a railway trader, who now retires relatively early at 56 and leaves the ÖBB staff exactly when she needs it urgently. [[Abg. Rädler: For railers late!]] I would just like to refer to the technical centre of the ÖBB, where 404 out of 542 people will be released. That, I think, is absolutely not the right policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40544	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40599	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40620	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Every tenth – every tenth! – The Federal Tax Euro goes to the ÖBB. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Josef Auer.]] The spectators should decide for themselves whether €4.8 billion a year – cash, that's not what's going on in addition to liability for the ÖBB – that's what they want, ladies and gentlemen. Every tenth euro – you can count through there – into the ÖBB. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: That's not true!]] Whoever has not yet understood that we need a debt brake for the ÖBB has not yet understood the situation of our state and has not taken it seriously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: That also means no burner base tunnel, no... and no coral tunnel! What does ÖVP not want?]] On average, ÖBB staff continue to retire at 54 years of age. And yes, Mr Haberzettl, you were an excellent trade unionist for the ÖBB – eternally sorry that you are no longer there – on the other hand, I would wish – and for this it would be high time for you – that now, since you are no longer in the union, you should belong to the High House and serve the well-being of all citizens, the attitudes you had about your long activity in the ÖBB, namely to protect the ÖBB-Friends to the detriment of the entire population, finally put an end to it and that you too learn from the mistakes of the past. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Incredible! Such a...! Incredible!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[==References====External links== Binder-Maier.]] I was not in politics yet, as the former Minister of Transport told us one at a meeting: The secret head of the ÖBB has always been Haberzettl, and it is incredibly difficult for me to implement reforms there. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Shame!]] I remember: Minister One wanted to introduce a locating training so that even for private railways locusts outside the ÖBB are trained so that the competition has a chance to drive on the Austrian track. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Binder-Maier and Mr Königsberger-Ludwig.]] In addition to the public service contracts, as they were now concluded and which represent a complete obstacle for private contributors to be successful in the Austrian market and to be active for the benefit of users, it is also difficult to imagine! – to obtain a locating guide only in the case of pension rights and all the benefits of the ÖBB, if only the training can be done within the ÖBB. Mrs. Bures, even if you have now entered into a contract with the Austrian Federal Railways for ten years, which provides for cost increases of 6 to 8 per cent per year, while in Denmark, for example, a service contract also requires an efficiency increase of the railway, where savings of 30 per cent are possible, then God's will, a 10-percent savings, a debt brake, will also be possible with the ÖBB, and we will be able to modernise infrastructure without golding any rail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40749	Mrs Bures has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e40770	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the first place, I would like to make a few fundamental comments and return to the heart of the budget debate, namely: What do we plan to do, how will Austria develop in the future? I know that there is this standstill that a budget is the programme that has been put into figures, but I think that in economically difficult times with these great challenges, before which we are all in common, it is really crucial what measures we are taking at any time. In this respect, I consider it with the OECD, with the Wifo and with the IHS: It is not about a state, a country, Europe being broken down with the lawn mower, but about saving in order to implement consolidation, but also about intelligent investments in future issues and the challenges of the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] In the past, we have already fulfilled this with life – it was pointed out in the debate –: Why does Austria not have the break-ins, which unfortunately are other European countries, when it comes to growth? Why, fortunately, does Austria have the lowest unemployment in all of Europe? This has to do with the fact that in difficult times, in 2008 and 2009, we clearly said: [[Abg. Dolinschek: Because we have so many early pensioners!]] It is about investing in research, technology development, investing in the development of a modern, environmentally friendly infrastructure! We have tightened up economic packages and put in place measures that have also included the future issues in the budget, and this has actually led to success. Investments have led to employment, to the lowest unemployment in Europe, and investment in research and technology development have led to a massive strengthening of Austria's research site in difficult times, and those companies that have continued to invest in research and technology together with us are also those who have no job losses and still have a nose in many segments in the technology sector today. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: (Applause) That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the discussion of the question of a debt brake is important because it is about that we also need the highest credit quality, because it makes no sense that money flows into interest rates. [[Abg. Strache:... you'll be in the near future!]] Rather, it is about having scope for action, and having scope for action means investing in important areas and achieving an intelligent mix of investments and smart savings. As far as my budget chapter, i.e. infrastructure, innovation and technology, is concerned, I have made great efforts to achieve this objective of this intelligent mix of investments and smart savings. – I start with investment in transport, innovation and technology. Of course, we can ask ourselves the question: Is it necessary for the Federal Railways to invest so much? Is it necessary, Mr Bartenstein, that we spend so much money on expanding the infrastructure? – This is a legitimate question, but then we have to deal honestly with each other in the answer. [[Abg. Strache: Is the Semmering Base Tunnel necessary?]] We say that in the case of infrastructure investments, more than every other euro goes into existence, that some – it has been pointed out – 100-year-old inventory network is modernised, that we do not have slow travel routes that require the commuters to get into work too late and that the train has to slow down to 30 km/h. More than every second euro of this investment is used to modernise our current rail network and make targeted investments there. – This is important so that in the future, too, the students who have commuters have a good offer of public transport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, in the second half of the investments, we can ask ourselves whether we need so many new construction projects in the area of rail. – But if we say together – these are always joint discussions – yes, we want to modernise 100 railway stations in Austria, we want the railway stations in Austria to be accessible to people with disabilities, we want the railway stations in Austria to be energy efficient and heat-inhibited!, then we also need to invest there. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Disabled!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, but you can reach that with!]] When we say, Yes, we want to relieve Tyrol of transit, in Tyrol we want to shift from road to rail!, and we decide to build this corridor and thus the Brenner base tunnel, yes, then the investment to which we have to confess. This also applies to the Baltic-Adriatic axis, to European corridors and to the south railway, whether it is the Semmering base tunnel or the coral tunnel. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: has to do something about it, not just the state!]] What's not going on is to say: Yes, we want the Brenner Base Tunnel, yes, we want to expand the West Railway, yes, we want to expand the South Railway, but, no, we don't want to pay anything! - That's not possible, everyone knows! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, but you must also have a financing concept!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Yes, but she is right: With earth apples we will not be able to pay the Brenner Base Tunnel!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, if you say A, you have to say B. We say, and I am convinced that this is investment in environmentally friendly transport – the challenge of the future! - it's okay. I am also convinced that these investments will not only create employment today and will provide a modern infrastructure tomorrow, but will probably be the largest environmental projects – in all discussions on climate change and global warming. If we look at this, it is too little, Mr President, that at all the stations that we open, Members of all the parties are the first in line to cut the band or make the groundwork – that is too little! – but you really have to stand up for these investments with clear funding. And these are investments over 30, 50 years old – today we have a railway that is over 100 years old – with clear funding rails: We have framework plans, we have financing plans. And, as has already been said, I believe that today we must set the course in terms of the quality of environmentally friendly and also manageable mobility in Austria. With regard to the second area addressed, every tenth euro of the budget has been mentioned over and over again. – So if you open the budget issue, then there is €70 billion in annual budget, so to speak, and in our area there are 2.5 billion. A lot of money! A lot of money for public transport, for which I call myself, but 70 billion and 2.5 billion? That's not every tenth euro. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer]] I really want to see us in the area, because it is too important, it is not a populist discussion, but it is a serious issue for us to deal with. [[Abg. Hornek: You must tell the Lord Haberzettl!]] This question of infrastructure investment is very important in terms of employment and economic location, especially in economically difficult times. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this also applies, of course, to driving by train. Building's not a self-evident! It is not a question of putting some tracks through the area, but of having a shift policy, and of transporting people and goods on these tracks and not sitting on the truck on our highways through the area. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: The freight traffic is stopped by the train! There's no more of that!]] If we want to be driven there, you also have to confess that we are driving more miles than ever. With 95 million miles of rail each year, Austria has as many trains as it has never been in the Second Republic. Today, so many – and more and more satisfied – people are driving the railway in Austria as never before in the Second Republic. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Then take a pendulum train! You've never been there before!]] We have prices – for senior tariffs, for student tariffs, for student tariffs, for family tariffs, for disability tariffs – with which we are exemplary throughout Europe. You have to take money in your hand, but the money is well invested, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Then why is no advertising made? No one knows!]] – You can still speak. So while some have come out in the discussion today and have said that these are debts – it is free to everyone, as one calls it – I think that I am more concerned with the IHS, with the Wifo, with the OECD, who say these are investments in the environment, in the economic location, in employment, in security and in the quality of life of the country. That is why I am also the minister responsible for this investment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Of course, the question of saving is also very important, because it concerns all of us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] As far as the Ministry of Infrastructure is concerned, we fixed savings of 555 million euros, more than half a billion euros, by 2015. We have also budgeted €250 million in savings due to the 2012 budget and also the large consolidation effort. We have, even as far as the administration in the house is concerned, such a slender structure as it has never been: I reduced the sections, we also have declines in the department head. [[Abg. Grosz: For that, you will be back on track! You pay for this now again ads!]] That is to say, to save where the administration is concerned, without reducing quality, I think it is right – as I have said – to take over half a billion savings needs so far and next year again a quarter of a billion euros, which we will assume with great commitment, but also with great responsibility. [[Abg. Grosz: And what about inserating? Public relations!]] I would like to comment very briefly on a very important issue, which is closely related to the detailed discussion on transport policy, economics and employment, namely on the field of applied and economic research, because these are also the topics of the future. We have identified four key challenges in the field of applied research. [[Abg. Grosz: Is that being advertised?]] We have the field of environmental and energy technologies as a priority of promotion. We have taken the area of mobility – also in the context of environmentally friendly mobility – as the second priority. We have modern production technologies because we want to keep the production site even with new intelligent technologies in Austria, as a third priority and of course defined the topic of information and communication technologies as the fourth area. It would now take the time to show what these research investments offer and where we demonstrate excellent results everywhere, so also the chance that companies invest in research and technology, the chance to have a marketable product soon, with which we, as Austria, are back in global competition – whether that is in the field of e-mobility or that is in the field of passive homes, where we are Europe's peak, almost world peak in technology. Thus, we have many areas where the cooperation of politics or public authorities and the economy has succeeded in ensuring that Austrian companies are world market leaders and that Austrian companies can therefore also offer many people a high-quality job and employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take all the individual measures and discussions, for example on the question of air rights – it was, of course, not a note, but it is true that this airline had as many flights in the summer timetable as it now has in the winter timetable – in addition to all these important topics, which I am also very passionate about with all the Members of this House, I would say that this budget for the area of transport, innovation and technology shows that it is not about a debt brake with the lawn mower, but about saving wisely and investing wisely – and this mix is possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41092	Mrs Lichtenecker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41113	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs. Minister, I can fully underline this: We need intelligent investments, but tunnels and investment in concrete are not the intelligent investments we need, but rather something else! Intelligent investment is investment in education, research, innovation and technology, and this, Mrs Minister, we are very much missing in this budget! Even in the UG 34, for which you are responsible, there are minimal increases, but in the end they are completely relativized by the inflation rate. This, however, Mrs Minister, is a problem if the Federal Government and you are always responsible for promoting: Austria must become an innovation leader, it must be one of the innovative, modern economies in order to be competitive in future in international competition. A strategy is being developed: “The Way to Innovation Leader – The Federal Government Strategy”. It lays down that the objective is to achieve the target that the research rate will be 3.76 percent in 2020, and it states that there is a research funding law. But what do the naked numbers show? – The naked figures show that the budget path next year, 2012, and by 2015 is far away from this goal! The experts at the Economic Research Institute demonstrate that there is an annual gap of more than €400 million by 2015 that separates us from the achievement of this objective. Mrs. Minister, even in times of saving and saving, it must be clear that it is precisely in this future area that it is necessary to make predictability and planning for companies and universities. This strategy also set out a research funding law. Today, in your statements on rail and transport infrastructure, you have said that we need a clear financing plan for infrastructure investment. Here you emphasize what has been stated in another strategy adopted by the Federal Government eight months ago. However, the Research Finance Act is not mentioned at any rate. The only thing to say here is that a small sentence is inserted in the answer to the questions: A Task Force is set up, so to speak, the modern version of the fast force. However, there can be no mention of this quickly, ladies and gentlemen. Rather, you approach this with absolute delay. Ms Bures, you stress in your budget for research, innovation and technology that environmental and energy technology play an important role: Nevertheless, I believe that increased attention should be paid to energy research and modern developments in this area and that the focus should be extended. Finally, I can assure you that we will also call for exactly what this government has announced and decided to do, namely a research funding law to ensure the implementation of the research strategy. We are going to put forward a resolution on this today, and we will also make a test of whether ÖVP and SPÖ support what their government has already decided to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41164	Mr Hell has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41186	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hakl, your personal attacks and opinions against Members Willi Haberzettl must be rejected! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not think it is right if there are any more factual arguments to resort to such words. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Your “argument” with the training places for drivers is not correct, and I would like to put it right here again: There are many possibilities in Austria to train drivers. It is only that most private railway companies turn towards ÖBB because it is a highly qualified training, and that is also what private EVUs are happy to use to train their employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since 2002, there has been the railway liberalisation index, which provides every two to four years an overview of the current possibilities for opening up rail transport in the European Union, Switzerland and Norway. The point assessment shall include the legal and factual access provisions to the rail network for railway undertakings. In 2011 Austria takes sixth place compared to 27 European countries and will be the first ever since This liberalisation index has been assessed as a country with an advanced market opening, and this is the highest assessment available here. – So much to those ladies and gentlemen in this House who are constantly talking about the fact that the competent ministry prevents or makes it difficult for private EVUs to have access. A look at the budget also shows that funds from the federal government are also intended for private railway investments. The NÖVOG receives 3.4 million for the Lower Austrian narrow railways, the Steiermärkische Landesbahnen receives 2.3 million, the Pinzgau Railway receives 2.5 million, the Raab-Ödenburger Railway receives 4.5 million, the Vienna local railways receive 4 million, the Linz Local Railway receives 2.6 million and the Raab-Ödenburger Railway another €10 million. In total, that's 43 million €. This is an increase of €11 million in this budget in addition to the public services, which of course also receive the private EVUs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] I support these promotions. The costs of public transport operations and infrastructure cannot be fully met on many routes by means of ticket revenue. As in road transport, it is our social task to take over the cover here. In this budget debate, the demand for a division of the company ÖBB or for a partial sale of the company ÖBB was repeatedly expressed. I am speaking – [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: That's not true! Who said that?]] The sale of power plants concerns a part of the company ÖBB! – I am strictly opposed to this consideration! There are already enough examples of such privatisations, which have always ended in a fiasco and have ultimately gone to the taxpayer's expense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Switzerland is constantly being used here as a great model. I would therefore like to present once again the financial framework of the Swiss railway: The Swiss railway was completely discharged in 1998. The maintenance of the infrastructure now takes place directly through state funds. The rail is financed by the road, by cover truck tolls and the mineral oil tax. We have a significantly higher area offer within the ÖBB than the Swiss railway, and the ticket prices in Switzerland are 40 percent higher than in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Public transport contributes enormously to transport safety, CO2 reduction and climate protection. It provides 170 000 people with work and income, and the investments and expenditure provided for in this budget are expenditure for the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41252	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41274	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! They ask whether it is necessary to implement the modernisation of infrastructure and investment in research and technological development. – Of course, no one will be against it! Where there is no functioning infrastructure, the economy does not work. Now only! Smart, safe transport routes, which are forward-looking and also eliminate dangers, are necessary. Of course, it is necessary that public transport becomes more attractive and that there are cheaper driving times. The working population is increasingly confronted with flexible working hours, and therefore, of course, it is necessary that driving times are also made flexible. But where, on the other hand, do we say that a debt brake and a savings package are in place now when it comes to budget traffic? Of course, it is so that we have a budget deficit that continues to rise. The total commitments of the Austrian Federal Railways amount to €15.2 billion and those of the ASFINAG with €11 billion. These are not included in the budget deficit, which the European Union also criticizes. It criticises that these hidden debts are not included, as they are equally included. These are the real debts, because otherwise one acts hidden here, and we finally fall on the head. Next point: The Court of Auditors is criticising the Austrian Federal Railways in connection with the investment in the MÁV-Cargo. With Hungary practically a billion people were speculated or put into the sand, and that in the public sector. That's crazy! This has to be revealed here too, Mrs. Federal Minister! There the lever has to be put on, because transparency and the inclusion of all liabilities are required, and I am already wondering: What is promotion now, and what is compensation? I have read an article today, an interview with the new President of the Federal Farmers' Party, who says: Support for agriculture is a compensatory payment. [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] – I still understand when Auer says something like that when it comes to a miner, but not when it comes to a large landowner! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the same as in apprenticeship training in firms: When companies train apprentices, they do not receive compensation, on the other hand, those companies that do not train apprentices. And it's similar with the train. In any case, it is important to remove certain privileges from the Austrian Federal Railways. The grants available for the pension payments of ÖBB employees who are in official status at the Austrian Federal Railways and who leave official status over the next two years and continue to retire with just under 53 are not available there, so to speak. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have even said in the Budget Committee that there is a certain gap in this respect with those employees who are insured under the ASVG. From 2014 there will only be more employees at the ÖBB who are insured according to the ASVG. This is provided for in the new Social Law Amendment Act. But what do you think about what those people in Austria think they should work longer, from me to 65 years or above, when they find that those who work as officials at the ÖBB will be retired for about 53 years in the next two years? - No one understands! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Not everyone!]] And that's the problem, isn't it? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One cannot simply raise the retirement age and at the same time leave loopholes open as with the Austrian Bundesbahnen. This is perceived as a bad joke. If you look at the grants of all pensions in Austria, you can see that the grants for those insured under the ASVG are relatively small. In fact, 90 percent of these are covered by contribution payments, whereas in the case of rail, they are to be paid to 100 percent of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41332	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41354	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! A powerful infrastructure is a questionable prerequisite for managing the increasing traffic and for securing the economic location of Austria. That is why I say in advance: We also need a good infrastructure in the area of rail. We need reliable rail connections for our thousands of commuters, for our freight transports, for our guests and for our rural areas. But the question is: What can it cost? And there is also a clear answer for this: We also need a debt brake at the ÖBB. Ladies and gentlemen! The total expenditure of the ÖBB is more than €6 billion. Compared to the total revenue from our budget of around 64 billion, this is a huge amount. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I mean, in view of this, we can already think about why these costs arise and where they come from. Many things have already been mentioned today, but I may return to the pensions of the ÖBB once again. Yes, it is true, Mr Haberzettl: All new employees will be charged in accordance with the new pension provisions. However, the decades-long transitional periods for existing pension rights are decisive. And from the discussions with the population, we all know that the retirement age must be the same for all, because only then are regulations carried in this direction by the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This statement, of course, applies not only to the public health services, but also to all occupational groups, which, in some cases, still have transitional provisions in their pension systems for decades. I am delighted, ladies and gentlemen, that yesterday Mr. Sozialminister Hundstorfer made a clear statement on the change of transitional periods in general and the ÖBB in particular! In principle, that is positive. Ladies and gentlemen! Another word on road safety: It should be noted that, as in previous years, 4.4 million € will be made available in dedicated funds to increase road safety. These funds are used in the planning and implementation of concrete projects to increase road safety, but they are also used in research and studies. I think that this is a very useful and important step that contributes to the fact that we still have fewer deaths in road transport, and that must, of course, be in all our interests. Ladies and gentlemen, that means: Get rid of the debt so that we don't have to spend the public's tax performance on interest, but still have funds for important tasks such as road safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41415	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41436	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Get off the debt! Against this motto, Mr Singer, I can in principle have nothing, yes, no one can have anything. The problem we have is that you do exactly the opposite. You constantly take big words into your mouth, you speak of “debt brake. ” I have this word today, I think, to feel 126. Already heard. But you do, as I said, the opposite. I should like to present to you once again the graphics that Mr Moser has already presented to you. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] That's the backpack you're putting on our future generations, which is for projects that are at least doubtful in terms of transport policy. If international and Austrian experts are constantly saying that, for example, the coral tunnel or the Brenner base tunnel, as they are designed, does not meet the traffic policy objectives, I ask you to bear in mind that all of this is in this debt package. Take a look at the relatively low range that you will have on the ÖBB: This includes the lack of safety measures, the lack of creatives and the lack of vending machines that we have to complain about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] These are areas that will burden us in future for decades. Therefore, do not constantly talk about your debt brake, but talk about how you actually burdened the future generations, because that is problematic and that will greatly limit the scope for any government in the coming decades! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, you rightly pointed out that we must distinguish between debt and investment. We are with you that we find positive approaches in this budget. However, we unfortunately feel little in comparison to what we would need in Austria, namely a rethinking in transport policy. Mr Hell, if you're looking for a comparison with the Swiss railways, we'll be with you immediately. You and, of course, your predecessor governments of Black and Blue were the ones who outsourced and tricked the debt. All of this falls on our minds now, we have to solve all these problems now. What we need would, for example, be a tax reward for environmentally friendly transport behaviour. But that is absolutely not the case. In the area of trucks, for example, you continue to subsidize low diesel prices. The taxes are 12 cents higher in Germany, in Italy by 5 cents. Of course, this promotes tank tourism, of course, it is straining our balance sheet. The result is much higher environmental pollution. Today – I heard the news yesterday – you can no longer go jogging in the Prater because the fine dust load is so high. This is also the result of this transport policy that you have been operating for years. When I walk through Vienna as a Vorarlberger, I constantly notice these giant sleds, these SUVs that you support tax – Mr Moser has already pointed out –: 1,6 billion €, please! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The result is that half of all new registrations have already come from companies, and they are of course promoting and buying these big sleds, which, especially here in the big city, no human needs. What we need to get it to the point [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] We need passenger transport, we need an offensive for electric vehicles, we need, of course, much more justice between different modes of transport and we need a reward for environmentally friendly mobility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41522	Now comes Mr. Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41543	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am pleased that we can really see real growth in the budget in the field of research, technology and innovation in BMVIT. This is a modest yet good development, in contrast to other resorts. Therefore, I would like to thank the Federal Minister for her commitment to real-life growth in the field of research. Mr Deimek, who has also spoken to the ÖBB today, I would like to mention briefly. He's a technician and an expert. I do not want to hurt you politically at all, my colleague, but your problem-oriented debate on the subject of ÖBB has done really well compared to the statements made by Mr Bartenstein, who does not actually need it. I really have to say that. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't understand. I am a railway child myself and I also have enough demands for reform to the ÖBB. But I'll tell you one, my colleague: My niece, my brother's daughter, railway daughter, doesn't get a scholarship. Her school friend, a farmer's daughter from Sierning, receives an apartment at the beginning of her studies in Vienna and a maximum scholarship. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] We can discuss these things, since there is certainly a lot to be done and done in the context of the debt brake. Perhaps we can use these false resources for research and innovation development in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41594	Mr Rädler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41629	Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! One would now try to point out why this educational people's desire has not been successful. [[Abg. Grosz: But you were the reason!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice pass.]] Whoever has heard the speaker of the Greens, Mr Walser, with his above-educated way, and he has been a exponent, can calculate why this popular desire has taken this outcome. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] – You're still coming, yes, but show up! It seems that today's day of the railways is anchored in this budget speech, because it was loud railers who went out there and spoke. Mr. Mayor, too. Auer will still come and lift up the railway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Josef Auer.]] I think we're completely wrong. I'll tell you a story now. It's not a Christmas story, it's a true story. A good friend of mine – railwayman, SPÖ-Obmann, my counterpart, unfortunately to the early death, I must say – has experienced that he retired in his service time, before he retired at 49 years of age, in 47. He has received a new job title for his life: he has suddenly become a train companion from the workman. That was a great success for him – it should be so. [[Abg. Nice pass: To the budget!]] There's something going on. We should have overlooked some of the functions when they were changed in the Federal Railways. Where did the brakes come from? What's their name now? What function do they have? They are present, the brakers, if you look in the rows like that. You know her by name. There are inconspicuous “heinzl” males, they shine “hell”, and Mr. Haberzettl, who has already gone down. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Lapp and Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] This is a special case, Mr Haberzettl. He goes out with his agricultural social skills. He should deal with it once: There is a small “Ackerl” in Upper Austria, which today announces that he is also one of these brakes. That's a disease inside the SPÖ, the brakers. They are slowing down in the railways, which now, at once, are still slowing down against the debt brake. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Is this a suspect now?- Oh, my God!]] At Mr Ackerl's, who turns out we have something to do, Mr Haberzettl. I think I heard from Mr Weninger that it is within the SPÖ – yes, that belongs to the budget anyway! – a group that deals with what one can do with retired politicians like Mr Haberzettl. [[Abg. May. Worm: To the budget!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] In Lower Austria we have resigned 27 who have resigned from the SPÖ. And there's a group inside the SPÖ that says: Look, Ma, it can be, it can be. And the Lord Haberzettl also read this and saw “cooperative society, ” pointed out and said: That's what I want to be! That's where he's going, our friend. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Windwood.]] That's what I'm really asking myself: What else does this have to do with a railway or infrastructure policy to which Mrs Minister is responsible? The Minister must now produce and explain what these €2 billion are in the area of infrastructure. Is the investment in the future of the railway, in the research field, or is it so that something is actually required, what the union is presenting on the plate? [[Intrusions of the Abg. Heinzl.]] On the other hand, I would like to keep my mind; and this is also a contribution to the budget you should think about, Mr Heinzl, because you are one of those united brakers without having a title of function!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41760	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41782	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! So, Mr Rädler, with all due respect that we should actually have among ourselves, I have missed it in your speech. [[Abg. Wheeler: Why?]] Speaking of brakers as a representative of the ÖVP, I think the wrong thing is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would like to give you a few points where you are on the brake, Mr President. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinzl and Mr Mag. Stefan.]] And what I have missed at ÖVP is that your research spokesperson, Mrs Hakl, does not lose a single sentence on research; for just the research budget – Oh, Mr Grosz, good morning, how was it yesterday at the municipal council in Graz? [[Abg. Grosz: Will we finally have new elections?]] Coming back from Graz to Vienna? [[Mr Silhavy and Mr Mag. Worm.]] [[Abg. Grosz: When we talk about quality, it was a lot better!]] . Well, please, my colleague. In any case, I would now like to focus on the research budget and, in particular, on what measures the Federal Government and, in particular, our Mrs Federal Ministers are taking with regard to human resources. Our Mrs. Federal Ministers has launched programmes there, in particular I would like to mention the internships for students and also for students. Mr Grosz, you should experience the pupils once they come to research institutions when they complete the internship. We have a girl's share of 31.3 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] I think we agree across all party borders that it is important that we strengthen research, innovation, technology, in particular that we also look at more girls, more women in research and technology. Dear Mrs. Federal Minister, you are on the best track with your programmes, and in particular the priorities from 2012 on, such as the promotion of dissertations of women, are a good thing. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the FPÖ]] Mrs Winter has referred to the gender budgeting, and I would also like to repeat it briefly. We have comprehensive gender criteria for BMVIT funding, all FFG projects are also to be assessed according to gender criteria, and since October 2010 more than 500 projects have been assessed according to gender criteria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Research for women!]] This is not to laugh, because there are different things, Mr President, which have different effects on men and women. Just remember the discussion in the Committee on Budgets, namely the discussion on airbag. You can remember? - That's right. So, Mrs Bundesminister – with all the criticism that has also come today – I congratulate you on the way you have taken. Applied research is important, and you are on the best way to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41922	Mr Eßl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e41944	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Without a doubt, infrastructure is important, and this, of course, includes public transport, the road network, the rail network and others; and we need infrastructure for a functioning economic life, but this also means more quality of life. Investments of almost €12 billion are planned for 2012 to 2016. I'm just saying, These investments should be intelligent and targeted. I should also like to point out some of the projects that are important to me. Environmental relief measures are planned in Zederhaus, but I do not read much of the Golling-Sgegenwald section, which is at risk of flood and avalanche, from the Seekirchen–Salzburg route, from the Altenmarkt motorway connection and from the Pinzgau development, which would be very important for our federal state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I should also like to refer to Mr Haberzettl's comments, because I think his comparison is absolutely unfounded. The ÖBB are important to us. The ÖBB is a management company, but it is out of dispute that every tenth euro is going into the ÖBB, and that is, I believe, not necessarily necessary. [[Abg. Markowitz: Every fourth euro!]] That's €4.8 billion and €2 billion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] And one more, Mr Haberzettl, if you compare the pension system, you can see the following: If a Bundesbahner reaches the statutory retirement age, he has already cost the federal government €200 000 in pension subsidies, and this amount is higher than some farmer is paid out throughout his pension life. That is why your comparison must be rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Josef Auer and Grosz.]] There is a second comparison which I noticed, namely, the public services. The State wants to have services, and the service providers provide them. In the agricultural sector – and Mr Gässner will certainly make a few criticisms today – the Federation will generate € 159 million of additional € 371 million, which will then benefit farmers for the benefits they provide. At the railway we have a total of €700 million in public service, and of which €618.4 million go to the ÖBB, to a company. [[Intervoke by Dr. Matznetter and Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] So that's what it really looks like. So I say that we need to have a serious policy, it is called for, without procrastination, Mr Haberzettl.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42023	Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42045	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Eßl and Mr von der ÖVP, I think that if They repeat untruths several hundred times, then they will not be true either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Markowitz: Go to Loipersdorf again!]] I would like to point out that it is important that the expenditure on infrastructure measures will increase by €264 million in 2012, and that between 2011 and 2016 of the €19.3 billion in investment in the entire transport infrastructure, rail and road, about a third, that is €6.5 billion, will be invested in the high-level road network, which is also necessary. A total of more than 2,000 kilometres of motorways and highways belonging to the high-level road network, of which 340 kilometers are on bridges, and 145 tunnels that fall within the competence of the federal government. By 2016 alone, a total of € 267 million of investment is planned for the state of Salzburg, including € 100 million for general renovations, repairs, tunnel adaptations. By 2020, ASFINAG will invest 129 million € for necessary environmental relief measures along the Tauernautobahn im Pongau and Lungau. A particular focus of the Ministry of Infrastructure is also on road safety, and by 2016 50 percent of the expenditure will be spent on various safety measures, especially for road reconstruction, but also for new road construction. At the same time, there are legal measures to increase safety, such as stricter penalties for lawns, the wheel helmet requirement or the introduction of the rescue alley by 1. January 2012, but also important awareness-raising measures with a view to 50 percent reduction in traffic deaths by 2020. The first very ambitious transport safety programme has already led to a reduction in the number of fatalities by about 50 percent, and this trend is to continue. But more safety on our roads should also be achieved through increased research in the field of new, intelligent transport technologies. Investment in our infrastructure means growth, especially in rural areas. Important jobs strengthen and secure Austria as an economic location. Especially in times of crisis, we cannot and must invest in and for the future. In economically difficult times, the construction activity of ASFINAG is an important boost for employment and economic activity.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42099	The next item is the speech by Mr Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42131	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I will deal with other transport at the railways' high station, and I can tell you, Federal Minister, that we are very satisfied with what we have in the cable car industry, in the cable car department. Also the order of Sectionschefin Mag. Ursula Zechner is a very enjoyable act, we have had a very good conversation. But I can point out that we have too few lawyers, and I have a tip for you: In the army ministry, there are enough lawyers who have nothing to do. Maybe you could see that we're getting a few to the cable car department. [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Today, Mr Deimek was already talking dramatically about what happened yesterday or yesterday at Vienna Airport. I am of course not putting any evil intentions on you, but under the eyes of the world press, the unsavory practice of an Austrian-licensed airline that has recently been flying here has become reckless. I think there's still a lot of information there, and the line-charter combination is very unusual. [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Markowitz and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] It is interesting why the Austrian delegation for aviation negotiations in India is also the retired director of the Aviation Authority Manfred Bialonczyk. What does a gentleman do in an Austrian delegation? What was being negotiated? Why have the unusual line-charter combinations been approved via Vienna? I think it is in need of information because it harms the airport Vienna and, of course, also the tourist location Austria. Mrs Bundesminister, I would also like to take a look at the location policy in our country, and I think that we are constantly putting pressure on Austria's economic location – for various reasons, because of environmental protection, climate protection, improvement of social networks. [[Abg. Markowitz:... Heart matter!]] I should also like to take a brief look at the example of the AUA. Just a few weeks ago, you opened additional frequencies, slots, slots, for the Emirates Arab airline, an airline that can generate at least operating resources such as kerosene, but also costs of ground staff, maintenance and so on, even cheaper. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner]] On the other hand, the AUA is struggling with dwindling numbers of passengers, not least because of the encouraging political development towards democracy in the Middle East, in its main markets, but because of the conditions of the European Commission as a condition for the state grant. In addition, an air traffic tax was introduced. Now we are also introducing aviation into emissions trading. From the point of view of the other economy, of course, positive. Why should this area remain free from climate change? But the whole can only work in the European and international context without damage to the AUA. Russia and many other states have announced resistance, by the way, Switzerland and the USA have even banned their own airlines from participating by decision of the House of Representatives. I think that similar combinations of market-related specifications and home-made restrictions, whether fiscal or international and European, are also available in other economic sectors. I think we need not only a generation scan, but we need a job and site scan, a wealth scan, because otherwise our jobs and thus wealth will fly away very quickly. [[Abg. Markowitz: Scan! Scan! Scan!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Debt Scan!]] I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, as an important representative of the coalition partner, to take care at all of what we take into account our jobs and the economic location in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42215	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42237	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is an industrialized country, Austria is a high technology country and Austria is also a transit country in the heart of Europe. All these characteristics concern the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, and all these characteristics must therefore be taken into account in the budget. In the 2012 UG 41 there are 2 971.3 million for this, which is 264.4 million more than in the previous year; the increase compared to 2011 is almost 10 percent – and this is good, ladies and gentlemen, because it allows for the expansion of the road and rail, and we can also invest in road safety for 2012. Our transport minister, Doris Bures, has negotiated perfectly. They and their place of business make a huge contribution to the economy even in times of economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if you – I am going to have to tell you soon – say that every tenth euro will be invested in the ÖBB, then you have to reply that these investments will run construction projects that give the economy a direct impetus. And with the expansion and maintenance of our transport routes, we keep the economy not only in the proverbial sense, but also in the practical sense fully running, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the expansion and maintenance of the high-level transport network, €825 million will be spent in 2012, which is €825 million for our economy, which is €825 million for our jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: That's not easy!]] Mr Bartenstein, to your figures now very briefly. You have said that in comparison to the Deutsche Bahn, 53 € are spent per capita on the infrastructure in Germany, in Austria for the ÖBB 253 €. – Then 230 €, a bit less, thank God! [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: 230 €!]] Of course, this sounds as if Germany is very economical in the infrastructure and doing a lot, but there you have to count up: This 53 € times 88 million results in 4,664 billion €. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein keeps a bar chart up.]] And if you convert these 230 million for Austria, that's 2,024 billion. And if you consider that Austria has to invest in infrastructure in the railway network in many tunnels, then these 2 billion or 230 € per capita, which are invested here, are very little in contrast to our neighbor, dear Mr Bartenstein. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: “Very little”?- Oh, my God!]] To the ÖBB. What's going on there? Let's look at the numbers. Mr Bartenstein, let us look at the figures of the ÖBB. 500 million passengers are transported annually, which is a huge contribution to reducing CO2 emissions, and this should also be considered. It employs 42 000 people, 1 900 young people being trained there. BMVIT also spends around €24 million in apprenticeship training in 2012, i.e. 500 new apprenticeships are awarded and these apprenticeships are very hotly desired. I can only say that every schilling that goes into the ÖBB, every schilling, every euro that is invested in the ÖBB, every euro that is invested in the ASFINAG, is a real euro, because it revives the economy and secures the jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Euro!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42346	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42383	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Keck, I understand if you confuse Euro and Schilling. In Schilling, the sums would probably be a little more difficult to express in the gigantomania you present here. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If the SPÖs were here addressed by almost every speaker the agricultural policy and also the farmers, this shows only the interpretation of agriculture and forestry in Austria and also its good sense for the population. Because it is not less than 80 percent of the population who say, yes, we need the subsidies to agriculture, to the forestry industry, to maintain food security in our country to this extent, to that extent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Lapp: Where did you get this?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] But now to the public service. Ladies and gentlemen, here we have an increase in the appropriations, but the transparency and the call for proposals are relatively opaque, I would like to say. For example, if we now have the new WESTbahn on the west line and if a private provider comes there, the public service services will be deducted from this route, this is already worrying. This also applies to Rail Cargo Austria. Mr Heinzl, this is always your concern: Away from the road to the rail. It's very plausible. But we also have the problem that many loading stations in the regions unfortunately need to be closed down to God. And there you have to ask, if we already provide this area more budgetaryly, why we cannot get it. But the financial development is dramatic. If we talk about the ÖBB commitments, then we have had € 17 billion in 2010 and € 21.8 billion in 2012 and € 70 billion in 2017. Here, the equity ratio needs to be improved, but not through public grants, but it is possible to explore some of the properties and, above all, the power plants of the ÖBB. That's not a sacred cow, you should take it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is precisely there that one could leave the professionals to modernise these power plants and thus strengthen the development as well. But, Mr Haberzettl, your excitement is also right, because, finally and finally, the railway trade union always understands that it sees the ÖBB as its horse. [[Abg. Haberzettl: If the farmers would make as many reforms as the railways have made...!]] But they are not, that's the federal railway and not the union's toy railway, otherwise the ÖBB will become another train to nowhere with Mr. Kern as a train leader. [[Abg. Haberzettl: We have introduced a driver's license!]] And unfortunately, the heater is God's Federal Minister, who then has to heat with tax money instead of coal.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42470	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42491	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Dr. Moser, general on the criticism of the opposition: As for the construction of tunnels, this is a criticism that I take note of and perhaps accept, but I cannot understand it in terms of content. What I don't understand at all is if the inner coalition is played back and forth again and again. When I look in the direction of my colleague Bartenstein: You have to tell your party colleague, the head of state Platter in Tyrol. There is a large majority in Tyrol for the Brenner base tunnel, but also for other tunnels, and there is a large majority in the federal government. That's why I don't understand this play and play at all. What I totally reject is that wrong numbers are always brought. We are here in Parliament to criticise that we are discussing the problems, but we should not operate with false figures here. I don't like that. [[Abg. Wheelers: Examples!]] That's why I'm now trying to correct a few numbers in a matter of fact; if you were listening to me, that would be good. I would also like to break a lance for the ÖBB staff if I put some numbers correctly, because I know a lot of staff of the ÖBB personally and also otherwise, of which I know that they are very diligent people. I also know a lot of hard-working farmers. I don't like that at all if you keep bringing certain groups of people into discredit. I don't like that! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] [[Members of the ÖVP point towards SPÖ.]] Mr. Schmuckenschlager, the SPÖ is not against the farmers. We are for the farmers, but really for those farmers, for example, who are miners, so that they do not receive other mining promotions. This is a non-profit use, and we are against it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the ÖBB: The €6.7 billion do not vote. Mrs Bures has tried to explain it to you. Some colleagues have tried to explain it. Only a third of them are true, and that is actually too little. This third is €143 billion for infrastructure investment, and €730 billion is for public expenditure. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: millions!]] - Millions, yes, thank you. I am not here with you at all, Mr Bartenstein. They also want to promote the Salzburg–Vienna route in the public sector. This shows your neoliberal face. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] We want public services for rural areas. We want trains to drive in rural areas where a train route cannot be operated with profit. Whatever is absolutely incorrect in the discussion is when talk about the privileges of pensioners at the ÖBB. The ÖBB-pensionists pay 43 percent more pension contributions, i.e. 15.8 percent, the ASVG-pensionists 10.8%. The pension insurance contribution is even more 50 percent, 5.8 percent, otherwise 3.8 percent. With regard to public services in passenger transport, only one figure is left: € 578 million. Compared to this, Mrs. Moser has said today that there is €1.6 billion for private use of company cars. And that's why more and more are registered. So I could bring a long series, unfortunately my speaking time is over. Mrs. Minister, don't let yourself be hurt, the budget from your side is very good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42568	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42613	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A special greeting to the Pensionistenortsgruppe Untersiebenbrunn and her Obmann Rudolf Obermeier. Welcome! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The current situation in the financial markets, which now also threatens Austria and puts us under pressure, proves how important and indispensable Europe and the European Union must act as a political Community project. Governments in the EU have and have had different approaches to dealing with the crisis. Some examples of this: Czech Republic: Closing of hospitals, United Kingdom: Social and Health Destruction, Romania: Closing rural kindergartens, and so on – all the measures that have taken, in particular, the lower and middle levels of the population. Austria went another way. Austria has made investments in the future. This shows that we have taken the right steps. Austria is concerned with the lowest unemployment in the European Union and also has the lowest youth unemployment rate. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to preserve this sustainability. Especially in Lower Austria – and I would like to give an example – the sustainability has been achieved. In the wine district in spring 2006 was a large flood on March and Thaya, a hundred years high. A damage of about €72 million has been incurred. Although plans were already in place, the flood project “Protection of Marchdammes” was only promoted under Minister Faymann and now under Minister Bures. In the last five years, a total of €120 million has been installed for flood protection – an investment in the future. A total of almost 68 kilometres of protective dams were created and expanded on the extension line. Fortunately, there are also cooperations with Slovakia, where common flood protection is also carried out. It is difficult at a time when there is no large budget to support preventive measures such as this Marchschutzdamm project. That is why I thank the people of the Federal Minister for their support.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42662	There are no more words available to me. This will allow these topics to be dealt with. [[10:54:55]] UG 33: Economy (Research) UG 40: Economy
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42695	We now come to the negotiation of subheadings 33: Economics (Research), as well as 40: Economics. A joint debate is being held on this matter. I should like to ask Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner, who is already at the door, to say that we have arrived at his sub-divisions. As The first is Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42725	Good morning, Minister of State! Just in time! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As the small war between farmers and railways is now obviously ended or set on ice, we can devote ourselves to the issue of economy and work. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I have already said it here, often, that it is difficult to discuss the economic budget with you, because if you take out the whole area of family, youth and others from your relatively large budget pot, then there is no longer much left for the economy. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: You already said that last year!]] - Yes, I know. I told you something more last year, I'll repeat it now. You know, the economy is facing very, very many problems. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein speaks to Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] – You can then speak, Mr Bartenstein. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The economy is facing a lot of problems that do not always concern you directly, but rather your counterpart or Vis-à-vis, the Minister of Dog Torfer. I have already emphasized the often here in the house, I think it is a serious mistake that we have separated the areas of work and business into two ministries. [[Abg. Riepl: This is not a topic!]] This is wrong, of course, because you know very well, Mr. Colleague, that the economy does not work without work, and, vice versa, a non-functioning economy does not provide jobs. And since these ministries are to be separated is a serious mistake. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let me give you a few examples of why this is so important. We now have the following problem in the economy: If you just take out a sub-area, the shortage of skilled workers, we know that we have problems in training young people, we know we have a massive problem with missing skilled workers. This directly concerns the economy. And if you are talking about the budget here today and about trying to fix it sometime, you know very well that only a functioning economy can be the guarantee that we can ever get down from our debt mountain and put these budgets in order in the future. That's the point. That is why it is a serious mistake to separate something that is indisputably grouped together. I am even more interested in the dispute between farmers and railers than in separating work and business, because this is not separate. Nor can we separate employers and employees, but we are talking about people in employment. We're all sitting in the same boat. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we do not succeed in stabilising the economy in the next few years in such a way that it will bring us an economic growth of one and a half or two percent on average over the next few years, then we will certainly never get under control of the budgetary problems of this government. And that's why it was a serious mistake to separate work and economy. You can take that to heart once! But now to some positive things. In your budget, the thermal renovation and the increase in aws funding are good and positive. After all, the thermal renovation was always required by us, including the means for the aws, and I still have to say that we would have thought more about thermal renovation, because simply the need for resurgence is so serious and this would also have a serious significance for environmental protection. You know that investment in this area has led to the return of appropriate taxes. What is also positive, and as I would like to thank you personally, is that we have extended the threshold regulation to one year, because I believe that the increase in the threshold value regulation has already led to a very strong benefit for the regional economy and, above all, for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] But on the other hand: What is not to be read from the budget is the many construction sites that still exist. You know that we're in front of a credit terminal, that's what all the experts say in the meantime, caused by all the discussions about Basel III. And now new: Of course, the EU's requirements for banks to raise their equity ratio should fear that there will be a further credit gap and that the bank's credit volume will be reduced accordingly. There, Minister of State, we have to take precautions. They know that the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria are already equipped with a very low level of equity. In order to help you, I now submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, if we do not succeed in countering the credit gap, then at least you have to create the possibility that businesses will be able to make investment reserves for themselves, which, of course, need to be tax-privileged. In this way, at least in small sub-areas, you can counter these upcoming Basel III proposals or the forthcoming credit terminal for SMEs. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Otherwise, of course, there are a lot of construction sites that you don't care about. This starts with the reduction of corporate bureaucracy. That's what you've been talking about for years, but nothing happens. Another point is the shattering or further development of the trade order. They know that we are talking about centuries-old regulations. Furthermore, the acceleration of operating permits, the improvement in public procurement. As said, the threshold regulation has been extended by a year to you, thank God. It should also be considered whether partial invitations to tender should be included before general contracts. And some other things more. Above all, a huge task for you will, of course, be the execution of the entire funding in the near future. You know that not only the OECD, but also the other institutions are constantly pointing out that the funding issue in Austria is serious. If we know that we have twice as much funding as the OECD section in the field of the economy, then I believe that there is a need for action here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42835	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42890	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42911	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Themessl, I think we can talk to our minister very well because he understands a) something of business and b) does something for entrepreneurs in this country and c) sets important and right impulses for our economy. Thankfully, you mentioned some of them. Ladies and gentlemen! We must be very careful to ensure that investors continue to have confidence in Austria, and that discussions about new taxes are damaging. I can only emphasize that. We must therefore finally stop these tax discussions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we should also make a very clear commitment to the fact that, in addition to the debt brake, we also have a tax brake, which would be a very important measure. We must now clearly define our objectives for our location, for the economic location of Austria, and quickly implement the reforms, because long discussions are, of course, harmful to our location. From 2002 to 2007, we reduced debt by 8 percent in relation to GDP, making Austria's economic location even more attractive and internationally competitive and creating many thousands of jobs. That is why we must set ourselves the goal of reducing debt by 13 percent over the next 10 years in order to create the right spaces here again. And that's to be done, that's what Professor Felder said yesterday: Of course I can. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Overall, €548 million are available in the economic and research budget of our Minister of Economic Affairs for 2012, and the right measures will be put in place to strengthen competition and improve access to finance, especially for our small and medium-sized economies. The continuation of SME funding with priorities such as eco-innovations, regional promotions and equity initiatives are right measures to further support our small and medium-sized economy and companies in Austria. The Minister is setting the right measures and priorities here, because it is a matter of continuing the successful path of the Austrian economy. We have just noticed in recent times that the Austrian economy is making a very important contribution to ensuring that jobs are guaranteed that purchasing power will be preserved, and that is why it is important that we put the appropriate impulses here. So, in conclusion, The Economy chapter is on the right track. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42965	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e42987	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the economic location Austria has many qualities. Two of its qualities are certainly the excellent corporate landscape and the excellent employees who do great things here. But the whole thing is not supposed to conceal that there are large construction sites, large construction sites that are very important for an economic location. This goes from the results of the PISA study to climate protection, where we know that Austria has an unmistakable top position as a final light. Nevertheless, a budget debate and the upcoming debate on the debt brake are of course the main question: What should be a modern economic location that also ensures high quality of life and jobs in this form? This is certainly the issue of future investment. Future investment, ladies and gentlemen, is rather rare in this 2012 budget, and the big argument is always: We need to consolidate, we have to save! – Save in the right place, save intelligently, yes, this is a challenge. One of our proposals is to finally raise the funding jungle in Austria, Mr Minister, because the studies of various experts and the Economic Research Institute show that the funding landscape in Austria is very dense, that there is a great confusion here with many, many competing, overlapping funding lines, where it is long overdue to introduce an improved structure/efficiency here, in the sense also of entrepreneurs. Finally, it is not appropriate to have an entire economic structure if we have a structural transfer, this also shows the studies, and if it is increasingly confusing for entrepreneurs to use the appropriate funding programmes. I would like to point out one example here: this is the search engine, the research navigator of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. If you enter the area of tourism here, you will be told and written 280 railways, which will certainly overlap, where entrepreneurs are hard to find the right promotion here. I think it is in the sense of all of us to introduce effective structures in this respect. The next area, of course, is the issue of the economy and investment in this very central area. We know that in Austria we have many companies, which are very highly positioned here, have enormous growth rates and are in particular well placed in the export industry, and that is also good. This is one of the few markets that still have enormous growth rates that go into the double-digit area. To consistently support these opportunities with the appropriate targeted measures and budget resources, that is the challenge. Mr Minister, I very much miss in this 2012 budget, on the one hand, the generous allocation of energy research and, on the other hand, the corresponding support of these great companies in the field of the eco-economics to move on the international markets, because according to the response from the last round of the committee, only €1.3 million are spent on environmental and eco-technology initiatives. I think that, Minister, is too little for such a great and generous area. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: We also have more!]] If you now say that we have more, then simply the answer to the question in this form is not correct, then you can still explain it, although you can say: If you look across it, in the rough, even as far as research/science is concerned, we see that this very central market for the future is submerged. This makes me one of the most important foundations for economic development, and this is innovation/development and, of course, research. Only recently did the European Commission note in its competition report that Austria is in a good position, but there are structural deficits in some areas. And there is a very precise reference to education and research, that there is quite a need for action here. And that with good reason, because: As we all know, good economic development depends on research and development, and of course also on resources. This would have to be taken into account, but the budget figures show something different. Mr Minister, you have noted in the Committee that this research/innovation/science budget has been given a great deal of effort. I recognize the honest answer with the effort. Only: Efforts will be too little in this area. We have the situation that your place of business together with Minister Bures's place of business and that of Minister Denkele has an increase of 1 percent. If I take into account the inflation rate, I'm on a real minus. And that, Mr Minister, is simply too little for the challenges we have in this area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, you are also a guest of the companies, you are talking to them about the problems, and they will have informed you, as well as me, of the great concern to remove the cover for order research. A quite legitimate concern, where I believe that this would also be beneficial for cooperation between economics and universities. It was announced eight weeks ago that this should come. You haven't heard of it until now. This seems to have disappeared in the sinking – precisely such an important point that would bring benefits and also intensify research. If you look at the naked figures at the moment at what the development will be between 2012 and 2015, just as the Federal Government wants to decide on the 2012 budget or has already set the federal financial framework by 2015, then the proportion of science, research, development will fall from 5.9 percent to 5.6 percent of total expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, this is clearly the wrong way! It is important here to set up appropriate activities. It is too little to decide on a research strategy, as was done by the Federal Government in March, and not to live up to it, to promise a research funding law in a research strategy and then to do nothing for eight months. Because companies, universities, science, research need planning, need predictability. This is absolutely necessary in this form. We are very concerned that the relevant initiatives are put in place here, and in order to ensure this important concern, I am today bringing in the motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to eliminate the existing funding gap in the 2012 budget to achieve the FTI strategy’s objectives decided by the Federal Government and thus to increase the budget for UG 31, UG 33 and UG 34 accordingly. Furthermore, a draft binding research funding law should be submitted to the National Council”. Ladies and gentlemen, this was decided by the Federal Government eight months ago. We now call for implementation. They are cordially invited to support this very thing in the common sense today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43044	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43163	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43184	Mr President. Federal Minister! In short, to the colleague Themessl and to his request that the areas of work and business should be merged. I am not going into the inconsistencies now when Austria did not have seven years, where that was the case. Then we had it a second time, so it wasn't different. There were Mrs. Sickl, Mr. Head and, as they all said, Mrs. Haubner, who could not give such essential areas alone in their responsibilities. But this is easier to solve: FPÖ not to the government – then we do not have these problems! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This model here works perfectly. The interaction we have between Federal Minister Mitterlehner and Federal Minister Hundstorfer the last For years, we have proved that we have excellent successes in the proper cooperation of the relevant ministries, and that is what it is all about. We are the best in Europe in youth unemployment. And let everyone keep an eye on what that means: 1 per cent more youth unemployment is 8,000 young people per year. In other words, we would only have 1 percent more – if They count five years in the field – we speak of 40,000 young people. If you look at the conditions in Spain, in other countries, across Europe, you know what we have of making a targeted policy in this area, through apprenticeship training. Where there are no places, we have provided secure over-company apprenticeship training – with a determined effort to get the apprentices into the company. The companies that take over the apprentices are also very, very satisfied with them. We now see that we have a training obligation so that we do not lose these 3,000, 4,000, who only have a compulsory education degree. This will be the prerequisite for us to reach the second goal with well-trained young people, namely to be the best in unemployment on the continent. We owe this success to fiscal policy, but to a substantial part of labour and economic policy. In this case, it is also time to say a thank you to both ministers. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] I do not want to hide the fact that it is not a simple work to be done in the field. The change in economic structures in the country, keyword: Hundreds of thousands of one-person companies, which change economic structures makes extensive adjustments necessary. This extends from the social field to the question of trade regulations, the design of contracts to the franchise sector and much more. It's a huge task to accompany this. And we have to see that, as it is so beautiful, we help Hidden Champions to break through accordingly. I had the opportunity yesterday to bring Professor Simon from Germany and Professor Prug from Slovenia to the curtain, who are the real Hidden Champions on the world markets. These are mostly small and medium-sized enterprises. And this works best where the structures are available so that these companies can also go to the international markets. And this works perfectly in the country because we have “go international” because we have a interaction of politics, foreign ministry, Austrian representation and the wide network of the AWO, the Chamber of Commerce. This double companionship means that even small but technologically excellent businesses in Austria can trust to offer 10 000, 15 000 kilometres away their products and services. There are very many in the area of Green Energy, Smart City and others, there happens more than you see in the sober figures. I was with Doris Buresin China. She has completed a concept to convert the millions city ofcutang to Smart City. There will be Austrian technicians, AIT and many others, but at the same time Austrian companies will have the opportunity to place their excellent products on a market that still has real growth potential. Here you can see, our businesses are powerful, and they are even more powerful when the package of politics is right, and in that case – although there are two ministries, Mr Themessl: Tortoises and Mitterlehner – it really works. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43268	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43290	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister for Economic Affairs! High house! In my view, the basis for this budget is the government programme of this red and black federal government. This government programme reads that small and medium-sized enterprises are being promoted. The development of an extensive programme to strengthen the medium-sized economy has been promised. Minister for Economic Affairs, the economy is still waiting for implementation! Ladies and gentlemen! If I speak today about the budget chapter of the economy, I am in fact speaking of an economic failure, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have managed the hard-working money of the Austrian economic operators in recent years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have not, as it is heard, as a good merchant balances, quite the contrary: They often threw the money out the window with both hands, especially in the subculture of the party policy of SPÖ and ÖVP. They have paid so-called managers bonus payments at an altitude that drives every ordinary citizen into the face of the shady red, whether they have generated profits or even, in part, huge losses. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: What are you talking about?]] And where, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is the call of the Chamber of Commerce, the representation of the interests of our industrial economy? – Nothing has been heard, nothing at all, quite the opposite: The Chamber of Commerce is still throwing wood between its legs, calling for chamber envelopes to an unlikely extent to be able to operate its black functional apparatus, and not to help the company, for example, to overcome the current crisis more easily. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] That would actually be meaning and purpose of a stand representation. There are companies that are asked to pay five, six and more chamber charges for five, six and more areas. Do you seriously believe that this will help only one operation? [[Call the ÖVP: You have no idea!]] They drive our Austrian entrepreneurs even more into debt traps. Even for closed down businesses up to 50 percent is to be paid. And if you look at the basis for calculating this, you'll find that's an inconsistency that finally belongs to reformed. Therefore, don't always talk about administrative reform, start right in this device – in the direction of Chamber President Leitel! Ladies and gentlemen! I have also tabled a request to this effect, and since yesterday I am very optimistic that applications from the BZÖ are also being taken up here. I may refer to the Minister of the Interior, which is suddenly also for a slim device, for fewer heads and for more Indians. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And another question in the direction of the alleged economic party ÖVP: Where does this federal government take the money it is pumping with the filler horn in European pleite states? Where? – From the small and medium-sized companies take the money! They're pressing them out like a lemon. So stop with this policy, end this kind of politics! [[Abg. Grosz: Free the economy!]] Apply what you have set out to do in your Government Convention. Support the economy, and do not prevent a positive development. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! See the study of SMEs Research Austria from June of this year. The income of small and medium-sized enterprises is not intoxicating. 43 percent of companies with less than 250 employees make losses. One-person companies, micro-enterprises more often slide into red numbers than medium-sized companies, but 34 percent of companies that employ between 10 and 250 people are not profitable. According to the 1870 credit protection association, the construction and vehicle industry, as well as financial services, are affected. Another problem is the high level of additional labour costs, where Austria is at the forefront of the European Union. Minister for Economic Affairs! There are countless areas. I would just like to point out: the trade regulations, the plant permits, the promotion area, which can also be referred to as a promotion jungle. They need an acute reform there. In any case, you have a reliable partner with the BZÖ to carry out meaningful reforms here. Stop the reform store! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! You don't have much time left. I also talked about mismanagement earlier. You are the Minister of Economic Affairs and you are saving yourself the'miss' from this word. Stop the reform, finally put in the government signs and activities that the economy has long been waiting for!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43403	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43424	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! I would, however, particularly like to welcome the delegation of the Young People's Party of Tyrol, which is here in the House yesterday and today. Welcome! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's just two!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: This is a small group, Mr. Colleague!]] The priority objective of our Minister of Economic Affairs is to further improve the attractiveness of the Austrian economic location, to promote growth and thus ensure a stable upturn. In this budget too, there are a number of budget items that support this objective precisely and effectively. I would like to mention here, for example, the Internationalisation Plan, with which we want to better develop, among other things, high-growth markets in overseas countries. But what do we all benefit from the efforts to increase the competitiveness of Austrian companies, which are ultimately also employment-stabilising when we have counter-productive discussions about the introduction of new taxes or the increase of taxes? We would rather use energy and time to find ways to reduce and stop paying taxes! To remember: We already have one of the highest tax and tax rates in Austria, and if we are now discussing under the tag of justice a new asset tax is introduced, I strongly warn against it. As you know, the abolished asset tax in Austria was nothing but a corporate tax, because about 70 percent of the revenues were seized by companies at that time. Especially now, in times of economic uncertainty, such a discussion brings only additional unrest. Austria's economic location is under investigation, it's under observation, and I'm looking at places of companies that are internationally broad, with production sites in Austria, Germany, Italy or the new EU countries, and I'm concerned about the planned new taxes. Let us not weaken our industrial and economic location with new burdens, but help you to strengthen it! The Minister of Economic Affairs is doing great work here. This budget gives it the opportunity to set priorities and priorities. I'll invite you to: Please agree! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43480	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43502	Mr President. Federal Minister! "The three-day budget debate ends on Friday with the decision of the 2012 budget. It is the first budget of Minister of Finance Maria Fekter and foresees a deficit of 3.2 per cent and a government debt of 74.6 per cent of GDP – both do not correspond to the Maastricht criteria.” – Report by the Austrian Press Agency yesterday, 10 p.m. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] “Do not match the criteria.” – This can also be calculated by the young ÖVP local group, which is not present at all, but welcomed by my colleague Lettenbichler, which is what is available for a grade in school, if it means that both do not meet the criteria. In the Committee on Budgets, the Federal Ministers also did not know how to respond to an official deficit of 219 billion, plus a deficit from ÖBB, BIG and ASFINAG of 36 billion, plus 13 billion, Mr Mayor, outsourced debt of the municipalities and the countries, thus a total of 268 billion, to 177 billion, which corresponds to the 60 percent of the Maastricht criteria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] At €91 billion we are over this 60 percent! - I don't know, no plan. It took us over the weekend, and now the debt brake has been presented to us. Debt brake – don't be angry with me, the key is too little. We have a note here, where the heading “debt brake” is on it, and if you look at it, you see, there is not much more in it than you would like to be able to reduce the deficit in the future, but we are not talking about it until 2016 when we decide on the 2017 budget, and it is only then that we should get it properly. This is all far too early now, and that is why we do not include any measures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that can't be it. That really can't be your serious. For this you will not seriously ask for our consent and of course you will not find it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is where we need measures that we are talking about and which we are now also defining. That's what they do. – And what do the others do? They vehemently call for property taxes. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: For millionaires!]] Yes, wealth taxes for millionaires. Her macro-economic miracle, your Federal Managing Director, is on television, Mr. Matznetter, and announces: Yes, only the richest 1 percent of the Austrians should be asked for the cash desk. - Beautiful. That's 80,000 people. – And then she says: They should only be taken 600 € anyway. 600 € – 80,000 people. Calculate it, and don't get confused with the zeros: That's €48 million. You won't clean up anything in Austria! Nothing at all! It's eye-removing. But also on this subject the cat is from the bag, because your experts, expert martyr and expert Rossmann from the Greens, have told us quite clearly and clearly in the budget committee. They start to count on a wealth of €300 000. 300 000 € – this is every house builder! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Not at all! You weren't in the committee! That's a nonsense!]] The middle class is to be scrapped again, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. When the SPÖ speaks of property tax or millionaire tax, it is meant to scrape the small homeowner in the country, the small dwelling owner in the city or even Grandmas or tax Grandmas savingsbook. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The millionaires!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The taxes are for Mr. Vrannitzky and Mr. Androsch!]] You can't do any different ideologically. I don't expect anything else from you. But that you're going with the ÖVP here, that's completely incomprehensible. That is completely incomprehensible! There will in no case be an agreement. And there's no wonder when the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl via “Presse” under the heading ‘When Leitl ‘gets up’’ is announced: “Yes, damn it, why don’t you do it!” – Chamber President Leitl. So do it once! Do something really, but don't shrink the little people. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The millionaires are the “little people ”?]] And since we're here on the subject of business, a few more words about tourism. It's the same every year. Tourism saves the current account – and thanks to this there are additional burdens: Reduction by non-debt of the inflation of the budgets for the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Bank, Tourism Austria, Austria Advertising. The budgets are not even adjusted for inflation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This also corresponds to the demand of the Industrial Union for a doubling of the hotel taxes. That really fits wonderfully! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Mr Hörl, you know very well, the Federal Republic of Germany reduced the hotel tax last year. What was the effect? – 5 percent less German holidaymakers in Austria. They have used the fact that it has become cheaper in Germany and have stayed at home. And for a country whose tourism is 50 percent dependent on the Federal Republic of Germany, this is a disaster when it is called on by the ÖVP's industrial association to not halve Austrian taxes on hotels too, but also to double, dear colleague Hörl. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I will finally give you the opportunity, Mr. Hörl, because today you have also been annoyed that the ticket tax you decided last year is against the economy – as we agree with God – to correct this mistake from the previous year by making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can also make a second mistake from the previous year again today. I submit the following request concerning the reintroduction of the energy tax refund for tourism companies – which you abolished last year –: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Finance, are invited to submit immediately a government proposal which reintroduces the energy refund for tourism businesses.”
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43661	May I ask colleagues to stop these large-group discussions, they are already very disturbing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you, Mr President, for being a ‘large group’!]] There were several colleagues involved, but it is really disturbing. [[Abg. Grosz: We are also a large group, Mr President.]] The two motions for resolutions which have been tabled before are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43783	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43805	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that my previous speaker has once again made a very clear observation of what some in the Freedom Party are really talking about, namely protecting the millionaires and the great rich, and contributing to the fact that those who can't really do anything for the crisis that they haven't caused. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Tax Mr. Vrannitzky and Mr. Androsch!]] Listen to us and “quark” don’t always three! You can make yourself there and discuss with us. We said quite clearly: One percent of the population owns one third of the assets, 10 percent of the population owns two thirds of the assets – and they do not contribute! And you want the little ones to make all the contributions to the necessary renovation of the state budget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is unfair, and we will certainly not agree to it. It is a matter of balance, and it is about everyone contributing according to their performance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[The speaker spoke with a very loud voice.]] [[Abg. Grosz: As at 1. May! You're not here on the 1st. May!]] [[Call of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Grosz obviously has a small problem because he made the call that we were not here on 1 January. May. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: You have a big problem!]] Dear Mr Grosz, don't be angry: ==References== May is one of the most important days for Austrian workers! It is the International Battle Day of the Workers' Movement. We won't let you shake them! You don't need to act like that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say a few sentences about the energy chapter. In the budget accompanying law, we have decided to provide additional resources for heating and cooling. We have put in place energy policy absolutely meaningful measures, and I think we can also be proud that we have once again secured €100 million for thermal renovation and thus also created jobs in the construction industry, and this time not only for single-family houses, but also for multi-storey housing. That's something we should be proud of. We will continue to do so in the future. [[Abg. Grosz: Tax Mr. Vrannitzky and Mr. Androsch!]] The next step is the Energy Efficiency Act, and it would be good if we were to implement our resolution unanimously adopted as soon as possible, so that we do not get a spotter, especially since the Lower Austrians voted on a national energy efficiency law yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: This is long overdue, Mr. Colleague!]] – I don’t think we need that, and that’s why we should give a proper gas. Mr. Federal Minister, we are working together to make this even faster than the agreed date at the end of June next year! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43952	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e43996	Mr President. Minister! I know that the plenary is not a place of silent contemplation, but perhaps we should be able to think about it without yelling. [[It is in favour of Greens and BZÖ, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] What seems very strange to me is that the opposition has to make motions for resolutions to encourage the Federal Government to implement its own plans. This is rare and is very strange. Mr. Federal Minister, you have signed a paper written by numerous experts. “The way to the Innovation Leader” is so beautiful. There are some wise thoughts inside, only they are hardly expressed here. If I hear how super everything is from Cortolezis-Schlager on the one hand or Karin Hakl, then we don't have to touch a finger at all, we already have everything. - But you don't, you know. But then I wonder why your party soldiers – I might say – are acting like the press speaker of a particular department. It stands for example inside – I read it to you – under “visions”: “ Universities, colleges and non-university research institutions work under excellent conditions and are sufficiently funded, ” This is the vision for 2020. – It was said yesterday that we were writing the year 2020. But we're far away. It is also an example inside: We want to research at the knowledge line. – Researching at the knowledge limit means conducting basic research. Your funding for this is 0.44 percent of GDP. This is not even half of what so-called demonstrations can have. Japan was famous as the country of applied research until they applied everything that was researched – and they killed their whole system and gave much more into basic research, which we lacked. The rate of increase in the drive-by research – now I am not talking about years, but about decades – amounts to four times the increase in public funds for universities and colleges. That's what I'm saying. I noticed an example: FFG, on and for itself a good research promotion tool; Biotechnology or biotechnology companies are also something innovative. But if I find a company that has existed in about 14 years and is still massively supported annually, I wonder: When can it once place itself on the market in such a way that these subsidies are not necessary? Or are the permanent loans from the FFG? – You have to look at a lot of things already when other one-person companies have hardly any more funding options. It's also inside, and you've signed this: The way forward leads through the promotion of education, research, innovation. – In the case of education, you don’t have many friends in your party when I see what is highlighted here, which is preventing 20,000 students from leaving school each year unfortunately without being able to read meaningfully. These are not the innovation leader, but they are the unemployed of the future. And that belongs to investment, which really belongs to investment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is a good tool for the population to be afraid of progress and technologies, which is the group of technology assessment of the Austrian Academy of Sciences. You don't know if it's going to be preserved, you don't know if it's being pushed off because here too is massively saved. That's not good. Countries' contribution to innovation, research and technology is extremely different. I notice that there are really good places there – a little bit of the sleeve snuggled –: the Styria, Upper Austria and Vienna, but otherwise these contributions are not famous. The universities recruit only one percent of their budgets from industry and industry – completely in addition to the international one. Perhaps there could be a ranking of the federal states and publishing what might cause the weaker or the cowards to take more money into their hands here. What still stands out: There is no research law where all research topics can be read for companies interested in looking up once. For example, reproductive medicine law, embryo protection law, stem cell research – nothing happened. Hahn has founded a working group that has once taught, and since then is actually – as you say so beautifully – Sense. So I'd like you to know that this good paper is somewhere else in contact with the ground of reality. And you need a binding, fixed financing plan, otherwise it is unfortunately a pity to have this expensive and good pressure.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44075	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44097	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the budget and go into the figures in the area of tourism exactly, you have to say at first glance, tourism has also been cut a little bit from the budget. But if you go into the depths and look at the whole numbering, then you see that basically more money is actually available for tourism. For example: The budget of the ÖHT is reduced from € 24.8 million to € 23.8 million, i.e. € one million. However, it was negotiated in the same breath with the countries that the regional funding agencies take over the smallest subsidies and the federal government, the ÖHT, deals with the other area. What the first figures already show is that the ÖHT can serve more tourism companies than it was last year. We know Austria is also a film country, at least a film production country. It is important to secure this location. And for the first time, there is a budget approach of €5 million for these film projects that have been taken from the reserves. Let's talk to the Austrian advertising and their budget. We know for years that the federal membership contribution is always € 24.9 million. The total budget of Austria's advertising for the year 2012 is € 51.8 million, € 1.4 million more than in 2011. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why is the budget higher? – Because Austria’s advertising industry partners, cooperation partners, have joined forces to apply for the Austrian market together. If we talk about a few million now, then I have to say, of course, this is very, very much money for every industry. In recent times, we have heard of new taxes, of property taxes – that is exactly what I want to address now. When this tax comes, we do not need to talk about millions of tourism promotion at all. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Why?]] It was first mentioned by your group in the budget hearing: Capital taxes from € 300 000. We know how much tourism companies are worth. And if this asset tax comes, then, I say quite clearly, we no longer need to talk about funding millions. And I think you should really return to this old saying that the economy is preaching again and again: Load us with less taxes and give us less promotion! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44149	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44171	Mr President. High house! Behind me is not a government bank, but – I see it symbolically – the indictment bank of the research landscape in Austria, because you plan, you are wasting the future of Austria, because you are not actually setting any accents in the research field. Not just that! Minister! There would actually have to be three sitting here: You, the colleague, and also the colleague Bures. It is symbolic in the field of research – which is the first problem – that we have three major sites in Austria and not a concentrated research ministry and therefore many things are messed up and not coordinated. And there are other areas of research. That means it would be the first time to focus on that. The second is: Explore your conscience about what you have announced in the government programme – and you will find that almost nothing has been done in the field of research, but almost nothing has been implemented. The only thing that happened was to increase research funding, the research premium from 8 to 10 percent. And that's where we said from BZÖ: It would have been a good thing for the to increase the size of the smaller farms and to reduce them somewhat in the industry. This is not the case either. Everything else was de facto not implemented, such as the expansion of risky and growth-oriented financing opportunities for young, innovative, technology-oriented companies. You've announced that. Nothing happened. Bundling of the Christian Doppler labs: announced, nothing has happened. The FTI strategy is a paper, but the funding, you know very well, has not taken place. The next thing I want to talk to is the budget. Three major research budgets. Yesterday I demagicized the science budget: a plus of 0.7 percent, but real a minus due to inflation. With the colleague Mitterlehner it is so that he has 100.8 million € in 2012 inside, in 2010 it was still 104.6 million €, so real also a minus, and in the next few years it hardly increases. – Shrink budget number 2. Shrink budget number 3 in research is that of Colleague Bures, who, in essence, will not increase and will even fall in 2013. And I read to you from the research and technology report, page 28 – this has been the basis for the FTI strategy, which you have practically written off again. It is said in case you want to reach this quota – i.e. 4 percent once, F&E, now we have 3.76 –: In the case of a reduction in the share of the public sector – which you want to reduce – to a third by 2020, annual additional expenditure from an average of €200 million to the middle of the decade would be necessary. 200 million € per year! Mr Minister, where are they in the budget? - I don't think so. Mrs Finanzminister! Maybe you've hidden her somewhere! Say it! So the offensives you've announced aren't there! They have, in fact, estimated defensive agents. There is less money for science, there is less money for research. That's something you really have to criticize, because that's not in line with what SPÖ and ÖVP want to make us know. One thing is quite clear: If research is shrinking, then the economy is shrinking, then the number of jobs is shrinking, tax revenue is shrinking, and then ultimately the social state is shrinking. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's why there's a lot to do. Create the concentration of the R&D agendas in a ministry! Release the resources to really reach the quota of 3.76! Set incentives for the private, too, because more to invest! Create You will finally have this endless discussion about MedUni Linz! Build it! We have a medical shortage, that's quite clear. Bring in a research funding law to create long-term security, including for basic research! Have a research premium in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises! Remove the obstacles to the promotion of SMEs, which already exist, and also focus on energy research – as I have promised – in the Eco electricity Act, 2 million! I'm sure we can find a common way. That is why, Minister or Minister, you have to solve the reform brake, because only when you solve the reform brakes I have identified can the debt brake become effective.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44249	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44270	Mr President. Mrs Fekter! Ladies and gentlemen! I remember last time in the Gas Economic Act, I mistakenly cut off the word to Mr Markowitz as far as I spoke before. I have been waiting for this today, so I have been waiting for the second round, which is all the easier than I could find in you, Mr Windholz, an appropriate approach to the budget – unlike Mr Widmann. I wonder what You have referred to the promotion, because the part of SMEs cannot have been the part that you have quoted from the government programme. In fact, last year we had 70 percent for small and medium-sized enterprises at AWS, 80 percent this year, i.e. quite specific and precise implementation of the SME programme. But be it, you can understand. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would rather start with the basic. The economy is actually running very well this year. Despite a flattening towards the end of this year and especially in the last quarter, we will achieve almost 3 percent economic growth. This is about the double of what other countries have in the EU area. Now I do not want to put a feather on the virtual hat, but this is of course a merit for the companies and their employees. But, ladies and gentlemen, that the framework conditions cannot be wrong, you can also derive from it, because we have had much worse starting conditions than some other countries. Unfortunately, there is a risk of infection in the financial sector, in the real economy there is a relatively pessimistic mood, and worldwide growth forecasts are declining. This is also true of Austria. In other words, economy is no longer a self-runner, as it seems this year, but economy needs serious support and the right measures. I believe that we are in principle well positioned by the measures that are not to be taken from today to tomorrow, if we look at our diversification strategy abroad and on international markets. As far as the products are concerned, we are going more closely from the investment goods sector in the service and creative industries and can prove this over the last three years. This makes us more independent and successful from the automotive sector and works. Second: We have seen, in the crisis, that Europe is simply growing weak. We have responded correctly and go to spread the risk to the other markets and have success there. So our share, which has been over 80 percent in Europe in 2008, is now falling below 80 percent. That means that Europe is still important, but the other markets are even more important to spread the risk. It is therefore necessary, in the face of a threatening crisis, to actively counter it. I think this aspect is correct, therefore ‘go international’, which is clearly taught in this budget, with a focus on the markets outside Europe. And a second point in “go international” is the involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises. This too is increasingly successful. If growth markets become weaker internationally, then of course the question arises: What is the corresponding stimulation in the domestic area? Regio and others expect a boost in trade insofar as a real increase in purchasing power should take place here. On the other hand, think of thermal rehabilitation. I believe that this is quite a proper measure, and it has also been discussed today. We have again defined it as a priority for the domestic sector in the budget. The question is whether we can achieve the recovery rate with what we trigger in terms of investment and support. Probably we're down there, from one to three percent we want to raise. But it has been shown this year that more than 100 million can hardly be implemented on the market, because there has been an appreciation in this case when we were able to grow exactly the 100 million this year. But what was the output of the whole? Look at the production index of the construction industry from the end of last month! There you will find: 9 percent increase in this area. This is above average and will also be of particular use to us in the crisis, as the action will continue next year. Mr Themessl, we have often discussed the question of the interaction of the sectors of work on the one hand and the economy on the other. Mr Matznetter has already mentioned it, in the final effect it does not matter; of course it would also be nice if it were in one area. But I think that this is really the best way to work together. Take a look at the data on the labour market and the economy. We do not want to put ourselves in the foreground with the framework conditions, but in principle, I believe, we are properly positioned. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So that there is also a problem which has now been raised more strongly in these days, and I do not know whether you have noticed the contradiction. Many have said: Now you must finally reform the funding system! And if you're talking about the debt brake, why don't you go into this area? – Not a few of you who spoke before, however, have said that I do not understand why research and why not be taught higher there and there. I believe that the contradiction is not so insoluble at all, and I would also like to prove to you what I mean by that. Mr Obernosterer has already referred to the ÖHT area, where, next year and also last year, we went down by one million in the corresponding budget, with the following consequence: that we did not have to see a reduction in funding activities, but an increase. And the funding pyramid that we have set up in the course of the tourism strategy has helped us in so far as up to 100 000 are promoting the countries, from 100 000 in the main of the federal government. This has resulted in simply more overall development. Getting Now They ask: Where's the secret of the resolution? – Probably so similar to the thermal rehabilitation that many take-over effects and double promotions are avoided. Therefore, if we reform the funding, we will be a consequence of achieving a better balance between the federal government and countries. Second point: For example, we have in the research promotion society a participation of two federal states in the examination of the funding. The federal states Oberösterreich and Salzburg thus have their funding activities checked by the FFG. This leads to the fact that in each federal state, about four employees who did so before could do or be saved. This leads, in particular, to the applicant’s not having to make three, four applications or at least two, but a single one. The FFG examines that the cost-saving is there, and above all, it is possible to set appropriate regional priorities in Upper Austria or in another federal country as well as in Salzburg, without this being administratively difficult. The question is: Can we not do this coordination with the other federal states? We will invite them in this direction. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Third point in this context: We have found that there is a principle in England and wherever one is in the process of searching through the funding, that is: One in, one out. When a new rail is opened, another one that is least used will be set in the final effect. We want to do the same with us. Just, Mrs. Lichtenecker, we've just made the test in the tourism sector, 200 promotions don't come from 20. So a zero was too much. But that's still a lot, can you also ask in the area? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Try it!]] - I didn't try it personally now. In any case, our opinion was that a colleague tried it, less. Don't worry about it. I hope that we will have the support of the opposition in this area if we reform the funding that you are going here. In the final effect, I think there's much more inside. And the secret of the entire debt brake cannot be that you make less of it everywhere, but it makes it more efficient and still increases performance. And that's exactly what we're going to work on. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To allegations as to the field of research: I think it's right – because Maria Fekter is sitting here: I think that was the right focus! – we need to save and be more efficient, but two areas have not been shortened: the research and development sector and the family sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – We come to the family area afterwards. Mr Widmann, on research: What our budget area – I am now talking about my budget and not also about all of my colleagues – we have a total increase of 26.3 percent in 2009/2010/2011/2012 if you compare this with the previous donations. Why? – Because in this period, an economic package has been running, within which we have increased funding in research and development in 2009 and, above all, in 2010. In 2010, it was € 104.6 million, which was a huge increase compared to € 79.8 million. We were able to achieve this increase. However, they compare 2010 to 2011 and see the decline to €96 million. That's not right, you really have to look at that overall. [[Abg. May. Widmann: 4 percent it is!]] And here I can tell you that we have now – and this is positive – increased by 4 percent. We have kept the amount not only, but also increased from €96 million to €100 million. I therefore believe that we can say with fug and law: The research and development sector has a significant role to play in the overall budget. Professor Grünewald, you have rightly quoted the FTI strategy and said there is still much to do. I am the last person who cannot count, and I know that if I have 2.76 percentage points and want 3.76 percentage points, I will have to do more. But I see in this area a few starting points what I can do if I no longer have a budget. If it succeeds in order research, which is not contained in my budget or in the other budget, but is located at the Ministry of Finance, we will have an input there, which will be positive in the quota. A second input, which is also not in the budget but will become effective, is: So far, the Austrian Business Agency has focused its activities on headquarters as a result of foreign advertising. However, as Central Europe and some countries from Eastern Europe are now in the EU, this process is no longer particularly attractive, and we are therefore implementing it. What? – To the application of the research and development site Austria. I think this makes sense because we have 15 percent of foreign-funded research – Germany has only 4 percent. In the clear text, that means: If we manage to get even more foreigners than before to Austria, the F&E quota will rise in this area. Of course, these are just one or two steps, but will take us in the right direction, beyond what we have taught. Mr Widmann. Mrs. Lichtenecker! You have addressed a question concerning energy research. This may be true of the one area, but I also say to you that we intend to strengthen the activities within the framework of the FFG. We, Mr Widmann, will achieve exactly what we have promised in the decision-making of the Eco electricity Act, namely a priority in the field of energy research of €4 million per year. We'll put this to you, you can understand. I mean, that's what I can say. We also implement what we say accordingly. These are not empty announcements, but the concrete fulfilment of the respective points. There's another thing to do here: For most – I don't know how the listeners and listeners are now – research and development is not the most important topic, there are more important ones. That's why we have to do something to make it more experienceable. We are the only ministry to promote the long night of research again more intensively. I believe that this is an important point of approach in order to achieve a higher importance of innovation and research in the public. The FTI strategy provides that we increase the share of small and medium-sized enterprises by 25 percent, which is the result of research and development. The innovation check has proved itself very well. We will expand the innovation check – in the order of 5 000 € to 10 000 €, we have done so, but above all in three areas: innovation, export and the creative sector. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to address all the budget details here, you have already mentioned and discussed them in part, but only the major developments. I think you have already explained that what we have from the classification will help us to be prepared for structural change, so that we will continue to be successful internationally. And if the crisis is to grow stronger, we are also prepared to see what AWS and ERP are about to do, that we can react quickly with the Council of Ministers decision and also at the level of short work. Therefore, I would like to say that this could be a matter of convergence, because we are sure that with optimism, with the measures and also with the support of the still best placed establishments, we will not need all these measures, which could be put in a defensive way, but rather that we will move forward with structural change and thus also success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44362	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44384	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, as you have already mentioned the short work, I would like to take the opportunity to highlight the generally positive and stabilising impact of the tourism and leisure industry in recent years. I hope that this will continue to be despite forecast economic downturn, because short-term work is not a solution. We have an employment summit next week, and I hope that we can then talk about this issue there. I would also like to stress that the working conditions are of different quality and that innovation is also necessary in the framework conditions for workers, especially in this sector, but also a continuous development in the field of training and training for workers in these sectors, especially as regards innovation, which is the result of IT advertising, e-commerce. On this occasion, when speaking of the workers in the tourism and leisure sectors, allow me to say a word about the early withdrawal of the different early retirement age for women. I ask you, Minister of State: How many women with 60 years of age can be found in the tourism and leisure industry, which is not family members and also full-time employees? I would be very grateful if we could get a statistics on this, because that would relativize this discussion a little. Once again, Mr President, I should like to emphasize the tourism strategy that you have initiated. I believe that better coordination has already shown itself in the efficiency of Austria's advertising, which has positive results with the same means – you will probably not dispute that, Mr President. [[Abg. Markowitz:, but still much more could happen!]] I believe that it is also important that we have seen that the funding pyramid clearly “resists” the intelligent saving; this shows the total investment volume of the first nine months. Nevertheless, we still have the problems of bed utilization and seasonal extension, which may also increase in the event of a downturn in the economy. That is why it will be necessary for us to maintain the purchasing power of the people. You should take this into account in all your savings and distribution policy discussions, because only millions of people who like to protect you will not be able to survive the Austrian tourism and leisure industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44421	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44443	Mr President. Mrs Financier! Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, you are talking about saving and becoming more efficient. – The economy is very efficient, especially SMEs, otherwise they will survive these silent We don't have a series of times. And to save, I have to say, the government would actually be asked. Since 2010, we have been discussing Greece's help here in the house. We started at €45 billion, then went to €440 billion, now we stand at €780 billion ESM, and you know and say that this sum should still be raised and can, at €2 000 billion. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, you have managed with your government in economic policy at European level, but also at Austrian level. This is evidenced by the statistics of SMEs, which generate less and less profits and are increasingly suffering from the yoke of standardisations and certifications. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, you are talking about necessary structures. What is the direction in which the structure goes? Where does the restructuring in the economy or in the agricultural sector lead? Will the last farm producing or producing farms be Monsanto or Nestlé, or will it be our farmers? Will the last producing companies be corporations, or will it be our small-structured economy, which ÖVP and SPÖ have repeatedly praised to heaven, but for which no – zero – client policy is pursued? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The government coalition began in 2008 to launch necessary reform measures, of course against very powerful social partners. Today, however, it looks like I have to say: Either the government is unwilling to reform, or it is simply and simply inability to reform. But then it should open the way for new elections so that free citizens, free countries, free states and free peoples can exist again in an economically prosperous Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44497	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44518	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Jury, this horror scenario you just released here is not at all right. [[Abg. Jury: This is a terrible scenario!]] [[Abg. Jury: It's coming!]] Look at the key data: best employment in Austria, highest employment and lowest unemployment rate. How can this be in line with your statements made here? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is simply irresponsible to continue to deepen such a mood in a very precarious time, if in reality it is quite different. In recent times, we have greatly improved the framework conditions for economic development in Austria. Of course, the mood is also part of this; the mood is a very important part of the economy. We have been able to increase significantly from 20 percent of GDP in 2000 to over 50 percent, especially in the export sector. We already generate more than €100 billion abroad. As far as research and development is concerned, which the Minister has just carried out, we have really taken all the measures and used the opportunities we have available in Austria in a budget manner. We are very far above in this area in European comparison statistics. However, we have also been able to significantly improve the fiscal framework for the economy since 2003/2004, and I can tell you that, for example, group taxation is a real success story. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in 2003, 405 535 people were employed by group carriers, in 2010 – the last figures are available – were 1 280 780 people in group carriers in Austria, with a wage tax and tax income of over €6 billion. We will not let that happen in the future either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must continue this path, even with regard to the tax burden on businesses, because we have seen it: The reduction in corporate tax from 34 to 25 percent has brought a clear tax added result. We had about €1.7 billion of corporate tax revenue before the reduction, next year it will be about 5.6 billion to €6 billion. Overall, we are particularly good on the road. We have also put in place appropriate support measures for small businesses, as the Minister has already said. More than 11 000 small and medium-sized enterprises have also been involved in small and medium-sized ERP loans – that is, in total important points. The Eco electricity Act will also bring initiatives to this end. Finally, I would like to thank the Federal Minister for helping young masters at least with a symbolic amount in the near future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44600	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44621	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! I have just congratulated the two ministers, because they seem to fit together so perfectly – yes, that's probably why – but I also have to urge the Federal Ministers here to try to make more money available for Austrian tourism in the future. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: And from Upper Austria!]] I think that's where we have to put the lever. Austria is a tourist country, we know. In this area, 7.9% of GDP is generated. If I look at the government programme and the 2012 budget, I know – and you, Minister – that the budget has permanently decreased. In 2007 it was still €46 million, 2011 it is only €30 million, 2012 it will be only €26.8 million. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] – Yes, I know I heard that very well. Yes, you're right, but we have to do something about this! You will probably also agree with me that there is a need for advertising in Austria. There is a command of the hour to act, for nothing has happened in recent years. We have also tabled a five-party proposal, initiated by the BZÖ, which calls for an adjustment of the membership contributions. We should finally do this in a next step! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Obernosterer, you still don't have to fix who you are both the tourist speakers, either Col. Hörl or you. You seem to speak for Carinthia and for yourself, but we from the BZÖ are trying to make Austrian tourism policy in order to go a little further in this area. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] An important point is what we will continue to address in the future to create the legal framework for facilitating the transfer of family businesses, and I am pleased that, as it seems, we will be submitting a five-party application to our initiative. It is usually the case that a large burden lies on the next generation as regards debt in terms of passing on to the tax burden. I do not understand that there is now an inheritance tax again, because I have a tax burden in relation to the basic tax anyway, and it is estimated how much the farms are worth. The next generation is burdened with such high debt that it simply doesn't work. Then we all don't need to wonder that there are corporate pleas. That's why we have to put on the lever. I believe that this proposal initiated by the BZÖ is the right way to give the next generation a chance to exist. It must be our goal to act so that the next generation is not overly burdened. What I would like to say is that the situation is the apprentices. You have said stone and clear, the Blum-Bonus does not interest you. Otherwise formulated, but put to the point, you said the Blum bonus does nothing, we need to invent another system. I am telling you stunned and clear, my group and I do not care what the bonus means, whether it is called Blum-Bonus, Markowitz-Bonus, Bucher-Bonus or Mitterlehner-Bonus, is totally irrelevant. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] – Markowitz at any time, for the future, yes. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] It is important to me that young people who need a job and look for a job also get a job and that they get a chance. What the Blum-Bonus has brought is clearly documented, namely, 12,000 additional apprenticeships; you are certainly aware of this too. We must finally do something in the future to ensure that the economy and small and medium-sized enterprises are moving in the right direction in order to give young people a chance again. I have nothing against over-company teaching workshops, only that is not the final conclusion of wisdom, we know that too. It is important to drive the economy so that young people get a chance again, especially in tourism. It would be nice if we could stand here next time and say: We do not have 1 400 open teaching places, but perhaps only 200 more because you are finally making a campaign, as we have long called for, so that young people can work in the tourism sector again. Then we all have something of it, not only the young people but also Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44695	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44716	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the last building committee there was a very detailed discussion of the Federal Property Society, and the Minister also gave an opinion on this. Therefore, I would like to briefly address three other construction materials which are also relevant to the economy. ministry, namely the housing law on public utility, the heating billing law and, in short, the thermal renovation. The housing law is the basis for a manageable living space. Reducing housing funds and rising real estate prices, of course, also make it difficult for the non-profit sector to make such offers available. It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to safeguard the non-profit housing economy in the law and, on the other hand, to adapt the law to the current framework conditions and, on the other hand, to make it more flexible. Similarly, it is in the heating billing law, which is supposed to be a protection law for heat consumers, which should guarantee a transparent billing and which should also use as much energy efficient heating systems as possible. The scope of application must be or should be guaranteed for all users in the future, for all heat customers, so that access is also available to those who are currently excluded. These are the tenants of dwellings. That is to say, there is a need for a fundamental new regulation so that it is adapted to modern requirements. A short time ago, only for thermal renovation – she has already been mentioned, the Minister has already commented on this –: I would also like to add the partial aspect that the private housing sector should also have the possibility of partial renovation, so that not only the full rehabilitation is promoted. In principle, I think that there is a willingness to talk with all the problems outlined and that our Federal Minister Mitterlehner also stands for a constructive, common solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44758	Mr Bundesminister Dr. Mitterlehner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44780	Mr President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Only in a short time to the Member of Parliament, Markowitz – now I don't see him at all – because he always addresses the flower bonus: It's quickly explained that he's in error. The error is as follows: The Blum-Bonus was focused on the fact that in times when it is difficult to accommodate all job seekers, a promotion is helpful that someone who already has apprentices takes up additional. That has proved to be the case. But now the problem has just reversed: They have too few apprentices because ten thousand 15-year-olds are less on the market, so to speak, and they compete with the school. Now, if you want to promote any additional that they don't get, that's going to be empty somewhere. Therefore, you need to consider whether you may be paying directly to the apprentice a promotion – that would be a new idea – so that he does not go to school, but goes into the business. [[Abg. Riepl: An interesting proposal!]] But otherwise, this flower story is simply no longer usable as an argument from the time it comes from other areas. I hope we cleared it up once.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44821	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44858	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Short to the flower bonus: They always argue quite skillfully, but it might not be bad to sit down with Mr Blum again. We'll do that soon, because there are already very interesting approaches to maybe redesign a flower bonus and offer the companies to actively create apprenticeships. I would like to say that at this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, now on another subject which falls into your domain, not to think innovatively of a practical or a proposal for a solution from the Freedom Party, which is always accused of: Now it is about me presenting you with a variant to ultimately drive through energy saving measures to reduce the dependence on fossil energy sources. Because energy fun, energy saving measures should actually still face renewable energy sources. [[Call to the ÖVP: “Species”?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This is a very specific issue for us about the conversion of old-cast lighting devices to LED technology. That is what we are going to do. You have certainly heard, this is very cost-effective. I will also give you a description of why this is really a super variant and a very environmentally friendly measure, which will ultimately reduce energy consumption very quickly. A few facts about this: LED lamps have the highest energy efficiency and also the highest life span, namely over 50 000 hours. A normal light bulb with 600 lumen luminosity consumes 60 watts, as many know, an LED lamp with the same luminosity, on the other hand, only 8 watts. An example of a car house in Western Austria: We have actually reduced electricity consumption by € 1,200, and the leasing rate – because the investment costs are, of course, quite high – is €800. That is, one can calculate after Adam Ries that this investment is already expected from the first month. That's a great thing. Now I'm coming to Your place. Of course, we know that in municipalities, in country buildings, in federal buildings, as well as in private and public companies, millions of light bulbs are in use. A switch to LED lamps would immediately reduce costs and considerably protect the environment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I mentioned it earlier: The investment costs are high. But there is something we have considered, namely that we are drawing on the community credit AG for the investment, which, as we all know, is national. We could take these into account that it should create financing models for municipalities, for the federal government, for federal buildings, so that an initiative by the Austrian Federal Government, together with municipal credit Austria AG, offers itself with an offensive leasing variant for companies and municipalities. The model only brings winners, I want to sum it up again: The environment is protected by declining energy consumption, costs are falling, it is often calculated from the first day. The municipal credit – perhaps not a bad argument – opens up a new business area. And also a very interesting thing: State expenditure on the CO2 certificates often known is falling. For this reason, the FPÖ, with the Member of Parliament Themessl and other Members of Parliament on LED leasing initiative for municipalities and businesses, has tabled the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44928	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e44993	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45014	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am working on the promotion of thermal rehabilitation and am particularly pleased that it was also possible for 2012 in times of scarceer funding to take the appropriate resources into account in the budget. 100 million € are made available, 50 million € each from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Life. In 2011, too, this funding has already been available. These €100 million have attracted €840 million in funding – a great achievement, considering that a total of 800 business projects and more than 17 000 private apartments have been funded. Overall, the rehabilitation check has become a success story from my point of view. It provides incentives for energy saving, it strengthens the quality of living, and it brings orders for small and medium-sized enterprises and thus creates jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Finally! Finally, you have come to this realization!]] That is, the 2011 balance sheet can be seen. What does the 2012 outlook show? . I should like to draw up two points which are to be discussed: firstly, to strengthen the promotion of listed buildings. This is not only positive for urban areas, but, in my opinion, also for local, market centres in rural areas. For me, the second point is the extension of the scope of promotion for tenants. In addition, I personally also wish we were able to create further incentives in the right of residence. Ladies and gentlemen, for me, the rehabilitation check is proof of intelligent investment promotion despite empty cash. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I am glad that the green idea will be implemented!]] Rehabilitation check helps save energy. For me, he is also an important contribution to the future without nuclear power. That is why I would like to thank Minister Berlakovich, Minister Mitterlehner and also our wife, Minister of Finance Maria Fekter. – Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45064	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45085	Mr President. High house! If you look more closely at the debt crisis, the reactions of many politicians and sometimes experts, you wonder: Is it really a surprise that almost all Western states are currently experiencing a debt crisis? If we look at history, we see that – now in Austria – Kreisky took over the government business with a total debt of 3 billion in the 1970s. After the Kreisky era, we were nine times, at 27 billion. We have now arrived ten times, at 270 billion in debt. I can still vividly recall the debate between Kreisky and Mock in 1983 on the occasion of the National Council election. At the time, in the case of total debt of 27 billion, the debt problem was also a major issue. At the time, both unisono said that this cannot continue in the long run. And what happened, what happened in the following years? – We now have the tenfold of debt, we have 270 billion instead of 27 billion total debts. If you look at the situation that many states, including Austria, have problems with their debts, then it is no wonder. It's really no wonder: If you live for decades on pump, then one day – every private person knows – comes the point at which it just doesn't go on anymore. Then the debt is so large that only the interest payments are such a heavy burden that it is precisely a debt cut or corresponding measures. Why am I saying this today? - We're talking about economy. I say it because, looking at history, one sees very well that an expansional monetary policy – that is, making more debts – always has a positive impact on the economy. Kreisky has proposed this: Kreisky has reversed debt and managed to achieve an economic growth of over 10 percent over a very long time. That's what he's done with more debt. Many countries do. Many countries have made more debt and thus promoted the economy. We did it again. We have done it in a relatively moderate size since Kreisky, but then quite strongly in the crisis. In the crisis, we supported the economy again through more debt – and it has been much more so. Now we're right at the point when many say there's a recession. The question is not whether it comes or not, but the question is, when does it come? She'll be guaranteed, and she'll get worse than 2008. Why? – If the whole world, including us, starts to save, then the economy will suffer. It's a natural law, it can't be different. That is, a debt brake is always an economic brake. Now we are exactly on the point that we have to expect a serious economic crisis next year, because the whole world is beginning to save. Whenever economies live in Saus and Braus for years, they spend money, make debt over debt, put money into the economy accordingly, and then suddenly stop, a recession threatens, one of Biblical proportions. We can't imagine what's happening to us today. Now the question is: What are we gonna do about it? – The state can't do anything anymore. One thing is also certain: If we experience the advances or the beginning recession next year, the state can no longer counter it. We're at the limit, we're standing down with our pants. [[Abg. Oils: Here you go!]] We don't have any more money. We need to save, we can't take on extra debts. If we do, we will pay every euro that we so additionally pump into the economy with 2 or 3 € more interest payments because our credit will decrease accordingly if we do not get down from the debt. That is, the state will not be able to get the money. So where does it come from? – In other words, we need economic recovery programmes that do not cost the state a euro. There are many, there are indeed many, only we do not use them. As far as the thermal rehabilitation which the Minister has addressed is concerned: 100 million we spend, 100 million € for the thermal renovation. The state is not costing the state at all, it is not a euro. On the contrary, only by means of VAT do these 100 million return already. I am not yet talking about the effect of employment and the other taxes, which also flow back. But what are we doing? – The Minister says that we are making fifty/fifty anyway, that is a total of 100 million for thermal rehabilitation, and he himself admits that we cannot even meet the recovery rate in the first place. So why not take more money if it doesn't cost us anything anyway?- Oh, my God! The Minister says: "Oh, that's not possible, because the companies cannot handle this huge order at all, and if you put 200 million or one billion in there, you can't handle it! – Minister, we have almost 300,000 unemployed. Faith You also don't think that if the companies have corresponding orders, they are flexible enough to hire people to finish this order? This is not an argument, therefore: Do more in this direction! It costs nothing and brings a lot. Or: Why don't we see that the private sector is taking more money into its hands? – We know that the private sector currently has €200 billion on the high edge. Here too, we can do something, that is, in particular in the area of venture capital. We know that many businesses don't get money from the bank. Especially young emerging companies, for example in the IT sector, do not receive any money from the bank. They even laugh at them. I had a founder with me who wanted to develop apps for Android phones; he went to the bank, he needed 100 000 € for programs, for computers and for all these things. They laughed at him there because he had no security. In this particular area, we need venture capital, that is, venture capital, that private companies can easily participate in such companies with their capital, thus setting up the money that banks do not want to give up. Or: Expand employee participation models! And something that is also important: more flexible working time models, so that those companies that have problems, especially if there are few orders, can be more flexible. Another point is also very important. I know it's a radical step, but we face radical problems, and radical problems need radical steps. That is why we must finally push back the power of the union! [[Abg. Oils: Aha!]] The union has an absolutely destructive influence in very, very many companies. [[Abg. Riepl: Can you judge that?]] That is to say, the union is slowing down where it goes, standing on the brake and preventing it in many businesses – I am not talking about the ÖBB, since it is anyway a disaster, but also in many other companies the union is permanently on the brake – modern adjustments to be competitive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl]] [[Abg. Riepl: Say one!]] All these things we have to deal with, we need these radical steps! [[Abg. Oillinger: What modern adjustments? What modern adjustments?]] If, for example, we also look at private housing [[Abg. Oillinger: Well, tell me!]] Private housing is weakening. Why does he do that? – Because the properties are now unfinanceable. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] There are regions where we have to lay 200 000, 250 000, 300 000 € for real estates. [[Abg. Huber: 3 million!]] That is, we can do something by consistently opening up, by decreed maximum prices, that we will thus return to cheap housing and that private housing will start again. [[Abg. Oil: Who?]] [[Abg. Riepl: Dangerous view!]] He's weakening, and as a result, there's something done. One point is still missing in the list, namely homework. Now I have told you what the private sector can do, but the state must also do its homework. [[Abg. Oillinger: But you too!]] The state must finally start to save itself, in the administrative area, wherever unnecessary money is destroyed! When the crisis comes – and I guarantee you, it comes and becomes brutal – and we don't do our homework, we stand there with downpants and then we can't handle it at all. [[Abg. Ollinger: She's already here anyway!]] [[Abg. Oils: Again!]] That is why, Minister, you do your homework and see that the private sector can become more involved in businesses in order to create money that banks are no longer willing to give! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45322	Next speaker. Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45343	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! I would like to say a word to the teaching staff. The problem is often not that apprenticeships or teaching places are missing, but the problem, especially in tourism, is that no one is willing to make a teaching in tourism. Because what prospects are there waiting for me? Small apprentice compensation and bad working conditions in the future, either on weekends or in the evening. I think that even when it comes to teaching, it is necessary to do so. to strengthen and, above all, to attack tourism companies a little bit harder. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now to the creative companies: Creative companies are often confused with non-profit companies or with art projects and are not taken seriously economically. However, the gross value added of cultural and creative enterprises, in Germany in particular, is a factor of 1.6 greater than that of the automotive industry, as the cultural and creative industries need very little intermediate services for their production. In addition to the current project promotions, Austria lacks support for policy measures that support the development of a creative scene, a creative community. These support measures have already led to success in other countries such as Germany, Finland or the Netherlands. I am delighted and it is extremely beautiful that the Minister of Economic Affairs also sees this and takes appropriate initiatives. But, Minister, the previous offers are unfortunately not accepted to the desired extent. Therefore, there is an urgent need for restructuring, a reorganisation in the following points: It needs creative quarters, i.e. laboratories that allow the cultural and creative industries to access up-to-date technologies as well as personnel resources through shared infrastructure. A further important point, apart from project funding, is the increased opening up of classical economic support for the cultural and creative economy: Funding for the cultural and creative economy, as it exists, for example, in France. At European level, funds from the Structural Funds will also be made more accessible to the cultural and creative industries in the coming years. If these European funds are to be made available, it is essential for Austria to have a co-financing stop. One last point: A major support for the cultural and creative industries would also be the development of scene-to-face incubators, the start-ups at the start-up, the finding of the legal form, the search for finance or similar things, because many entrepreneurs do not need direct financial support, but specific assistance in setting up businesses.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45394	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45416	Mr President. Minister! I therefore spoke, because I would like to get you a bit out of the political Lethargy, which is what is happening to a group that is probably one of the largest contributors in the Austrian state budget at around €30 billion a year, namely the Austrian drivers, Mr Minister. Mr Minister, what has been happening in the spring price sector in recent months, almost years, is a unique scandal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: in European comparison?]] But what is even bigger scandal is that you, Mr. Minister, watch, put your hands in the lap and only then and when with those responsible hold some coffee wreaths, where then zero comes out! We now have the situation that the diesel is getting more expensive than the normal petrol or both, that does not matter, and that the Austrian drivers are suffering from an increase in the spray price, most of which is homemade in Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is far from the international spray price that the Minister of Economic Affairs has always wanted to give us, because in recent months, almost years, it can be seen that, although every price increase in the international market is being made by the Austrian mineral oil industry, it is not a single reduction! She always disappears. Once it goes down, you stay at the same level, Mr Minister! We cannot accept this because the Austrian car driver already pays seven different taxes: from VAT to VAT in the case of car purchases, the standard consumption tax, the motor insurance tax, the normal insurance tax, the mineral oil tax and, finally, the increasingly expensive vignette. That's the fact, Minister. [[Abg. Neubauer: Parking fees!]] The Austrian driver has been one of the main contributors for many years, not only milk cow, but also one of the main contributors. That is why you should finally take care of him and stand up to the Austrian drivers, Minister! That's the job you've had. [[BZÖ and Abg. Mayerhofer.]] The spray price insanity now has system here with us in the country. Every weekend the spray prices shoot up because the Austrians spend their free time by car and drive more. At the beginning of the week, the price goes down very easily and before holidays, before longer holidays it speeds up again. I'll tell you: It's unacceptable what's happening. You have the obligation to finally leave the whole of the Mafia in the Austrian mineral oil industry, Mr Minister! [[BZÖ and Abg. New builder.]] You have this commitment because many people depend on their car. People in the country, mothers who have to bring their children to school, need the car! Mothers who have to go shopping in the country because they don't have the local care as close as many believe they depend on their car! – Missing theirs This year, too, with €40 million, you have an increase in mineral oil tax, so that it only does so, Minister. We can't understand that. You should finally bring the mineral oil forests from the OMV into the ministry and explain to them that they have made €5 billion in net profit within the last four years. Therefore, it is necessary that you bring them to the table once and then negotiate a special dividend of the OMV for the Austrian drivers! [[BZÖ and Abg. Mayerhofer.]] That would be your task, Mr Minister, and at the same time introduce a maximum price scheme according to the Luxembourg model. [[Abg. Grosz: Since 1999!]] It is not a plan-based, totally opaque maximum price scheme, but one in which the mineral oil industry, which first has to pay a special dividend, does not immediately re-apply these special dividends to the spray price. We need a maximum price system, which results from a flexibilization of the oil tax. In other words, if international prices rise, mineral oil tax will fall and if they go up, they will be able to remain the same. That's what we demand, Minister. That would be a creative policy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another thing about the pendulums. 1.8 million counterparts are available in Austria, Minister. Come now They therefore say: Well, they're getting a pendulum deposit. – Minister, every second donor does not enjoy the penalty. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is really a scandal!]] They know exactly – and once the trade union could say something about it – that each other is below the €11,000 and therefore has no possibility of obtaining the penalty. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Naughty!]] That is why there is an error in the system of the penalty, which is linked to the income or to the tax declaration! [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. Dr. Moser.]] That is why, Minister, we want the system to be converted into a real kilometre of the journeyed miles to and from the workplace. That would be a sensible system that would help Austrian drivers! Mr. Minister, there's a need for action. Don't get up and say, I'm doing something! I meet them, drink a coffee. I have now reached, it is already wonderful that the spray prices cannot go up and down within one day. – This is a matter of course, Mr Minister! After all, it is a criminal act against the consumers in Austria that they are unable to calculate what they have to pay for every time they go to the gas station, and therefore they cannot make any budget at all. In the meantime, driving is a major budgetary factor in the family's private budgets, especially in the country! We must also take this into account, Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Markowitz: Exactly!]] Therefore: Get off with the mineral oil mafia, make a maximum price scheme, coupled with the mineral oil tax! Finally take back this non-social mineral oil tax increase and introduce a new system of support to the commuters! One last, a second topic: Much has now been discussed about the cultivation of the so-called stone farm grounds in Vienna, where a historical ensemble is to be destroyed in its inventory – nothing else can be said in truth. There are rumors as to what happens to land speculation, that there are things that we do not want, namely, that, because of speculation transactions, a substance that has grown historically. We therefore believe that it would be important to prevent land speculation and, in general, the cultivation of such land, which is partly real jewels in our urban planning, through a constitutionally concluded state agreement. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We are also here protecting ourselves against this historic ensemble, so that the plots or the land speculations are not allowed to run freely.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45596	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45663	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45684	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I've only got a few minutes, and that's right right now, colleague Westenthaler, on the subject you've raised. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Randomly!]] Somewhere I have the impression that you have followed the discussion now, and in fact the BZÖ has brought in quite little on the subject of economic competence. [[Abg. Riepl: They have nothing at all!]] Mr Bucher and Mr Scheibner, who have always considered this subject to be the main theme of the party, have not even reported themselves. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] - That's another question. As far as the budget relevance is concerned... – This question is public-relevant, but not budget-relevant. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Minister, 30 billion taxes, is that not relevant to the budget?- Oh, my God!]] Nevertheless, I do not want to press ahead with an opinion. I tell you quite openly... – May I just say that quickly? [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] I can assure you that the whole price trend, which is the result of fuels, is very dissatisfying because it goes up. The reasons are of a variety of nature, but they are unfortunately felt throughout Europe. If you compare the prices in Austria with those in Europe as a whole, you have the same curve everywhere. [[Abg. Grosz: Slovenia!]] Regardless of that, one of the reasons for this slight increase in mineral oil tax is that it was necessary for budget recovery and savings and has been made. However, it has not brought any bags into the corresponding comparability, but it is relatively similar. It is also unfair that we should now be able to go in this area and make a maximum price scheme. You know why? – Yes, Mr Grosz, not so excited! [[Abg. Grosz: In 1999, the National Council adopted a regulation!]] – I only have this right when we find out – maybe you will take the opportunity to listen to me, then you may not repeat it again. [[Abg. Grosz: You didn't use it!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I am telling you the background: They can only make an official price scheme if there is a European imbalance, i.e. if prices are different from those in Austria in Europe as a whole and if there is evidence of an abuse. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A little courage, Minister!]] [[Abg. Grosz: cartel formation!]] - Just not, we've checked that! You can compare! Do it! It is so everywhere in Europe. The second thing that you do not consider and that is just case law is the following: If you make an official price arrangement, you must also provide for corresponding profits for the respective providers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then makes a special dividend!]] And now I want to know: The margins are revealed. Have you noticed, Mr Westenthaler, that the company OMV is changing its gas stations to automatic gas stations because it has not reached any margins in the system area so far? So I don't like the big profits, the “abscending mentality” there. I don't like the term “mafia” you chose there. You probably didn't mean that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that's it!]] - Okay, that's your thing. But in the final effect, these companies make the profits with other business segments. The margins and the basic constellation of calculation have been revealed to us and the competition authority respectively. Because you always rise with the argument when prices rise, if the prices are reduced in Rotterdam, will not be followed immediately. – This, of course, has a connection to the maintenance costs. He doesn't tank directly in Rotterdam. It is not true that if there is a reduction in Rotterdam, he has it right away, but he unfortunately has maintenance and logistics costs. The problem of the gas industry and the gas station system is not that the tenants achieve all so large revenues, but the problem is that in Austria we are relatively large or flat-structured and there have high personnel costs. No community has a joy when one gas station is locked up after another; then the argument of the surface cover is immediately mentioned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Landestankstelle!]] That is why I would like to say, Mr Westenthaler, that you are now becoming a third car driver club because you are addressing this issue in the budget area. [[Abg. Markowitz: A good idea!]] This may be a task for the party. But I think if you bring this back to the real circumstances, I say: Give me, Mr Westenthaler, the means by which I can control international markets and arrange prices there! Give me the opportunity to reduce crises regarding Libya or other suppliers! If we do not have that, we will unfortunately, unfortunately, have even longer there and there a corresponding price trend upwards. And as far as countermeasures are concerned, such as deposits and flatrates, and whatever possibilities there are, we need to discuss this in the framework of the tax reform. Last but not least, as regards Steinhof: This is a problem in Vienna, which has nothing to do with the federal government itself. This has also been presented in the Committee. You should leave it there, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45891	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45912	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have just come to know quite clearly that there is a difference between market writers and the market economy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that if someone has done something to reduce petrol prices in Austria, it was our Minister for Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, not least with the spray price calculator. I believe that a lot of steps have been taken to achieve this, but everything is not possible, and we do not want to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would, however, like to continue with the topic of seed prices. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Chances to profile!]] [[Abg. Grosz: 1999!]] A future-oriented economy also includes quality of life and the conservation of the environment and resources. One of these quality of life measures in the future is the introduction of the E10, i.e. the 10-percent addition of bioethanol to petrol. Strangely, for some time there has been a curious campaign by some institutions against the introduction of the E10, including the argument that this could increase hunger in the world. This is probably a very bizarre argument, especially because we know that we are throwing away a third of the food we produce. Even more scurrily, this argument, if one knows that for the entire bioethanol production in Austria, we need only 36 percent of the area we are currently ordering to produce that third of the food that we then throw away. I think that those who make such campaigns really have to ask themselves: Where is the knowledge, where is your conscience and where is the overall view in this context? [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] In any case, we want to preserve the environment, reduce CO2 emissions and stop global warming with the introduction of the E10. And I personally am convinced that the Austrian economic engine is running better with E10, because it brings value added and jobs and it saves the environment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e45983	The next speaker was Mr Walser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46005	Mr Glaser, you know that we have a big problem with gas tourism from Italy and Germany. [[Abg. Grosz: You already know that in Slovenia the Sprit is cheaper by 20 cents!]] They do know that we are significantly lowering the amount of fuel prices in diesels than the Italians – 12 cents per litre, for example – or the Germans, that this is extremely heavy on our climate balance and that we will pay dearly for it. You know that, Mr. Glaser. So please also keep these facts ready and remember that in our cities today we have hardly any more fresh air at present, in a weather situation like now. In all major cities in Austria, the fine dust load is too high. [[Abg. Petzner: You are a burden party!]] Please bear in mind that in your actions! But I actually wanted to say something about the previous discussion, what is going on with the Blum bonus, and to add an aspect that you did not mention. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Egon Blum, first of all, has made the problem of apprentices, which we have at present, responsible for the fact that we have too few trainees. Please address this argument at last, Minister. It was the Styrian Industrial Association that pointed out that 70 percent of the apprentices in the first year of teaching lack the basics that the basic skills are not there that there is a lack of reading understanding that there is a lack of mathematics. [[Abg. Einwallner: Right!]] [[Abg. Waller: 70 percent?! That's not right now!]] It is the Chamber of Commerce which distributes bonuses in several countries. In Vorarlberg, for example, I read on the homepage that there is €1,000 for these aspects to be re-educated, that the apprentices should be re-educated in the basic skills to be taught at school. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: What are you saying to the teachers?]] So take it. Please note these facts! If we have 10,000 apprentices less than three years ago, this is the main problem. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] - I'm a teacher. I am fighting for a better school system, Mr Bartenstein. That's your party. It was the government that heard you responsible for having this situation now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They cannot make teachers in school responsible for not being able to train our young people accordingly. But some in your party, you obviously don't seem to belong to that, have recognized that. I thanked the new Education Spokesman of the ÖVP in Vorarlberg yesterday, who would like to deal with this fundamental reform with us, and who is responding to our proposals as far as expressis is concerned. He's doing it. Unfortunately, the head of state plays a back role today. If you address these fundamental problems, we will also be better in the field of apprenticeship training – and that would be a model. We have quite something to show in the field of education in Austria. I am counting the dual education, the higher and middle education schools I am counting on, but now we have to take the appropriate measures. And please do not regret the economy if at the same time you prevent these reforms which we so urgently need.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46138	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46159	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! In recent years, funding for enterprise-related labour market promotion has not been fully exhausted. €30 million in 2009 and €36 million in 2010. These funds, which have been similarly answered by the Federal Minister at the Budget Committee meeting, can now also be used for support measures. This is particularly interesting if support measures are put in place here for older workers and people with special needs, because it is simply important to place a sign that 50 is not part of the old iron in the working world and because it is also important to reduce early pensions and I-pensions and thus increase the actual retirement age. This also leads to a discharge of the budget approach to pensions. The second point I would like to put forward is economic promotion. Here there is an increase of almost 199 million € to 217 million € in 2010. This is an increase of 9.4 percent and this is significantly above the inflation rate, which is a real increase. I would particularly like to mention the contributions to Austria's advertising with €24 million and the dosage of film promotion with €4.6 million. With regard to thermal renovation – Mr Lugar is no longer here now – the Federal Minister of the Budget has already explained to the Committee on Budgets why it is just €100 million, because on the one hand the bill, the re-route profitability cannot be left in the form and on the other, because it is precisely what is being exploited from volume. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the budget is very good under the prevailing conditions and also in view of the tense situation. Of course, we need to consolidate state finances in the future in order to be able to deal with the tasks for the future. The debt brake is used to speed up and secure deficit reduction. On the one hand, this can be achieved through meaningful savings, without stifling the economy, and by eliminating the deficit in the tax system, because it is not to be seen, as the OECD reports, that the labour factor is taxed very high and Austria – so literally the OECD – is very reluctant in the taxation of assets. Mr Steindl, I am not entirely of your opinion that any percentage reduction in the tax rate also leads to more revenue, because the theory of the Laffer curve does not stand up to Popper's falsification postulate. [[Abg. Waller: Aha!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46196	Next speaker: Mr Einwallner. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46217	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister! High house! First I would like to welcome the district group Graz-Umgebung, my friends of the Young ÖVP. Greetings! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where are they?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Stadler and Grosz.]] You once again experience an exciting meeting on the budget, and I think you can say that for everyone in this house, for all the parties in this house: These are young people who work volunteering for this country, for politics, and I think it's important that they're here. And if they hear your contributions to the debate, they have to miss out on it, and that is a pity! - They're up there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Members of the BZÖ go to the centre of the hall and look at the gallery demonstrationally.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: There's no one in the gallery!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where are they?]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Winkt down! Here, did you see her? Yeah? Mr. Grosz? [[Abg. Grosz: They look very “youthful”! That's the boy ÖVP?]] [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] Now on the real topic: As an apprentice speaker, I am very happy about the qualified training in Austria, about the dual system. And I told you yesterday that we have a lot to do because every unemployed youth is too much for a unemployed youth. We have a lot to do, but we are on a good way with our minister because he works and produces not only hot air, as you do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Hakel – I have listened to her – is a very good approach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] I would also say that we must now come to work from the point of view, Minister. [[Abg. Grosz: This is something for the small art prize!]] That's where we'll have conversations. [[Abg. Markowitz: There's the FPÖ!]] If we are allowed, will we sit down and work out these issues, but what has come from the FPÖ? – A gentleman still dreams of flowers. The flower bonus, it made the ÖVP. That was right at the time, but now there are eight more funding tracks and now we don't need the Blum bonus anymore. That's it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In general, to the budget and as a conclusion to my speech message: I say to my group that there will be no new taxes with us, no more burden on the population, that is the point! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And if you are always talking about it – and even yesterday the SPÖ was a bit like that – about this rich tax, an extra burden on the population, then I really have to say to you: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner]] You don't want that! It's a political dual-track that you're driving. You're just talking about making a political point, but, in fact, you don't want to. You have to hold on to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46412	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46434	Mr President. Minister! Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the public transmission of this meeting on behalf of the Members who are not members of the BZÖ, I would like to apologize to the colleagues of the BZÖ. It's unbearable! Your conduct in these four days is embarrassing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make it clear that young people like Mr Petzner and Mr Grosz are going out this way, but there are the old Kasperls Westenthaler and Stadler who have nothing else in their mind. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I’m a g’scheiter!]] Instead of a political debate, they only make Radau here. [[Abg. Markowitz: Order call!]] Unfortunately, I have been able to and must observe this from my place for four days. [[Abg. Markowitz: He hasn't talked for four days?- Oh, my God!]] It is then especially when ladies are here at the speaker's desk, a picture that unfortunately falls back on all of us. [[Abg. Markowitz: Stay by the topic! Budget!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to have the public image of the policy of BZÖ Members! [[Congratulations and bravorage at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to talk about youth unemployment, but I think my colleague Schopf will address it. It is important to me in economically difficult times and in times when the social fabric is very tense, in which more and more people also find themselves in doubt with politics and democracy, that we, as the Austrian National Council, as a government, as MEPs, all those who are politically involved in this country, also treat the population and democracy with respect. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who is the one who...?]] This was written in the main book by the Altrabauken and the Jungrabauken of the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46584	Mr Weninger, for the use of the terms “Jungkasperl” and “Altkasperl” to the Members of the BZÖ, I give you a call for order. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also give you a call for an order, Mr Weninger, for the use of the terms “old and juniper trees” in the same direction. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Nothing used twice!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go home, color hair!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] [[Abg. Grosz: We are at least present!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Next speaker: Mr Schopf. 2 minutes speaking time. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] I would ask the honourable Members, in themselves rather the gentlemen of the BZÖ, to lower the noise level, so that the audience present only in a small number can follow the speeches of the speaker here in the room. Please, Mr Schopf.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46688	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words on Mr Lugar's comments. Unfortunately, he left the plenary room. Mr Lugar said that in recent months he has recognized that the real problem lies in the farms. It was the union. In two thirds of the firms where there were difficulties or where problems exist, the trade union is to blame. Mr Lugar, you really have no idea, and I think you haven't worked in a farm for a long time and don't know what's going on in the farms. Especially when you look more closely at the last months and the difficult phase of the crisis in many sectors, you see, especially at this time it was works councils, works councils with trade unions, it was all the social partners who, together with the Federal Government, did a really good, flexible and quite, really great work. And only that was the reason why it was possible that in the crisis in this Republic – and I am speaking here especially for large industries such as the metal industry – we really managed to get through properly in a relatively short time. There were many agreements, for example the models of short-time work in the enterprises, where work was carried out together with the social partners and, above all, with the works councils and works councils. And here I do not want to thank the relevant ministries, whether the Minister Mitterlehner, whether the Minister of Social Affairs was a dog'storfer, who has been under the arms of all these kinds. That is the real reason why we have dealt with this crisis so quickly, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me also to say a few sentences on the subject of apprentices and youth employment. My previous speaker, Mr Wenninger, also mentioned this briefly. The opinion is always expressed here, especially by representatives of the Freedom Party, that training in inter- and over-company teaching workshops is a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We currently have more than 6,000 young people in Austria looking for an apprenticeship. We have almost 700 young people in my federal state, in Upper Austria, who are looking for an apprenticeship. If the economy is unable to train all school leavers, then, I think, it is the damn commitment of politics and this federal government to give these young people a chance in intermediate and over-company teaching workshops. .................................................................................................. And that's right and that's good. I am looking for the Federal Government to continue to support such activities in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46731	The next speaker was Mr Preiner. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46752	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Tourism in Austria is still a success story, and we do not need to let anyone talk bad or small. Tourism has also found its corresponding teaching in the federal budget 2012, unfortunately with a small advertising drop. As we know, the promotion in the field of EHT has been shortened. However, at the Committee meeting, the Minister of Economic Affairs has noted that the changeover will also bring greater efficiency in the sense of a funding pyramid. The summer season has also brought more nights, and of course we all hope that we can take this swing even in the winter season. As a tourist country, Austria is still very well positioned internationally and also benefits from motivated employees, but also from the good infrastructure in an attractive landscape. I would also particularly like to mention the special kindness of the employees in the smaller and medium-sized accommodation companies. This special kindness is well known far beyond the borders of Austria and also brings a more guests to Austria year after year. Ladies and gentlemen. The growing importance of health tourism is essential and contributes to the positive economic development of our country. I refer here, for example, to the areas of wellness and thermal tourism. 24 percent of Austrian commercial beds in the three- to five-star categories fall within this area of health. In Burgenland, it is 51 percent. Especially the Burgenland is one of the Thermenländer and is working to intensify the special offer in the spa area even further and complete it with targeted packages. I'm just referring to the Martiniloben in the last two, three weeks. It was a full success, especially in the small innhouses, but also in the farms that have been very active in Martiniloben. We had a record record of visitors and nights. Finally, I would like to say that the tourism budget for 2012 will continue to be used in the same way as that for 2011.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46785	There are no more words available to me. The consultation on these topics is thus complete. [[13:18:09]] UG 25: Family and Youth
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46807	We are now entering into the negotiation of Division 25: Family and Youth. Mrs Kitzmüller. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46833	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Mr Minister, Madam Minister, who did you think of in this budget? – To the families, to the youth, to have the future She's hardly wasting a thought. And that's fatal. Yesterday, the Minister for Education told us that the budget is a distribution question. I totally agree with her. It is a matter of weighting and priorities. When I look at the distribution of this budget, I see that the family, the youth, have a very low priority here. And this, ladies and gentlemen, will fall on our heads. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This budget is particularly heavy on the tax-paying medium-sized countries. This budget is at the expense of the families, this budget, Mrs Minister, should take into account in itself, as you have said, the core of society, but this core part of society is simply overshadowed with burdens. We still had € 6.5 billion for the families in 2010, now there is €200 million less for this core piece, for these families we have to care for. In the estimate, only €6.3 billion is left for the families. The families do a very unthankful and ungrateful work for our homeland. The taxes, the pension contributions, the payments to the FLAF, which finally belongs to new legs, the contributions to the health insurance funds – all this pays the families. The families are the backbone and the core of society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And how are they thanked? – By not making inflation adjustments in all family benefits, we make the 13th. Family aid has been removed, which has never been adjusted and has ultimately come to an alibi payment of €100 per year per family. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But these burdens were not yet the end of the burdens that our families suffer. The mothers are disadvantaged in the pension system, especially if they care for their children themselves. In the same way, those women will: who take care of their own relatives, parents, grandparents, and parents-in-law. Your services won't thank you enough. Their answer was € 268 billion of public debt, together with debts from the outsourced companies, which are only a cosmetic. Your answer is simple, imaginative and especially extremely antifamily, because your answer is the maximum burden on families, the families who cannot defend themselves, who have never gone to the streets so as to express their anger and dissatisfaction. They're breaking the backbone of our future. That is why I make a further request. Resolution by Mr Kitzmüller and others on the introduction of a family-friendly tax system The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council, as soon as possible, a government document providing for a discharge of families by introducing a family-friendly tax system." [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are happy to provide you with a model with our family-friendly concept, Mr Minister, in order to get the best out for our families. These debts, Mr Minister, Mrs Minister, who makes this government, must be repaid sometime by anyone, including interest. It will be our children and our children who will meet this hard fate. Minister! Minister! We liberals won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e46970	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47093	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47114	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr Kitzmüller, I would just like to give you the opportunity that you have probably read the wrong paper and not the right one, and I just want to tell you that what you have said does not fit in at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Firstly, despite budget consolidation, there is no reduction in the family budget. Secondly, it is not in keeping with the fact that you are introducing a new tax model and creating claims, but on the other hand, we must say that our children are not taking on debts. So you can expect? [[Abg. Kitzmüller: I just explained that!]] Please learn to really expect, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you know, for example, that FLAF was only installed in 1954 and the first promotion at that time was the family allowance, then you have to look at what we have in support of families today so that family life is viable. I think you need to read and look at the list. It is not for the sake of the Federal Minister Mitterlehner that there is also a database here, where it shows what services come from. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You don't do anything good to families if you're always sorry. Work with you, agree to the budget! [[Abg. Kitzmüller: No, certainly not!]] That's how you help families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would just like to say that, not only to give the FPÖ the content of one along the way, but simply to record it again, also through the protocol. For the expansion of childcare for children under the age of three, with the focus on promoting the day mothers, €55 million will be made available to the countries, for the Free Kindergarten, half-days, over €70 million, for language early promotion over €5 million, for the further expansion of all day care over €80 million. This also benefits the communities so that there is an afternoon service. Of course, you also have to look at the childcare allowance. The short version is a success model, which is also about raising father participation. [[New call of the abg. Kitzmüller.]] – Don't always rain up! I think of course we also need to look at FLAF. The Federal Minister and other colleagues from my side will make it clear in their speeches that the Family Allowance Fund is the foundation for family support. Over FLAF alone, more than € 6.2 billion will be distributed, around €708 million more than five years ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we know that this is the service providers' contributions, but we also know that FLAF, the family compensation fund, is the hub for family policy in Austria. Of course, there is also the responsibility here to create a stronger focus on the core tasks, and I think that Dr Reinhold Mitterlehner has really made a good proposal to the Budget Committee. My time has been somewhat shortened this time, yet it is important to tell me – as background information; you often don't know that –: €3.45 billion will be paid to family allowances, €1.8 billion in childcare and €383 million, for example travel aid, free travel for students and so on. In summary, I can only say: We know from the ÖVP with our Minister of Finance, with our Federal Minister, but also in the government with the SPÖ that stable finances mean a secure future and thus, as I said, make family viable.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47207	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47228	Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I can't hear the empty family-political words that you regularly give of yourself here on such occasions, and I assume that it's not just me, but it's all about all the listeners for whom the question of family policy is about daily survival. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you, Mrs Kitzmüller, say – and I quote now – families are the core and backbone of our society and how are they thanked, then we could start something with that, I would just say, start in your own party. If you read in the issue of ‘NEWS’ published yesterday that one of your colleagues, Mr. Strutz, has Zig thousands of euros in debt to his four children – not the first time, but also two years ago – I wonder how Mr. Strutz thanks the families and, above all, his own family, that family policy is so important. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Start where you can really move! And that might be the case with my own colleagues who live family policy completely different from what you represent here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Mrs Steibl, if you say here that we are doing so much for the families – that is what you say regularly – and this is spent on them, then we do not even know since the study of the IHS on the FLAF, not only since reports by the Court of Auditors, that the many expenses that are incurred for families – that is undisputed in numbers – do not arrive where they are needed. We must finally come to a differentiated discussion of family policy, and that means concretely creating a family policy that includes all families, and not just those that represent your clientele, which means that we are creating a family policy that is socially just, and that means that we are making a transparent family policy. What do I mean by that? – There are many family benefits, in the federal states, in the municipalities and at the federal level. However, no man – and not you, Mr Minister, even you, Mrs Minister – has an overview of where a family can get something, and not the family at all. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true!]] And this is not worthy of an age in which we have technological possibilities. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] The second is that you, Mrs. Minister, because you are addressing me specifically – this is just the case – to present a family budget that does not deserve the name “social justice”. [[new interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] What do I mean by “social justice ”? – This means that taxes will not be introduced – admittedly already in 2008, but that will continue now – a so-called family relief package that benefits only certain families, namely the well and better-earned families, while other families do not benefit from it. It's not socially fair. It is not socially fair if not all families are covered by family policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This also means that all forms are supported and not only your – as you understand it – healthy father-mother-child family, but separate living families, same-sex families, families with migration backgrounds, families with a single parent and much more. All of this can't be found in your family budget. That means, what must happen? – We need to transform our family policy system very clearly. Not only do I and that not only say that to my colleagues of the Greens, but many experts have said so for years. Family benefits must move from cash to services and benefits in kind. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] This means, Mr Amon, investing in education which is socially just and beneficial to all. Education means kindergartens, crib courts expand, legal claims on places for all children... [[Abg. Amon: There is the abstinence!]] You know very well that there is a problem with the admissibility that no one knows how to understand this abstinence. You also need places to pay for in order to make it removable at all. And you know how many places are missing. If you don't know, ask your minister, because he knows that. [[Abg. Einwallner: Yes, especially in Vienna!]] He has already made it quite clear to us in the Committee on Budgets that we have missed the Barcelona target far and that we will miss it further because we are far from going where we should go. It needs places, kindergartens, afternoon care places, it needs services for parents, and it doesn't just need to be shaved out over the comb money, of which no person knows who will benefit them and who will help them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47355	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47376	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The family chapter offers us a good opportunity to discuss the needs and wishes of children and young people in the budget debate on the situation of families in Austria. Mr. Federal Minister, you told us at the beginning of the year that you will make these topics the main issue, and I think that is important and necessary after the departure of Mrs. State Secretary, because I... [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: That was not me, that was the Vice Chancellor!]] Okay, you're right, but you're the competent person now, and I'd ask you, because you're a co-deputy of Mr. Vice-Chancellor, that this really is the main issue, even if it's Mr. Vice-Chancellor's, because I really think that in family policy – Mrs. Musiol, I think we've been working on the same issues in the preparation today – it's the time that we're making an analysis and holding a state of state once to complete the concepts and projects we're planning for families, children and young people, and then to bring them together. Personally, I am really convinced that in the future we will no longer be allowed to take individual measures, but that there will have to be a linked network of family policy services and family, youth and child-political projects. Mr Federal Minister, you said in a question answer that the technical basis for a database of family policy services is complete; it is still being fed. When will we be able to expect it? A further basis for new forms of support policy is also provided by the FLAF's analysis report. I think it is an opportunity to extract areas as you have announced, Mr Federal Minister, who is the other possibility, just as State Secretary of State has proposed to discuss new revenue, to relieve labour, to relieve salaries, for example, on a value-added levy. A yes to your statement, Mr. Federal Minister, to a pool of competence, to more transparency and control possibilities. We have started many fields, which are open but very closely linked, from the protection of children and young people, also in connection with the protection of children, which we discussed on Tuesday, to the accompanying measures that I think parents really need, accompanying parents' support when it comes to providing assistance. So we have many good ideas, many good ideas from colleagues. Full power ahead for the Austrian families, children and young people!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47411	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47434	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! According to a study conducted by ÖIF, about 70 percent of children live in families, where both parents are present, with communities growing more strongly than marriages – and that must be said – the proportion of single parents remains fairly constant with about 17 percent, and patchwork families are represented with about 10 percent in Austria. This shows us that families are spreading in their diversity, families are present in their diversity, and that we must do everything we can to strengthen families, that any kind of family is quiet and viable, because it is ultimately about creating a safe environment for children, an environment in which children can really develop well. The family budget, which is now available, Mr. Federal Minister, remains constant, but one has to say again and again that there have been painful cuts in family benefits that continue to follow today in the previous year. So you continue a budget, there are no special priorities. They continue to provide important services, such as child care. They have implemented an important performance – and I am in favour of that – with this new start-up funding for the expansion of childcare places for children under the age of three, which we have called for very often and very urgently. It is also a performance that is very, very important for the parents as well as for their financial situation. However, I do not see child care money as much as a service to the better compatibility of work and family, but as an income-independent family benefit. That is why we will now again make a request for the abolition of the limit of merit, because the limit of merit is contrary to the freedom of choice. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If colleague Ridi Steibl says that the short version is a success model, I cannot agree with that. The success models – the statistics and your answers show it quite clearly – are the long-term forms, the 30+6 and 20+4 forms, which are adopted by more than three quarters of the parents, while the short variants are more negligible. In the short variants – that is true – there is more father participation. Therefore, I think you should really ask, just what the child care allowance is going on: Wouldn't it be better to abolish the limit of commitment, to provide fewer forms, to require less administration – and the money is directly where families need it? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another central issue – it has already been discussed by the previous speakers and the Committee – is the fund of benefits for families, FLAF. Here, I think, it is absolutely a priority to ensure this with benefits that are important for people, for families, on the one hand, through a cost-effectiveness in revenue, as far as the communities and the countries are concerned. Here, I believe, it is not honest and not legitimate for the countries and communities to pay, but then recover a part of the financial compensation. On the other hand, I also believe – and this has been a demand from us for a very long time – that family-related services should come from FLAF. I've had the experience myself that you like to pack everything into the FLAF, where you don't know where to do things. There are many things, from pension payments to maintenance advances. In a next step, it would be necessary to decompose FLAF and make it a strong family performance centre. I am also disturbed by the term “family compensation fund”, which sounds so negative. We need a service center for the families where benefits are secured, where they are paid out. This should also be a strong representation and a strong lobby for the families. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to act quickly, not only to present the study and to state a time period which is not fixed, but to act quickly, because we need the money where everything becomes more expensive, where families are really confined, and we do not need it in an administration that ultimately costs very much. Today my name colleague Peter Haubner said we need a tax brake. I can only underline that. We need a control brake for the families. The families pay a lot of taxes, and here, I think, the system is also to be explored, Mrs Federal Minister. It is no longer comprehensible, see single-earner deposits, free amounts and so on. I am also thinking of the absurd discussion that is now being held about the removal of child care costs. One says, no, grandparents who have only eight hours of education are not suitable for their family not to write off child care costs. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: This is a misconception!]] – They say: Failure to make a decision. But well, if I'm in Lower Austria right now, and this independent financial senate says so, what am I doing? There's nothing I can do when I go and say, Failure to make a decision! – I can’t do anything here in the end. Therefore, it would be more honest and better to provide an annual allowance per child in the tax system, and this annual allowance per child can benefit anyone who has children. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from the BZÖ have a model here within the framework of our flat-tax tax model: 9 000 € per year and child can be used to equal parts of father and mother. A third point that I would like to mention here is – and the Minister knows my demands in this regard – that we are still waiting for the Federal Child and Youth Aid Act. We have already discussed this in the Committee. The children have a right to protection and care, especially if they are in an environment where their well-being is at risk or where parents are overwhelmed. You have said two countries are still blocking and you hope that the breakthrough will take place in autumn. – Autumn will soon be over, it’s actually the Advent, but maybe you can tell us something more precise here. It is incomprehensible in this context to me that you are not doing anything at all in the field of parenting. The funds have remained the same for years. Here too, one could set a priority and invest more to give this signal that, in view of the fact that many parents today are overwhelmed that they really need education, that they also need a craftsmanship for the education of their children, can really do a lot more. [[Abg. Marek: There are precise offers!]] Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! If as a government you want family to continue to be a success model – and that is what it is, according to all the surveys; the young people want all the family and children, but in reality, unfortunately, it often looks different – then it is important that you quickly start the refurbishment of FLAF and that this is a sensible rehabilitation. We are happy to support you when something good comes out that what you have announced is actually implemented that a service center is made out of it. But we will certainly not support you when it comes to cuts in benefits for the families that they urgently need and which are also to arrive where they should be, namely with the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47513	Next speaker: Mrs Fuhrmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47534	Mrs Kitzmüller said at the beginning of the debate that youth is of little importance. I would like to disagree very strongly and, in my statement, to argue briefly, why this is not the case. First: The youth organisations have a budget of more than one million available in the annual accounts. In other words, the youth organisations are given sufficient budgetary resources in Austria, because their work is also important to us and because we recognize the work of the related youth organisations. And we also want to express this appreciation in the budget. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] And the second point: When it comes to young people in the family, I tell you, the most important measure we launched a few days ago – and you have the opportunity to support it here in Parliament – is the generation scan, the generation check of all the laws that we are expressing, even if we are discussing youth in the family chapter today, that youth is a cross-cutting matter. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] All laws, whether they concern economic policy, pension policy, education policy, are always concerned: What will be sustainable for the younger generation, what will remain for the children? And that is what we must put ourselves in politics. I have the impression that many representatives here in the House do not. It's not just a shame, it's not responsible. I would just like to mention a few points where I believe that these are important measures for the boys. For example, in the field of education, these are the upgrading of primary schools and ensuring gymnasia – an important and necessary decision – but also, presented by Minister Mitterlehner together with Minister Hundstorfer, the Youth Coach and the Youth Foundation, which are about to put in place measures to reduce the school dropout rate, or, just recently, presented the daughterle model in terms of more resources for study advice and, last but not least, the debt brake, their anchoring in the Constitution, which should ensure that we do not spend more money than we have. This budget calls for far-sightedness. These have been assured by the members of the government. And now it is about the opposition knowing this far-sighted view. You agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47581	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47604	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I hear your words well, I alone lack faith! Mrs Fuhrmann leaves the plenary as soon as she has finished speaking. I take note of that. A few days ago I also discussed very intensively with Mr Sozialminister Hundstorfer about the youth problem we consider to be. We've also exchanged with each other. That's not how we see that the world is so healthy. They always say, of course, that not everything is good, but it's about recognizing data and facts, and a few months ago, it was pretended that youth unemployment in Austria was so low. I would like to inform you that we believe that the figures and data you always present to us do not actually correspond to reality. They speak of about 4 percent youth unemployment in Austria. So, in the case of young people reported unemployed in about 40 000 young people on the one hand and some 25 000 to 30 000 young people who are trained in the trans-company training centres – that is, we admit, that is not a topic at all – or are hidden in other AMS courses, we are at a rate of 12.13 percent youth unemployment. And with that, we are no longer so far away from the negative examples in Europe. I would like to give you a few examples: Italy 30 percent, Slovenia 15 percent, Hungary 25 percent. In Spain, even every other youth is out of work. What we demand – and we have been demanding and drumming for months now – is a very simple thing. Here, on the one hand, the economy is required. There are no skilled workers. On the other hand, there are 65 000 to 70 000 unemployed or partially trained young people, I have just mentioned the figures to you. In my opinion, we believe that the economy must work more closely with the AMS and with the training centres. There are initiatives – and we recognise that, that's not a subject either – but I think that much more interconnecting needs to take place here, so that at least a large part of these young people – I mention it again: 65 000 to 70 000 young people – trained as skilled workers – are trained so that the economy can participate by these young people, by the very well-trained - hopefully in the future - young people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The FPÖ has been calling for the reintroduction of the Blum bonus for years – I know you are not our opinion. We can talk about the fact that the Blum bonus – I mentioned earlier – may be modified, changed, otherwise put on. I recommend that you also have intensive discussions with Mr Blum. [[Abg. Riepl: You have already said that before today!]] – Well, I sure said that. But you have to repeat it more often, so that it may even simmer into your consciousness sometime. Please do this once again! We demand equality between pupils and students. I would personally expect much more initiative from social democracy. How can it be that students and students benefit from various advantages, but not apprentices? [[Abg. Riepl: For example? An example!]] Is this the teaching profession and the teaching of inferior? - Question mark. It's a rhetorical question. Obviously, for you as Social Democrats. That's not our view. [[Abg. Riepl: For inequality you say an example!]] We have often called for the acquisition of boarding costs by the public authorities, because the costs are often a problem for apprentices. And we also say stone and clear – and with this I am now bringing a current campaign of the Freedom Youth ring here to the plenary: Our youth's money! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are not interested in transferring Aber thousands of euros, millions, billions of euros somewhere, while our youth often stays on the track. So long speech short sense: We need a well-trained, powerful, diligent, motivated youth in our country. And we ask you to do everything that supports these things in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47679	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47701	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! The family budget is almost unchanged. The only thing that has changed is that the costs of child care expenditure have increased. The budget is divided into family policies and youth policies. In the context of the further implementation of children's rights, I would like to see a pass on child-friendly measures inside that might also be possible. Unlike Mr Fuhrmann, I would like to say to the generation scan: It's a step in the right direction, but you can't be satisfied with it for a long time. It was announced that this is such a great success, but: The first time we didn't find the law, because it was then hidden somewhere at the Pyhrn motorway. But it was still somewhere inside that there was a right of participation. The Krux in history was that it would have been planned to anchor it in a law that was at 31. ==References====External links== So you wouldn't have really looked into the future either. And now, where it is in the Federal Budget Act, there is a new draft. Although I no longer know why it is called "generation Scan", it is only within that that the impact on children and young people is to be taken into account. From participation, from cooperation is only more contained in the explanations. But each one of us knows that you can't call on the explanations. [[Abg. Steibl: But that was desired from you! The SPÖ has crossed over there! You have to say that too! So you have to know what you're talking about!]] And I'm sorry about that. I would rather call it a small blend grenades to be able to sell slightly positive. But this is not the way in which we imagine the participation of young people by social democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Wouldn't you have squatted around all this thing!]] Because it can't be that just on the front page of every law is the passus: “Effects on children and young people” are usually called “no”. – This is not the goal of common participation. We wish ourselves and we would like real participation for children and young people, also in the sense of the budget. This also includes the fact that, for example, the children's and youth prosecutors, who are currently country-related, need finally federal competence, a non-profit-making federal competence. There is a child and youth lawyer of the federal government, which is true, but it is not wise and therefore cannot act in the sense of the children. We Social Democrats do not want small mogel packs. We would like to live real participation. And so that we also work in the future, it is still necessary that we introduce the millionaire tax, because then we also have more money for our youth. [[Abg. Steibl: Oh, that! That's an old hat!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47773	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill's next speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47794	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let us remain on the subject of justice – thank you very much, Mrs Lueger, for this transfer – because justice is the very theme that is the most critical of all, both youth-political and child-political: What is fair for the future of young people and children? What does justice mean in the current school and education system? What does justice mean in the education system, in the pension system? – Therefore, justice is not just a keyword in youth policy, but it is extremely serious to take. And I would also ask the Minister for Youth Mitterlhner to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since youth policy is a cross-sectional matter, it is, of course, difficult for a minister – and I am not willing to admit that – to decide or discuss with all the youth-politically relevant areas in a truly far-reaching and inter-ministerial manner. But fact is, as a youth minister, one also has a focus on young people and on their concerns in the Austrian society from 0 to 18 years or from zero to 30 years. And I already have a problem with the youth budget: What is youth? And also: What is youth for the youth minister and for the family minister? Then: In the Federal Youth Office and in all youth organisations, young people up to 30 years of age are considered to be young people. In criminal law it looks quite different – with mouths and mouths and so on and so on. They know the difficulty of the legal situation as regards young people. There is also the problem of the so-called generation scan. If, now, a law is to be passed here, the future laws should be examined as to whether and to what extent generations may have to pay more in the future, possibly to be pitied, perhaps left outside, then the question must already be asked: What's generation? What is family? What is youth? – To finally put the definitions on the table would be really appropriate and at the time, because the consent to a law needs definitions in the background, and they are not even in your explanations. To the generation scan: It is not a talk of a child- and youth-enhancement test that would really examine the impact of the laws on children and young people in the future, but the talk is about possible effects on generations. I don't think of the word "generational scan" at all, because it doesn't say anything, nor does it matter. It is essential to change to “child and youth impact assessment”, which is carried out together with the Federal Youth Office. What I know is that the Federal Youth Office is now being used to develop definitions and concepts. Yeah, that's happening, but it's too late. The Bun- As a community of interest groups, de jugendrepresentation has the right to be involved in the legislative process in order to discuss together here. I am therefore on another important point: The Federal Youth Office is, after all, the legally established representation of interests not only of all young people, but also of all children. ==References== November, i.e. Sunday, the International Day of Children's Rights. Children's rights have been in the constitutional rank since February. Every year, children's rights are to be raised in the constitutional order in order to really protect, accompany and care for children. Today, exactly the same demands are made as in the years before children's rights were raised in the constitutional rank, namely to finally live up to children's rights. Filling children's rights with life is the task that the youth and family ministry should also undertake. The question of competence does not arise at all, because from my point of view the Ministry of Youth is quite clearly responsible for it. There is a division for children's rights and youth welfare, and it should also be filled with life. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Reasons for this: The children's rights in the federal constitution must be fulfilled with life. It needs accompaniment, especially in the course of the terrible stories about child abuse, violence against children of sexual, physical and psychological nature, the implementation of children's rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47885	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47977	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e47998	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I share the opinion already expressed by several speakers that we have not yet achieved our desired goals in the family sector, but have used the opportunities given due to the budgetary and economic development. It has also been mentioned that since April I have been solely responsible for this area. I must say that I am trying, on the basis of good preparatory work, to address, in particular, systematically the problems that arise, in particular with regard to the family compensation fund. It has been mentioned several times – also by Mrs Haubner, for example – that the 2012 budget estimate essentially continues what was decided in 2011 as a basis. That is also good, because in the end we have seen that in the crisis the families are the first to be affected in society and are therefore particularly disadvantaged. That is why we have decided on an economic package which has provided for significant increases in the family sector. A part of this package – not of the economic package, but very pay-intensive – was the 13. Family aid, which has cost more than €250 million. We have seen that, on this basis, we would continue to act in the following years, we would have a financing problem. It is precisely this financing problem. Mrs. Kitzmüller, you say our children and children have to repay everything we do or don't do with interest rates and interest rates. That's right. [[Abg. Wöginger: (in the direction of the Abg. Kitzmüller) Then withdraw the request!]] If we hadn't done anything last year, we'd have 4 billion euros of over-indebtedness in the reserve fund, in the family tax compensation fund in 2016. Since we do not want to let our children pay back, we have launched countermeasures that were painful, and thus the over-indebtedness will amount to € 2 billion. I see that – at least this one was felt so in the previous year – as painful, but as a right action that is alternatively non-existent. A problem with FLAF is that on the one hand, the economy brings revenue. It is therefore not quite right that, as someone meant, the families pay for it. This is a dispute between SPÖ and ÖVP, I know. Who really pays? In fact, from the method of payment it is a contribution, 4.5 percent paid by the service providers. It was about wage increases at the time, yes or no, and it was decided to create this fund. [[Abg. Krainer: Net wage loss!]] – Net wage reduction. But I do not want to address this ideological question at all. Now the procedure is just like that, and now we have exactly this problem that we have rehabilitated FLAF if the economy does not agree with what we have decided to do. Since he is Maastricht-relevant, we have these problems. So we started the right renovation, but on the other hand we also saw that we are still above the figures of the high economy. The economic development this year has been very helpful in the whole further process. With the revenue at the FLAF, we are more than €100 million above the estimate, in the positive. The refurbishment of the FLAF is not only a reduction in performance, but also a result of the fact that we have more revenue in the high economy. But it is now coming – this has been addressed, and that is why I meant that I would like to address the problems systematically – to carry out the study. We looked at where the FLAF services are going. It is right to have too little money at our disposal for family allowances in the direct sense that the discharge is intended to bring. In 1990, we had more than 90 percent of the FLAF available for family allowances, and in 2010 and 2011 we have around 50 percent. This does not mean that the other benefits are not directly or indirectly relevant to families, but they are not exactly what is in the law. That's why, Mrs Haubner, I don't think we should change the concept either. The aim is to compensate for the burden, the balance between those who do not have children, and the families. Thus, the concept of where we should focus is already indicated. What does that mean? – This means that if we want to increase family allowances, we have to have other benefits financed by others. I do not understand, for example, that we have to pay all the maintenance advances that cannot be brought in. Better entry-level activities could be put in place. But of course this is also economic-dependent, which is why many are pressing ahead. Next point: Pension area. Why should we pay 75, now 72 percent from FLAF? By 2008, the ratio was 50 : 50. We have to start there, and I believe that this study was very essential in order to be able to reorientate the performance. To be honest, ladies and gentlemen, I do not fully understand that pensioners are required to cover the expenses incurred and caused by inflation, while there is no such thing as that for families that are even more important for further development. I see this as an starting point for the future that we urgently need to see. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, another essential point is the compatibility of family and profession. I believe that the child-money variants we now have have helped to improve family life, and in particular help the parents to exercise responsibility. The short variants you addressed were successful, with more than 30 percent father participation in a variant. Since we now also have income-dependent variants, there are of course additional costs in 2012. As far as the limit is concerned, I would like us to have enough money to discuss increases or even withdrawals. The question is what it looks like to finance. Secondly, and I believe that this has proved very well, is also included in the budget – the €70 million that we pay for every five years as a contribution to equal opportunities, which reaches the mandatory kindergarten, is a measure where we should consider whether we could not go further, because there is an inclusive, also socialising effect in the end effect in the sense of team development. This is also an educational contribution towards more equal opportunities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, it is still to be said that we have continued child care facilities. You've done it as if it were natural anyway. I can remember, it's been criticized that we don't have any money. The Minister of Finance has provided this as well as a follow-up financing. So we have a little more available than the last one. Mrs Musiol – because you have mentioned this – I think that if we reached 28 percent of the 33 percent in 2014, then – we have already argued in committee – the division that is bad, that is not really appropriate, then we have almost reached the goal. Of course, demand will develop on the basis of the offer. I think this is a very good measure, even if we look at demographic development. I now come to the area of youth, which has always been criticized in terms of positioning. I think a lot has happened in this context. The corresponding scanning for young people and children has already been addressed. I would also like to include the families, but unfortunately this has not succeeded because it would result in a rethinking. So far, in every ministry, it has simply been decided what you have believed is right, without considering and considering the impact on youth and, above all, on the families. An example: Each child must have his own seat. – Beautiful, transport and safety, but with regard to funding for the families a huge problem, because you would already need two cars for several children. This means that I would like to see more in this area. We are working on continuing to do so in this form. I think it's important that thinking is different. As far as youth opportunities are concerned, I think it is right that we need to better match supply and demand in terms of training. That is why we are now reforming the Vocational Training Act to develop a coaching and similar models so that resources, i.e. supply and demand, are better coordinated and we are also developing better in international comparison. Although we have very few competences in the youth sector, we will continue and complete the youth strategy. By the way – because someone asked for it, I come back shortly after that – the database in the area of the family is ready and is already used by experts. We will also take over the taxation of services, the coordination of services with the federal states. Of course you are right, we need to coordinate this with the ministries – the Court of Auditors has also criticised the fact that you work in different places – and on the other hand also with the countries that provide €80 million for the FLAF with over €6 billion. But if you are better coordinated, you have more transparency, more clarity. You, Mrs. Haubner, have addressed the Federal Children's and Youth Aid Act. You're right, I would have liked to have done it, but we shouldn't have been fighting over seasons now. Autumn, Advent? Autumn lasts until the 21st century. December, isn't it? [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, of course!]] Yes. And we don't have any snow either. So I would say, in view of that, that I would still be formally correct and within the framework. But I'll give you one right: I am also not pleased that the abuses are constantly on the rise and we have no way of resisting them. Therefore, the federal states – and hopefully someone from the two affected states – should really raise their concerns about the principle. We have already increased funding, and this should be resolved at the latest in terms of financial compensation. I'm closing. We will involve the federal youth organisations – and we were addressed in the Committee – in the generation scan in the respective implementation steps. We have also been able to ensure that all 35 federal youth organisations have a financial security. We have clarified the basic work and the topics for the next three years, so that continuity is there. In particular, we will finance three main areas of funding: Vocational orientation – repeatedly addressed – is addressed in a large survey on Monday; a huge problem, a difficult, very sensitive problem – and participation and different new forms of participation in politics as a whole. I believe that this is an important issue for society, because, of course, it has been mentioned several times, who is the basis for the future of our entire system. All in all, I believe and conclude that in a really difficult time we have decided on the right course of action that we will continue to intensify there and there, of course together with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48082	Next speaker: Mrs Marek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48104	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The compatibility of family and profession – the Federal Minister has just mentioned this – for mothers and fathers is a central challenge. I am pleased that there are very important priorities in this context. It is, of course, about the massive extension of child care, and the Federal Minister has also mentioned this. For years, money has really been taken over and invested. That is why, Mrs Musiol, I think, honestly, that this permanent disease of the Greens and this refusal of reality of the Greens is now unbearable. In 2014 – the Federal Minister has mentioned it – we are 28 percent with the under-age. [[Abg. May. Musiol: 2010 should reach 33 percent!]] It was 14 percent five years ago, now we are 19 percent. So if that's not a good, not a successful way, I don't know. This is your permanent infirmity and refusal of reality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're on the right track. We are also on the road with the federal uniform education plan for the five-year-olds towards federal uniform standards. The path is still far, but we are going in the right direction, ladies and gentlemen! It is also important to bring the farms into the boat. In this sense, very good or numerous measures have been achieved. For example, about the road show, the Federal Minister – I can congratulate him – took a great step by driving to the federal states in order to get the companies into the boat with best practice models. It is essential to promote awareness in companies, because if the companies are not in the boat, it is very difficult to continue. The fact is, family-friendly measures in the companies bring something to the companies themselves. They may be more successful because those companies that take such measures have fewer sick days, have a lower fluctuation, have a higher return rate after the karenz. The audit family & profession is starting here, a very proven instrument, which has now created more than 200 companies, which has been very successful. And I would also like to address the audit family-friendly community, ladies and gentlemen, because now more than 200 communities – 220 in concrete terms – are subject to this audit by about 10 percent of all communities. These are very successful, and I would therefore like to thank the Austrian Municipal Association, the mayors and all those involved. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48146	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48168	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to dedicate myself to the family and partner advisory services today in particular. According to the Homepage of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family and Youth, there are over 390 family and partner advisory services of various support organisations, which are funded from the budget. 11 million € are available for this purpose. At the same time, there are 43 women's advisory services which are funded by the BKA from the women's section. In the course of the budget consultation, I have read through your answer to the question, in which you comment on the family advisory services, which are also listed in them. I've counted them through and come on 325. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Crazy!]] The difference is 65 if you assume 390 as a fixed number, as well as that on your homepage. Now I would have liked to know from you how many family and partner consulting agencies are actually there. In any case, there are far too many, as these documents show, and that is why, in the sense of administrative simplification, we have made a request to merge these family and women's advisory services into centres of competence and also to carry out a pilot project in a federal country, because this is beneficial for administrative reasons and, above all, for those seeking assistance, because they are better able to help and quickly come to an aid if they are in an emergency situation and need this assistance, ladies and gentlemen! [[OBJECTIVES]] Our family spokesperson Ursula Haubner has already addressed the problem of the abmissability of child care costs. This has now been considered illegal by the independent financial Senate. My question, which you also did not answer: Will you go to the Administrative Court? Will you fight this finding, this judgment of the Independent Financial Senate? What will that look like? Many families are because there is no such offer now that it is not recognised to get into a tax dead end and need support, they need the deductibility of child care costs. I'm still missing your answer. I would also like to ask you once again to take a position on the abolition of the limit of merit. I have not fully followed your remarks in this regard. The five variants of the childcare allowance create an administrative burden of € 10 million. This is the amount available to the Minister of Women for her entire department. This relationship should be seen before. € 10 million for the administrative burden on child care: €10 million for the women's minister for the women's resort! This could very well be saved, namely that the abolition of the limit of merit would lead to savings in the administrative sector. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If one did not have to calculate and convert constantly, a lot of work and high costs would be lost. We can rightfully claim that “genuine paid!” for an inflated administration with € 10 million administrative costs for child care! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48220	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48252	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The compatibility of work and family is always at my heart and is still in my heart. If we look at the 2011 Gender Index, we can see that in terms of childcare facilities has done a lot over the last ten years, a lot of things have been done when looking at the three- to six-year-olds' care rate. The fact that we, as a federal government, have continued to finance the start-up – i.e. the start-up funding for zero to three years in order to reach, among other things, the Barcelona target – was that we have continued the Article 15a contracts, I believe, very important, and that is why we have always fought for them. That it could go even faster, Mrs. Musiol, is undisputed, and that it may also be “cheapier” – under quotation marks – more cost-effective for families or for women, is also obvious, because it is very different in the federal states, what it costs and whether it is possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol]] And it also depends on where you live: In agglomeration centres it is not so difficult to find a care offer, in rural areas it becomes increasingly difficult. I also asked you, Mr Federal Minister, how you say that the so-called Papa month is also introduced in the private sector. You said you should talk about it, you can talk about it. . I believe that this is a very important measure to strengthen fatherhood participation in child rearing, and you and also the Minister of Finance have recognised in your budget speeches that father participation is a common concern of this federal government. It became already mentioned that 31 percent increase in income dependent childcare is something very commendable. In this sense one should continue. Therefore, the papal month at all levels would also be a necessary and important measure. I would like to congratulate you, Mr Minister, on this study that you commissioned – on Monday there is the idea – because violence in the family, violence in the social environment is a big problem and causes a lot of suffering, also many dependencies. If we come to terms with this phenomenon, where, above all, women, where most of all children are victims, are also victims, if we can also have preventive action here, so that less happens in the family – where the woman, where the child should feel most secure – then, I believe, we have achieved much. In this sense, I hope that it will be a good survey and that the result will also be good accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48306	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48327	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The new magic word is obviously a debt brake. The government is now facing a million-dollar question and wants to save €2 billion. This means more taxes and less expenditure. With regard to less expenditure, we have a proposal where we can save, namely family aid, which flows abroad. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] According to the budget, €3 billion is paid in family aid, and also for children living in the EU/EEA region whose parents work in Austria, the Austrian family aid must be paid without taking into account the actual cost of living abroad. Nearly 5,000 foreign family aid beneficiaries who do not reside in Austria have funds in three-digit millions. An example: A father from Slovakia works in Austria; the children and his family live in Slovakia. He is therefore paid the family allowance issued in Slovakia. It would be useful to adjust the payment from Austria at least to the level of the cost of living of the country there! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thus, it would be socially justified to adapt family aid to actual cost of living and would, on the other hand, allow savings of more than €10 million a year. [[Abg. Riepl: What if a child lives there and one there?]] I would like to make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thanks a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48391	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48452	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48474	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Raising children is a challenge for fathers and mothers. The demands on families have developed and changed greatly through changes in working life and also in society. In Austria, support for the families is credited, and so it is also invested in the families. We are in the forefront of aid to families in international comparison. It has already been mentioned today: In 2012, €6,331 billion of expenditure is budgeted in the Family Tax Adjustment Fund, with revenue expected to be €6,239 billion. The Federal Minister pointed out that the consolidation steps that had to be taken in the family compensation fund were painful, but without these measures the debts of the family compensation fund would have exploded, and he also said that further FLAF reforms are absolutely necessary. There will be no way by, this also confirms the IHS study, which shows an annual savings potential of around €750 million. They are included in the family compensation fund, which is not all family-relevant, which may belong to other resorts or are at least overlaps. I would like to point out here that, for example, in the case of the Mother-Child Pass, in the studies that have been carried out at €35.5 million in the Family Compensation Fund, of course, there is also the health relevance. Of course, contributions to student accident insurance with € 4.5 million have a social relevance, and it has to be questioned how far funding can change in the future. Family policy benefits are important, are also supported accordingly and sometimes considered to be self-evident. Therefore, I would like to mention here the successful schoolbook action by which parents have been completely relieved since 2010 – no restraint; budgeted at € 111.7 million in the Federal estimates. I also wish the Federal Minister much success in rehabilitating the FLAF.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48514	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48535	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know how you're doing, but I'm missing someone on the government bank today when I look around like that. Someone's missing – guess who. Mr. Ewald Stadler, maybe you can help me, you always know each other. There is a lack of the highly praised, announced, celebrated, admirable Secretary of State Verena Remler, the Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, with the shortest term of not even five months. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Where's Mrs. Remler today? – At the place dear greetings home and the message to the taxpayers, to the families that this lady did not even five months' term of office cost the taxpayers who cost families 73 500 €. [[Abg. Steibl: Excuse me, this is a groundless naughtiness what you're doing! Don't you have any manners at all?]] That's your family policy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Don't you have any manners at all?]] 73 500 € – 14 700 € per month salary at zero performance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Your excitement shows only the bad conscience you have in connection with this personnel decision, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. Your motto is yes, performance must pay off – you say it at every point – and on the basis of this motto of the People's Party, which she does not keep herself, we will now once again highlight the achievements of this woman Remler and the cost factor. [[Abg. Head: Where has your performance been so far?]] Let's see what Mrs. Remler did in her nearly five months – she was exactly 26 years old. ==References== April 2011, since she has already been sawn off again, in office – as a family state secretary, who was specially used for the families, because Mr Mitterlehner obviously saw the families only as an economic, as a cost factor and nothing else. But let's start with what advance locust berries it started in office with. Mr. Federal Partyobmann – Ex-BundesPartei Obmann – Pröll was elected on 15 July. In November, Mrs Remler declared that she was “a strong voice for Austria’s families”. She was his first choice, he explained, Mr. Ex-Bundespartiteobmann Pröll. By one vote, she has been nominated by the entire ÖVP Party Board, that is, all of you bear the responsibility for this personnel decision. What did the Minister Mitterlehner say about Mrs Remler on 12 February? - No. No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. – Mrs Remler could “refer to both practical and political experience from her work”, and this predestined her “for a citizen-oriented orientation of family policy as well as for a future-oriented further development.” [[Abg. Wöginger: Is that your contribution?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] [[New call of the abg. Binder-Maier.]] “With Verena Remler, family policy has a new representative with a consistent profile of competence.” That is what Mr Mitterlehner said. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is she?]] There was strong criticism of the opposition at the time, where we have already said that you have put an unsuspecting person there, where it was only about coming from the right covenant, namely from ÖAAB, and from the right federal state, from the federal state of Tyrol. [[New call for tender Binder-Maier]] That was the only competence that Mrs Remler could show, and this is also evident in her non-performance balance. [[OBJECTIVES]] But what did the Lord Mitterlehner then – and we have been severely shocked because of our concerns expressed at the time, when ordering – the opposition, the BZÖ, on 13 March. - How's it going? - It's on November? - You can give Mrs. Remler a chance. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: human hatred! Shame!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Is this your contribution for the families? Is that your performance? Where's your speech?]] – Quote: “Everyone deserves a chance and Remler will also perceive it,” said the Minister – Mitterlehner – “was convinced.” Yes, where has this opportunity remained, Mr Mitterlehner, Mr Kopf – because you are just so beautiful together? [[Abg. Head of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner at the government bank]] Has the woman Remler taken advantage of her chance? What did she do in this five-month term of office cost € 73,000? - He can't call me performance. [[Abg. Head: Where has your performance been so far?]] I can also show you that she can't show performance. [[Abg. Steibl: Where is your speech?]] What's the matter with her? – It is a harmonisation of the protection of young people, a uniform law on the protection of young people. To this day far and wide no trace of it! She announced a reform of the Youth Welfare Act, which she also wanted to do. - Even there, she didn't do anything. A novel of the Federal Children's and Youth Aid Act is also on its list. – Even there she has done nothing, but after five months she has returned to her country of Tyrol with 73 500 € more tax money in her pocket, stolen by the families. This is the family policy of the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48735	Mr Petzner! For the accusation that the Secretary of State has stolen €73 000 from the families except service Remler, I give you a call for order. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rädler: That's incredible!]] Keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48776	I would like to make the call for order for the families of this country who have to pay for such a State Secretary. I've been looking for a long time. I've been looking for two hours to see if I can find any political announcement from Mrs Remler. I found one – one! – in the Sunday edition of the "Presse" of 13th. ==References== That was the only statement of content. [[Abg. Riepl: Say something to the budget!]] That is why, Mr President, this is because we are burdened with €73 500 in the budget. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They are €73 000, not me, because families can often only dream of having so much money in their pocket. [[towards ÖVP]] They sometimes don't know how to finance their families anymore. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: How much did your Carinthia cost?]] The only political achievement was that the wife Remler against company meetings – no joke! – after 5 p.m. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Wow! After that's something!]] She said that we must ensure that we have “a certain meeting culture” in Austria. We must oblige entrepreneurs to have no more discussions after 5 p.m. That was their only political announcement. – Even she didn’t implement it, sure! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was their performance!]] You should listen more to your shot top candidates and prevented ÖVP Vienna-Obmann Karas. He was the only one who had abstained from the vote in the party board of the ÖVP, with the argument: “I don’t know this person”. I don't know that person! Give me the applause for Mr Karas. That was the only one who made the right decision in this regard. And as the ÖVP sees family policy – and I conclude with that – we also see the husband of Mrs. Remler: a performance artist who makes quite "total" projects. [[Abg. Steibl: Thank God!]] I can only name a few titles. Mr. Dieter Remler is also referred to as the “Hermann Nitsch von Lienz”. He makes great performances with titles like “Mountain Myth or Whore”. – This is your family policy! [[Abg. Gahr: This is a scandal!]] [[Further sustained and lively calls to the ÖVP.]] Or: Mr Remler makes a project entitled “Experience of Subconsciousness by Drugs and Alcohol”. As a family party, you have the responsibility of the ÖVP to ensure, even by means of a uniform Youth Protection Act, that we prevent drug abuse from preventing alcohol abuse. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Their followers are protesting this and making exhibitions under the title: How drugs and alcohol change subconsciousness. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] – As a family party, you have not resigned from the ÖVP since the wife Remler. The motto “performance has to pay” is that although it is true, it does not live in its own ranks. And this unhappy career of Mrs. Remler at the expense of taxpayers will help you to be selected by the families and will land at less than 20 percent at the next elections. – I’m prophesying to you!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48912	To prevent all kinds of excitement: I shall have the Stenographical Protocol of this speech come to mind and will subsequently assess whether further insults have occurred. [[Abg. Grosz: (on p. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Can we calm down the honourable Members?]] I also ask the... [[Abg. Petzner: (on p. She's insulting me!]] You know, we Presidents are very, very versatile, but we can't judge in every conversation you have with each other whether there has been a question of orderly reputation. I therefore ask for understanding. [[Abg. Grosz: No, just calm down!]] So I don't notice excitement right now. The next speaker was Mr Lipitsch. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e48980	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Petzner, you have done what you and your group can best do: Protest people. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can say from our side: That's a decided rejection! And if you're already discussing in this direction... – Mr. Westenthaler, you don't have to point out that way! I don't have a prep like you! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you even know?]] The difference is that the family compensation fund was cleared in the final effect in 2002. [[Abg. Petzner: Are you €73 000?]] And who was the minister? – Dear Mr Petzner, take your nose: It was your grass that cleared this fund! [[Abg. Petzner: That's not true at all!]] And today we and the Austrian families have to carry the rucksack created by it, because you've baffled it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... who you are at all! I don't know you! Who's that anyway?]] [[Abg. Petzner: That's what the OEGB has to say!]] It's being cleaned up, it's clear! The Federal Minister has already announced his ideas in a specific way. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is this a parliamentarian? Who is this?]] Mr. Westenthaler, not yet seen? Since 2002, if you cannot read statistics. The Federal Minister has made proposals, and we will support him accordingly. One thing is clear: It must be noted that such people as a Mr Grasser, as they have come to their money, will also make their contribution to the reorganisation of the budget. I think wealth has to be used. It's just people who have to keep up. And: We don't like to vilify people, but we pay attention to people!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49122	The next speaker was Mr Venier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President, has the Lord ever been praised? No one knows him!]] Mr Westenthaler, I hear you so badly, but we will talk after my presidency. Then I can give you answers to all questions. Please, Mr Venier, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49166	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! Although we have not yet reached entirely Greek conditions with regard to our budgetary policy, we need to set out our financial margin and deal with it as responsibly as possible. In particular, we must ensure that we also invest, not only in the classical areas such as technology, science, infrastructure, but primarily in our youth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is, of course, already happening to a certain extent, but I still see two problems there. The first problem is rather a macroeconomic one. We have been living over our conditions for decades and have since 1970 built a stately debt mountain of € 270 billion. The tragedy is that we now have to use a large part of our budget to serve the €10 billion of interest per year. On the other hand, we also need to put more and more money into purely consumer expenditure, especially in pensions. This does not only rob us of the births of their livelihoods over the last 20 years, but also of all subsequent generations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, we should have seen the problem before and should have responded to it. The re-indebtedness should also have been under control, and this would also be relatively simple if one were only prepared to slaughter some sacred cows. As I am already talking about administrative reform in the morning. I can only laugh. They have failed to do so, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second problem, another problem, is that we are misinvesting the funds we invest in youth. This is the case, for example, in the school sector, where completely wrong priorities are set and one has, for example, educational studies that do not fit in quite. This results in rapid shots, and we have the New Secondary School. Ladies and gentlemen, you can be sure that this middle school will bring nothing but a levelling of education down. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If, on the one hand, we demand an increase in the academic rate, but on the other hand we have to complain of a shortage of skilled workers, that is exactly schizophrenic in my eyes. It's right that we need academics especially in the MINT subjects. But otherwise, let's be honest: I don't have to be told by unemployed lawyers and psychologists who then chauffe me in the taxi. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These were just two short examples of wrong priorities for our youth. We are always talking about the fact that we should be economically efficient in dealing with our resources and using them properly. But there is probably no other area where we are so far away from resource-enhancing, resource-efficient handling than youth. Tu felix Austria, is an old saying, but fortunately, in this country the youth can only be again when the government and the missing policies belong to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49252	I can do the Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery, they represent the 40 000. Visitors to our democracy workshop. [[General condolences.]] I think we should at least manage to be models in time. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The next speaker was Mr Wöginger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49288	Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the face of our young guests, I'm going to make something different. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, Mr Petzner, that you have no idea of family policy, we have long known that, but what you have done here does not correspond to the dignity of this House. You should be ashamed, you should be really ashamed! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Riepl.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Petzner.]] Your salary was about €300 000 in the last three years, so every euro is one too much! And only when you have left this House will we be able to make a proper policy and conduct proper debates here again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: That's where you have to wait!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Austrian family policy is one of the best in Europe, yes, all over the world. Childcare money is a success story. We have guaranteed freedom of choice, we have the income-dependent childcare allowance, which is already used by 15 percent of the parents, and above all we also have an increasing father's share. These are all very positive effects in our family policy. I would like to address a second point and give our Minister Mitterlehner full support, namely for his proposals on the reform of the FLAF. These are important projects, which he has presented here, whether it is about maintenance payments, whether it is about child rearing times charged for the pension, not in relation to 75:25 or, as is currently the case, of about 72 percent of FLAF, but in relation to 50:50. This will be important in order to discharge FLAF and also to provide room for further important measures in family policy. This has also been announced by the Minister, such as a billing of inflation or an evaluation in the area of family aid. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address one aspect in this context, which is the calculation of child training times of four years per child. We call for a real four-year bill, but in this context we also need to talk about the early increase in the age of women's retirement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] I believe that these two points can be well combined. Real four years per child to guarantee, that is in the sense of our family policy, that is in the sense of our parents, especially the mothers, but one has to include in the discussion package the early increase in the retirement age of women. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: go with 65!]] I would also like to support the demand to take into account the time spent in pre-services and, above all, in pay cuts for collective contractual negotiations that are still in place in a wide range of areas. This is an appeal from us to the collective contractual partners, because then the income shears between men and women will become really tighter. Last, Mr. Federal Minister, thank you very much for the implementation of the voluntary social year. This is a milestone in youth policy and, above all, in voluntary work.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49374	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49395	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Mr Wöginger, if you accuse Mr Petzner of having no idea of family policy, I must tell you that you have no idea of women's pensions. [[It was in favour of the SPÖ and the BZÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Head: I don't know!]] I am now referring to Family & Profession Management GmbH in the family chapter. In total, €2.1 million is estimated in the budget. Hievon is expected to be worth €700 on projects, according to you, Minister. The family & profession management GmbH, which is controversial from the beginning, is a company of the federal government. It is financed by the Ministry of Family Affairs and has the aim of promoting innovative childcare facilities. [[Abg. Head: Will this now be a criticism of the Social Minister?]] [[Abg. Grosz: now the Jörg Haider Medal!]] In 2011, 15 out of 36 projects submitted have been supported with €428 000. Childcare is essential for a realistic implementation of the compatibility of family and work. Only child care facilities tailored to the working world serve parents and employers. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to take this into account in future in the award of funding to Family & Profession Management GmbH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49465	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49486	Mr President. I think we should get some rest. We're talking about the family, and the family deserves it, I think. I'm very proud we're doing so much for our families. It has already been mentioned: €6.3 billion. This is very, very much money, and anyway, we have more than in 2007 – there was still a high economy, that was the year before the crisis – around €708 million. So I'm very, very proud. As some previous speakers have said that the family compensation fund is fed by the workers: Don't do that! 83 percent pay the companies. [[Abg. Krainer: They do it, don't pay!]] The Minister did so. Today, ladies and gentlemen, you have just spoken a lot about justice. I also ask you for justice when it comes to matters relating to entrepreneurs, freelancers and self-employed people. Be socially fair and join me in supporting the increase of our weekly money! The average of the female workers receives 41 € per week. Self-employed get only €26.26; and that is really an amount that is not fair, it is not socially fair. Support You're my demand, because these costs are up to € 15 million! This is about a quarter of the cost of maintenance advances. I could express it differently, too: This is the amount that we must spend in 15 hours so that we pay the interest of our public debt. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49521	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49542	Mr President. Federal Minister! Of course, Mr Wöginger, the appeal to take into account child rearing times during the CV negotiations is perfectly justified. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] Let's get some of that. I have already talked to my trade union friends about it, they have said that it's all right, that's on the demand programme. You still need to talk to the Chamber of Commerce. I would suggest that we do this now and then we see what comes out of the negotiations. The metallurgists have already done this. That's what I said. [[Abg. Wöginger: On the priority list it must be on top!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 2012 budget ensures a sustainable assurance of existing family benefits. So it is in a question answered by the Federal Minister. It's actually not a lot to add to that. That means we lie, I think, with family policy as a whole very well, especially if you look at it in an international comparison. The expenditure for the family and youth sector is quite specific 6 331 051 million, i.e. approximately € 6.33 billion. I think that can be seen. If you compare the 2008 budget with that of the year 2012, i.e. with the upcoming budget, then we see that we have € 294 million more that we spend on family and youth. A little bit more: Family aid will then be reimbursed if you exceed 10 000 €. What bothers me personally – and I really ask you, Minister of State, perhaps you can think about it again – is that there is not in any way a looping arrangement if you only exceed this limit of commitment by a few euros. In this case, you may have to repay the entire family allowance, along with the amount of the amortisation for the whole year. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] This is a subject that you should look at in peace again, because it cannot be that you have to pay back a few thousand euros suddenly because of a few euros if you do not respect this limit. In this sense, we can complete family policy with a plus in the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49594	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Mitterlehner, has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49615	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Only a few very short answers – as far as it goes briefly – to asked questions. One, I think, was defined by Mrs Musiol, as defined by the Youth Promotion Act: up to 30 years old, and that is once a requirement that we must comply with accordingly. Then Mrs. Schenk asked how the discrepancy between what you find on the Internet and what is in an answer to a question can be explained. Which associations or projects have been or are funded under the title Parenting, Divorce and Separation? – The discrepancy is simply explained by the fact that there are also branches in individual municipal centres, and they have not been taken into account in the request response, but very probably available in practice. However, I am right to say that we will all carry out a review of these advisory bodies to the extent that we can carry out or support efficiency improvements through summaries. One important question, which, I believe, you have also asked, was how, after this decision by the UFS, the independent financial senate, is going on in the specific case. The problem is: The decision is taken for the family concerned. In other words, it has only the opportunity to proceed through the administrative court. Costs are expected to be in the order of 1 000 €. I assume that, if the situation is financially, one should be given the social one, since it can be supportive with procedural assistance. On the question of what about the others: The others should not be affected if that is what the Ministry of Finance has to say. It was also in the specific case that the reason for the decision was rather an amount of discussion than the principle question. What was also mentioned was the administrative costs, childcare allowance. I agree with you that we will make an evaluation and see how we can ensure efficiency in what is going to happen. Mr Riepl referred to the need to pay and to repay are also one of these enforcement issues. There is a relief because, anyway, only the aliquota part that has been overburdened is to be repaid and not the whole – in contrast to previous years. But that's what we're going to look at. I can also announce: We will also undertake the free movement of students to what extent further developments towards electronic applications and the like could also lead to a better proximity to citizens. In the final effect, when we talk about promotions, we must also check all these areas in terms of practicality and efficiency, and we want to do so next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49660	On the sub-division of family and youth, there is no further word for me. This is why this subject area has been completed. [[14:57:43]] UG 42: Agriculture, forestry and water management
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49682	We arrive at the negotiation of the UG 42: Agriculture, forestry and water management. Mr Riemer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49706	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr. Minister! I would like to thank the Members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. There were interesting, controversial discussions, but I think they lead to a real future. Our Federal Minister, with his evolutionary approaches, is also worthy of discussion. I can only say it was always very exciting. Nevertheless, it must be called: Food autonomy versus EU-dictate, and I therefore also call for deideologicalization of agriculture in Austria. Farmers are not playballs, not promoters, but service providers and guaranteers for healthy food, healthy diets and keepers of the cultural area. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is what we want and have to afford, and it cannot always be dealt with under the motto of technocracy on the basis of life. It can't be either, because businesses need guarantees to develop, and people need perspectives. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] If a dozen companies already belong to two thirds of the world market, trade chains dictate prices with us in the country itself, then that is terrible and bad. In addition, the global climate change that concerns us is still happening. Genetic engineering, nitrate-polluted water, floods and also bee dying are current threats. That's not away from the table. I put forward a motion for a resolution by Mr Jannach, colleagues, on the ban on the cultivation of the 'Fortuna' gene potato. The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry is invited to oppose at European level the authorisation of the cultivation of genetic engineering. to use potato ‘Fortuna’ and ensure a national ban on cultivation.’ A national vision of the agricultural policy should look as follows: Products at marketable prices for consumers and guaranteed income for producers must remain the objective of responsible self-sufficiency regardless of the EU. This also includes new distribution channels. I now cite a few examples from the South Styria. First: The discussion about the box stands cannot mean animal protection versus farmers. That can't be! This is where reason is required by consumers, farmers and animal welfare activists. Secondly, Discussion on destroyed food. – 1 million kilograms of tomatoes were destroyed by a small community in the district of Radkersburg. Please, that can't be! That's sin. That's evil. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Only with the help of some producers, some farms can raise their margins, was this done. I can't! 40 cents gets the farmer. Calculate this! 40 cents by 1 million kilograms, that's 400 000 €. That's where you're wondering: What can be done if the food is destroyed anyway? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thirdly, Drinking water situation. – We know that nitrates, sewage sludge et cetera are contained in drinking water. That's where a mess management belongs. And there everyone is called on to cooperate here with agriculture and, of course, with the citizens – but not against the farmers! Another problem: the “Asian lady beetle” – has been acting like an explosion this time. Heavy damage is expected for the wine industry next year. That's a very bad thing about the winegrowers. The same applies to the “American Rebzikade”. I'll get you together. So we're worried enough. New solutions are needed to maintain our rural structures. That is why there should be no further bureaucratic conditions for our farmers. A reasonable path and less ideological dispute between ecological and biological approaches to the symbiosis of producers and people, such as new channels of distribution, must be the goal for autonomous agriculture, in the future thought as challenging new definition of principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49812	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49861	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49882	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Farmers provide services for the whole society. They produce food that is safe, high-quality, and of course they also want to be handled with care. They maintain the cultural landscape, which is of great importance to the tourism industry, but which is also very important for every seeker of recreation and from which all people benefit. Farmers do this in the awareness that they have to contribute to any change in the political framework, that these are major challenges and that they have to respond flexibly to them. We are currently discussing the common agricultural policy after 2013. Farmers are also willing to modernise their farm structures, but always with the claim that they can also afford that they are not threatened in their existence and that what they have to do is also really useful. Farmers are the core population in rural areas. They are also willing to take over volunteer functions and do so. They show a very high social competence and live family. Of course, the attitude of values behind it is also of great importance to the peasant families, because they think in generations and economies in generations. The women are at the heart of the event, as the threads run together, they are the innovative forces in our farm families. Often they come to agriculture as late-time beginners, but they are those who are always looking to see that a positive development takes place. They don't always make it. Not all farms – and you can also read this from the Green Report – can be passed on to the next generations. However, it is not always the small and micro-enterprises that give up, but it is sometimes also farms that would be quite viable. It is especially the young people who are not willing to continue farming. [[Abg. Singer: Too little to live, too much to die!]] However, they are highly sought-after workers in the economy because they are willing to provide services. Farmers know that one thing counts for agriculture: a well-founded training that will bring them into a prosperous future. It is therefore also good and right that agriculture in the field of education is not saved. We are pleased to see increases in all areas. I would just like to take one out, namely the field of consultation. For example, €8.2 million will be made available to the Chambers of Agriculture. This is also a question of the implementation of the common agricultural policy. Consultations in the areas of environmental protection, energy, production technology, animal welfare and, of course, also take place in all areas where the innovative development of farms is concerned. These consultations are really important for our farmers. And that is why it is important that they are made very close to the farms, in the regions outside. Of course, adult education is also of great importance, especially among farmers. There are vocational training programmes and projects, and agricultural education and agricultural policy education are also offered. I thank Federal Minister Berlakovich for very prominently supporting the women's education projects. This strengthens the agricultural self-confidence of farmers and the innovative power of our farms and rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Agriculture is a rural economy. The work of farmers gives the land its face and people what they need daily, namely food.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49925	I've heard our students will leave us in the next few minutes. They are already very tired because they have worked intensively in the “democracy workshop”. We wish you all the best for the future! I'm glad you were there. [[General condolences.]] Mr Pirklhuber spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e49957	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! It has not yet been said much about the 2012 agricultural budget. The key point is the fact that you have given your approval and implemented it here to Loipersdorf, a significant reduction in the agricultural budget. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Huber.]] For example, there is a significant reduction in rural development resources compared to 2010, which is 26 percent less. Mr. Federal Minister, you are also responsible for not having revised the 2009 Biointroductory stop. This means that farms that now want to enter the organic farming industry in 2011 or in 2012 have no means of being supported by funding from your resort in this area. I do not understand this at all, because you are environmental ministers and therefore are responsible for the interface “climate protection”, and climate protection in agriculture is called organic farming, called humus building, means highest food safety and quality. This is therefore completely incomprehensible from my point of view. You have given the Chambers of Agriculture the agreed funds, the €8.2 million plus, Mrs. Hellererer, €10 million, as indicated by the questionnaire replies, for the INVEKOS processing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hellerer]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Abbreviated!]] What you have not made available to us – Mr Federal Minister, you can speak later and make a statement here; that is all right – that is the advisory agreement, which is the agreement between the Federal Government and the Chambers of Agriculture, where the package of services of the Chambers of Agriculture is formulated. You didn't give us that. To this day we haven't gotten that. We will continue to support it, as it is not a question of giving €8 million to a public institution and not even knowing what specific work packages are agreed upon. That's impossible! What is incomprehensible from our point of view – and now I come to the agricultural policy challenge of the next few months – is the fact that you have not yet made a clear statement here in Parliament – and not a positive statement! – have made the greening of agricultural policy at European level. I still miss a clear commitment to what Commissioner Cioloş has proposed at European level as a greening in connection with the first pillar of agricultural policy. Greening is a big new step towards a general greening of the European agricultural policy, i.e. more ecology and, as I hope, more social justice. There is also a clear commitment from you, Mr Minister, to the single basic premium. This has been the case for the green farmers a few years ago and has criticized the nature of the agricultural policy you have chosen, namely the historical reference periods from 2000 to 2002 and the distribution of premiums entirely different. You have criticized that in 2010 you did not take the opportunity to enter a new model. This would have been possible through the Health Check. No, you want to continue your course of injustice. And the Commission is giving us five more years – and that is what we are criticising – to adapt these unfair systems to distribution. That means that until 2019 this will be as possible. That would also require a clear statement from you. The ceiling you have requested, which is €800 000, has indeed been clearly and massively undermined by the Commission, and this has made it clear how far you are from the social challenges of the European agricultural policy. €800 000 Upper limit was your proposal, the Commission says €300 000. This is okay, this is a compromise at European level, but it would also have to be further discussed. From my point of view, it is also a matter of assessing the ecological measures in the First Column, even from an Austrian point of view. From our point of view, it is necessary to contradict the Commission's proposal, which says that 70 per cent of a culture is already a system of results. We say: That can't be! We want a maximum of 50 percent of an area for a culture! It is also crucial that there is a protein programme, a European programme to ensure food supply and the production of feed in Europe, free of genetic engineering, and that this is also implemented in the first pillar. There is still a statement from you, Mr Federal Minister. GMO-free agriculture is at all one of the things where you have always fully announced: Yes, we have already achieved that! – Unfortunately, there is still no success, because the right to non-genotechnic cultivation, to non-genotechnic agriculture, is still not finally negotiated. Mr Federal Minister, I expect you to start a new initiative here by the end of this year or until the beginning of the next Agriculture Councils, so that at last the law on non-genotechnic cultivation, which is still not decided, will be implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50008	Now comes Mr Mag. Gaßner to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50029	Madam President. Federal Minister! 3 minutes – three points. First of all: rural development. – Mr Federal Minister, the current budget will cut the national budget for rural development by €35 million. My fear: This reduction is due to regional policy approaches. I hope that is not so, because rural and rural development are not only a matter of agriculture, but also of all people living in this rural area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Like the farmers, there are workers, pensioners, young people, older people, and they all need the infrastructure that is common everywhere else. There is already the possibility of working together on pots to open up pots together to carry out joint projects. This will mean the future for us. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I have read something in the “Kurier” about which I am very pleased: Jakob Auer wants to represent not only the farmers but the whole rural area. [[Abg. Jakob Auer nodds.]] – Thank you for this observation, which will certainly help us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point: Mrs. Höllerer mentioned the educational budget and praised the fact that it was increased. As far as continuing training is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, as far as agricultural schools are concerned, I cannot give you the right to do so, because why is a student in an agricultural vocational training worth twice as much as a student in a vocational school? That's incomprehensible! [[Complementary of the Abg. Listen to me.]] And then I noticed something else, and I asked myself, Why, according to the Court of Auditors' report in the countries of Tyrol and Upper Austria, has the Court of Auditors not examined any more; Styria, too, why are there €800 000 per year for grants to teachers in these schools in addition to their normal teachers' salary? That's €1.6 million in privileges! Otherwise, I can't say that. – We still have to talk about that! Replying to privileges: We are talking about saving, we are talking about the debt brake, and if we really want to implement it, then it is also to be considered to eliminate the privilege that farmers still enjoy benefits at a unit value of €100 000. I mean, this package at a unit value of €100 000 is simply not all right. I'm holding it there with Mr. Hardegg – not my friend! – a big farmer in Austria who says: “I find a revenue-expenditure account useful and correct for farmers.” [[Congratulation of the Abg. Huber.]] Getting Now You're saying: More bureaucracy! [[Abg. Huber: Less!]] –I know from many discussions that the farmers know exactly and precisely about their business management, so they can also have an accounting. And then we finally got rid of this dispute: Are they preferred for taxation or not? – That would be a proposal on my part. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, a sentence on reflection for our colleagues in the coalition: I believe that millionaires have to make their contribution to the debt brake just and comprehensively. Only then can we even think about savings in the social field!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50125	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50146	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Europe faces major challenges, and it is not just an Austrian concern, but a concern of many national states to get national budgets in order. This is a way that we have taken in Austria, and it has also been a matter of the agricultural sector which is making a contribution to the reorganisation of the budget. In the negotiations with the Minister for Finance Maria Fekter, there was a clear objective: We want a consolidated budget, ordered state finances, where agriculture also has its part to contribute to making us a future budget! –And that was successful too! Mr Gaßner, you know that consolidation measures are necessary, and it is not fair to say here: Well, in rural development, it was saved! – It was your party who repeatedly pointed out that we should save especially in rural development. These were very tough and hard negotiations. But it's still... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sacher.]] I was there during the negotiations, you weren't there! . I just note that the SPÖ has repeatedly come up with the proposal that rural development must be saved. [[Abg. May. Gäsner shakes his head in no way.]] We have tried to do so in agreement with the countries in such a way that we can still maintain investment measures. That's a success! The agricultural budget is a guarantee that we can continue to maintain sustainable rural farming. It was therefore important to ensure that the decisive programmes are financed, namely those where farmers have entered into multi-annual commitments, where it is only right and reasonable that the State says: Yes, I also keep the pact! The farmers said: I participate in the environmental programme, I commit myself to working environmentally friendlyly for several years, but then I also expect the state to give me these benefits! – To ensure that was also my concern, and that was successful. The income of farmers is not involved. The environmental programme and the mining programme are financed, and this is important. I would also like to mention this because, at the present time, various professional groups are negotiating wage statements intensively. Inflation is to be remunerated, so is the demand, and it is also legitimate. This requires, for example, the metallurgists, the railways and the commercial workers. That is why it is only fair to say that agriculture's income should not be cut. Even though we have experienced a rise in income in the Green Report we discussed here a few days ago, the income reduction in recent years has not yet been compensated. It is therefore important that we finance these programmes, because if we invest in agricultural incomes, that means that farmers do not put the money somewhere in a savings stick under the spell, but immediately invest in their farms. Ask about the agricultural engineering industry, the agricultural trade, the steel industry! It is important that we maintain this innovation dynamic for the agricultural sector. But we've also saved it. The fact is, Mr Pirklhuber, that the Chambers of Agriculture and industry associations have made a very good contribution to this. I am also grateful for that. And you know, I don't really think it's fair when you say here that you didn't get any information. You've got this information for sure. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... not to this day!]] You got that where it's inside: The advisory contents for the Chamber of Agriculture are production technology, entrepreneurship, animal welfare, animal health, so a large number of points – and you claim here that you have not received this information?- Oh, my God! It is not fair if you misinformation the public here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] We have also very probably saved in the agricultural administration: in the ministry itself, in the recruitment of staff, in other things, but at the same time we have also – and I am grateful to the honourable Member Hellererer for mentioning it – invested in the education sector and increased the funds there, especially as regards the work of farmers. This is a very important point: 40 percent of our businesses are run by women, with a multiple extra burden. This is why special support is given to women. Mrs Hellerer, thank you as the Federal Farmer for your valuable work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I said to the programmes: financed. It is a result of the environmental programme that we are exemplary in Europe. We are praised by Commission President Barroso downwards: As Austria makes agricultural policy, it is exemplary, ecological and sustainable. It is also not fair to say that we have a bio-farmer entry stop, they are no longer allowed. The point is, organic farmers, who are such, can, of course, expand areas when they are leased. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But not new!]] The area of organic farmers is growing and we have the effect that although we are not yet so successful in football, in organic farming we are world champions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] No state on earth has managed as much as Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You know exactly, Mr Pirklhuber, if a farmer says today, I'm getting into the programme, then he has to commit himself to five years. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: They can't be anymore!]] The program ends in 2013, so we can no longer assure them that they will receive the premium. Therefore, it is only responsible to say that those who re-arrange will no longer have the guarantee that they will receive funds. And that, we said, we don't think the farmer is too close. You can't imagine that, because then the farmer remains – and we won't let that happen. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is absurd!]] On genetic engineering: That too is an unfair accusation. It is clear that we want to remain free of genetic engineering in cultivation and that, on the initiative I launched on the right of self-determination in genetic engineering, everyone said at that time, even those present, this will not be successful in Europe. And the success was the breakthrough. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] – If you do not understand this, I am sorry that the Commission has incorporated it into its programme, against all expectations. That was the political success. The ball is now with the European Commission. Health Commissioner Dalli said yes, he wants to implement the right of self-determination, so it must also enforce the Commission and Austria will support it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For me, the central point – and that was always Austria’s agricultural policy – was that we are picking up the money available in Brussels. It would be absurd. Austria is paying funds to the European Union, but we are leaving money behind. That is why it has always been a strategy – and this has been successful in the agricultural budget – that we have so many national funds that we can bring every euro, every cent from Brussels back to Austria. This is still an important policy. This has been successful. Another important point: Climate protection – increased natural hazards, floods, drought and similar things. The flood protection funds will not be reduced in the coming year. This is also important for the municipalities, for the federal states, where we implement many hundreds of flood protection projects. On agricultural schooling: There is a knowledge of the Supreme Court, which makes it clear that the Federation pays only for teachers in the establishment plan. The federal government says that if other federal states employ more teachers, the federal states have to pay it; that is their right, but they have to pay it. From the Styria there have been reports from the State Council of Education there, but the federal government should finally draw up the criteria which schools remain in the Styria. This is not the task of the federal government, which decides the country itself, because the country is responsible for the school system there. But the point, Mr Gaßner, why the Court of Auditors has said that agricultural students are more expensive is because the schooling activities of teachers are included in the agricultural pupils. It is also included in the research work. Practically applied research is also being carried out in many agricultural schools. And there are practical establishments to help the rural youth get practical experience there. This practical activity of teachers is also included. Therefore, the costs appear higher, but are eligible. This also holds the Court of Auditors. Nevertheless: In savings times, I have increased the educational budget because that is the future where we train young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to mention that we have saved a total of € 25 million for the savings in the house in 2012 and subsequent years: Admission lock, reorganisation of IT, service trips, overtime – many things were saved to save first in the bureaucracy, in the administration. Thanks be to the Ministry of Life's officials, who nevertheless carry out their duties properly and give their best. That we can give as much money as possible to agriculture that is invested in rural areas – I am right to say: It has always been our policy that rural areas are intertwined with tourism, with trade, with trade to have viable rural areas. In conclusion: Austrian agriculture is well positioned. We are preparing ourselves towards Europe. We have a lot to offer organically. We are a young agro-nation, small-structured, a rural agriculture, a value that is one. There are mass animal husbandry in Europe, huge farms. We want to maintain the small peasant structure – also in pig farming, which we are currently discussing. It is clear that we want to maintain the competitiveness of our businesses. It is therefore an important point of the package. To suggest the package means that farmers do not pay taxes, that is not fair. In Austria, 2.5 million people do not pay taxes because they have a low income, workers, employees and also farmers. But the meaning of the package is that I have a simplified, unbureaucratic system. And I support the Minister of Finance because she says that she is thinking of extending it in the commercial field. It can't be that there's a controller behind each pile, but that the farmer works in the field, in the stable, and doesn't suffocate in the bureaucracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have clearly positioned myself against the common agricultural policy. Yes, we support it when the common agricultural policy becomes more ecological when it becomes greener. This is the way Austria has been going since accession to the EU. What we do not support – Mr Pirklhuber, as always – is a variety of bureaucracy. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is...!]] Eastern, Central and Western Europe say that what the Commission has presented is a sample of bureaucracy that we cannot accept. There's still a lot of negotiation needs. We'll use it. Finally, to re-establish the budget. The agricultural sector is always contributing its part to the reorganisation of the budget. A great deal is now being said about promotions, and funding needs to be saved. The Wifo speaks of 15 to 18 billion euros of funding. The agricultural share of support is 4.5 percent. Wifo numbers! So if anyone believes that he is rehabilitating the budget on the cut in the agricultural sector, he is in error. I really want you to know that we are not doing budget renovation in ideological ways, but rather making it in a reasonable way, where it is really about maintaining competitiveness and innovation. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: When it comes to agriculture, it is suddenly ideological! That's really unlikely!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50322	Mr Linder has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50343	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners here in the house and at home in front of the screens! Dear Wolfgang Pirklhuber, as regards your permanent demand regarding agricultural greening: It is sad, but we are currently faced with the vote from the EU Parliament to the effect that your colleagues in Brussels voted against European bee protection. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] – So much for the fact and – this is very often true of the greens – for the water-preaching and wine-drinking. We have heard a lot about the advantages of our agriculture today. The Minister has just mentioned how important it is to have the small-structured rural agriculture, to produce the products on-site and to be able to sell the products in the enjoyment regions on-site. That sounds very nice and very good. But if we hear a little bit into the peasantry, we must find that we are facing two major problems in agriculture. On the one hand, the peasantry suffers from bureaucracy. The minister himself said that behind every mess, there's a controller. I've had to experience it myself this year in my company. The second problem is that small farmers are insecure. What does she expect next year, what does she expect after 2014? . Here, Mr Minister, I would have expected an indication in the budget of the fact that small-structured agriculture is really given security and the future. In fact, we experience that despite the other estimate for the first month of 2012, there will be an increase in the staff budget at the Ministry of Agriculture. There will also be an increase for the AMA, and if there are only €300 000, a budget increase of € 300 000. That can't be! These areas should be shortened and simplified. Finally, of course, the reduction of almost €35 million in the rural budget, in rural development. I think that's the wrong signal – the wrong signal to small-structured agriculture and the wrong signal to rural areas. Let us assure these small businesses that they will receive a certain basic amount of funding even after 2014! Let's take something out of the 1.8 percent of the farms that receive 11.7 percent of the funding, on average, over €75 700, and we put up a fixed amount for small farms, so that the young people who are considering whether they should continue to run agriculture after 2013 will get a security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] It's not that much about money, it's about security to signal to people. This signal, I think, should be sent to them, because the large crowd outside believes you don't care about the small businesses. Sometimes I feel that it is really so with some farmers' federal representatives here that they say we don't care about the small farms, the big farms are important. I think it's about the signal we're sending out there. A word on flood protection, Minister. It's right that the sum of money remains the same. The practice, however, shows – and I do not fully understand – that the grant of the federal government has fallen enormously per project supported in the communities. I repeat the example of my own community: For the project a few years ago with 65 percent funding from the federal government, there is now only more than 50 percent. With an almost 2 million euros project, 15 percent are very, very much money for a small, financially weak community. I think that if you cut subsidies per project, even if you keep the same money, that's a wrong signal. On the subject of debt brakes and the exchange of agriculture. I hope that it is really, as it has been called for here today, so: We should not do this with class-warring tones, but with cool head! In a colleague, Mr Auer, I can give you the right, and I will stand behind it when it comes to the agricultural sector making its contribution: I can imagine that one would be taxed on the profit of the value in the context of conversions, but since only the only wish that this money be made available to the municipalities is used for the purpose of the communities, because we have the costs with the creation of infrastructure, we have the follow-up costs with these diverted reasons. [[Abg. Jacob Auer: As in Upper Austria!]] [[Complaints with FPÖ and SPÖ as well as with members of the BZÖ]] I hope we get through there and we can pull a line there.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50423	Mr Eßl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50445	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should have a common goal, namely that farmers and people as a whole in rural areas are fine. In this regard, I do not necessarily believe, Mr Gaßner, that all the resources that come from rural development are suddenly being spread widely, but that all possible mechanisms are being opened up. This money comes from the agricultural sector, comes from the common agricultural policy and should therefore be used primarily there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The money comes from taxpayers!]] There is also regional policy in Brussels. We can think together about how we get money for rural development. We have a budget that is not a jubile budget, but that is quite acceptable in this saving situation in which we are in. It is important given the challenges that farmers are currently facing – after 2014 the agricultural policy is rewritten – that we have a stable national budget. With €2.15 billion, this budget is stable. However, I have to say – this is important to me – that 1.3 billions of funds come from the European Union, that 275 million euros come from the countries, that is, we actually trigger €555, 556 million federal funds for farmers, no, not for farmers, but for rural people – for the benefit of the whole society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore very important that we make the amounts available to us that we can also collect the funds in Brussels to ensure co-financing. With regard to agri-environmental measures: I call 116,000 farms, 89 per cent of the area is bound, which are voluntary in these agri-environmental measures. In particular, payments for farmers and farmers in less favoured areas amount to € 265 million, including 94 000 farmers. They're safe. As a Green Country representative, it is also important to me that these funds are secured. Thanks also to you, Federal Minister, that you have assured that the mother cow premium will be fully paid out in the budget in spite of regroupings as in 2011, because the mining industry has the most difficult income situation in particular. Farmers' services are multi-layered, they produce food and create a habitat with quality of life. I therefore believe that where there is a contractual basis, for example in the environmental programme, these benefits should no longer be discretionary expenditure in the future, but that these contractual premiums should also be taken into account. I should like to thank the farmers for their work and think that this budget is quite acceptable.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50493	Mrs Mag. Brunner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50515	Madam President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators here in the house and at home! In the direction of FPÖ: I can assure you that the Greens at EU level, here in Parliament and at all levels have always been committed to the protection of bees and also to very, very strict measures and controls. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We can also provide you with our proposals and package of measures. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister for Agriculture, Mr Pirklhuber's question referred to the advisory agreement and the advisory content of the Agriculture Chambers. What you wrote here in your reply, these are just headlines. This does not indicate at all what the Treaty is and what the concrete contents of this Treaty are and... – That is your answer. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] And there are loud headlines where you list this, but no one knows what's really behind it. Bio-agriculture, for example, does not even occur. – So much for the information you provide to us. In general, I hope that all of us here in the House will be aware of the importance of agriculture. Of course, it has an important role to play in providing healthy and regional food. I would also like to express my respect for the profession of farmers, because I think that it is often underestimated. But the importance of agriculture goes, I believe, beyond the production of food. In the area of nature conservation, the maintenance and conservation of our natural and cultural areas, farmers have a special task. That is why your budget also provides for funds for rural development. Unfortunately, however, these funds have been postponed and projects have been pushed to the long-term bank. We don't understand. Perhaps you will explain to us and also to the rural population why this is being delayed. Unfortunately, I do not think that will be fair to the importance and benefits that agriculture can bring, and the added value that can be achieved for rural regions, and this will push many positive developments into the long-term bank. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, agriculture is not only of great importance but also of great responsibility in dealing with the environment, in dealing with the animal. What I miss in your budget – I didn't find it, maybe I could They still explain it –: We have, as you probably know, a situation in Austria that is not in conformity with the law, namely in the area of pig farming. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Go, please!]] It is still permitted, according to a regulation that you have to meet together with Federal Minister Stöger, the boxing booth in pig farming. These are body cages in which the pigs are a lifetime inside. That this has nothing to do with animal welfare is, I think, clear. [[Abg. Hoefinger: That's all not true!]] [[Abg. Gahr: That's not true!]] I expect a Minister of Agriculture to make available the funds so that we can have a legal status in Austria. The Animal Protection Act was unanimously adopted here in the house and is also implemented by you, Minister. I expect you to make the money available so that our agriculture can work properly. As a Minister of Agriculture, I would also expect you to make available funds and support farmers so much that they can also go to a future-oriented agriculture. If you know that we have a need to catch up here, I think it is more than irresponsible for farmers to be pushed into this situation, that they do not get any support in terms of advice and investment towards a return to an animal-friendly budget – then show us where you have estimated these funds in the agricultural budget! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true! That's not true!]] You're blocking! They block the regulation. They did not provide any means in the budget for the conversion to animal husbandry. I find this irresponsible and therefore urge you to reconsider your blockade. Everything else is not worthy of a rule of law like Austria. I am also of the opinion that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50618	Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50639	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget also offers us the opportunity to discuss the distribution of funds, the support measures, the criteria for support and, above all, to acknowledge that we are in favour of maintaining our rural structures in Austria, that we stand for the better design of rural areas, and that we ensure important measures in the field of the environment, in the field of quality of life, in the field of food safety by providing funds. For us, however, despite all this, the question arises over and over again, also with regard to the debate that has taken place today and has been conducted all week: How does the use of existing funds look like? What is the efficiency, sustainability? And above all, it is always to be checked: Who benefits? Is this allocation fair and balanced? I think this is an important approach which has its power in all areas and also in agriculture. Mr Minister, you must inform us about the promotion of rural development. We also read that there is a reduction in funds. You mean we agreed. I think you'll have to tell us. On the contrary: Rural development is very, very important to us. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: Federal Minister Fekter meant that the protection of the livelihoods for the farmers is important. – Yes, this protection also applies to all Austrians. On the subject of protection, I come to my personal focus in the field of agriculture, namely the situation of bee peoples, which contribute significantly to the preservation of our lives, of nature, of our existence. Mr. Minister, you commissioned studies. I think now is the time for us to act. There are also measures and initiatives at EU level. I refer to a press release by Karin Kadenbach, EU Deputies of Social Democracy, which says: Genetic engineering and pesticides are considered among experts to be the cause of massive bee death. – We know that, we have to do something. And then we're going to go on: We must not stick to research and studies, but we need concrete steering effects with the help of existing agricultural funding and, above all, more stringent authorisation procedures for plant protection products. We support this, and I think that is an issue that concerns us all, which is important and necessary. Coming to the end: Mr. Hörl, be a man! Apologize to the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture for your very unqualified statement in the Budget Committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50710	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50731	Madam President. Minister! Mrs Brunner, I have to inform you, because you have zero idea of pig farming: The pigs are not in the box stand all year, but only in the fermenting phase! I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural budget is just over €2.1 billion. We also discussed this in the Committee: For flood protection, well € 154 million is planned – an important measure. An important measure, ladies and gentlemen, is also that we introduce a ceiling on funding. It can't be that 20 percent of farmers cash 80 percent of the funding – and the many medium-sized and smaller businesses get nothing compared. To question, Mr Minister, is, of course, also the school seat situation. In part, you have explained this in terms of vocational schools. The burden on farmers by regulations, regulations are reduced. The set-aside for small and medium-sized farms must be maintained in order to prevent another farmer's death. The Minister has rightly said that 2010 has improved the income of farmers, but it does not equal the loss of recent years, ladies and gentlemen. We are proud of our miners who produce very good, healthy products that are gratefully bought and eaten by the population. We, dear friends, should all imagine what, if there were no miners, the public hand would cost all the measures that would be necessary due to natural disasters, slope, avalanches, floods. – It would be unfinancialable, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. Unfinancing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By managing the steep areas, farmers and young people also make a huge contribution to the safety and protection of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50801	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50826	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not my political style to keep up with each other, who gets how much and so on, because I believe that all professional groups in our country have the right to participate accordingly in the welfare state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Very often it sounds, the farmers get so much money, they are the subsidy recipients of the nation. – This accusation hurts. Let us take a closer look at this accusation. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the farmers also receive funds. For example, in Upper Austria investment aid in the last financing period: 100 million €. The amount of investment that can be detected is as follows: € 760 million. Proven because the evidence must be provided for each euro made available. VAT from these orders: over 140 million. That's where I wonder who really got the money. Let us be glad that it was possible to give impetus to the economy! Let us be glad that employment could be ensured in the regional economy! Let us be glad to see that the contracts could also be secured for regional industries and, in other words, that there could be a corresponding modernisation of agricultural establishments, installations and so on! Mrs Brunner! She's here right now – thank you for that. [[Abg. May. Brunner: What does “momentan ” mean?]] They have accused the Federal Minister of not making money available for the new forms of assembly. I'll let you know and help you a little bit. In Upper Austria, a new action has been taken, which looks like 25 percent direct aid for such modernisations of stables and six months of non-profit money has been made available to the major steel construction companies. – Nevertheless, a farmer cannot invest at all. You will be shown it on Tuesday even on the spot so you know what's going on. On behalf of Mr Pirklhuber, because very often the control bodies are also criticized: Mr Pirklhuber, I know that you are also involved in the bio-control. There you have quite a need for follow-up in some businesses in Upper Austria. I do not want to keep you in mind now that some businesses have difficulties through incorrect consultation, through consultation errors, whose rehabilitation will cost a lot of money. Therefore: Don't get together with stones! That's where you need action yourself! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The face of the country, the landscape of Austria, which is so appreciated by the tourists, shapes decisively and shape the farmers and the farmers of Austria. This face of the country is especially the incentive that so many tourists in Austria are making vacations. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian farmers are more than sustainable in European comparison. That is why I do not fully understand when a 7 % greening is included in the proposals for the forthcoming CAP period. Yes, we confess to manage and manage green – no question at all. But perhaps it would be more reasonable to think about significantly reducing this percentage and ensuring the areas for Austrian protein cultivation so that production takes place in its own country, because even more set-aside, even more such greening measures are something for monocultures. They don't exist in Austria. Thank you, Minister of State for your work!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50874	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e50896	Madam President. Federal Minister! We are discussing the agricultural budget today. In the first place, it bothers us that farmers are actually and effectively saved in 2012, but it is not clear to us – the Minister has said that there is also a savings in the administration – and no evidence has been provided, where specific savings measures have been put in place. We have two real criticisms, and we have already presented them at previous meetings. That is, Mr Minister, this incredible marketing rail that you only drive in your personal and personal interest. In 2008, €4.7 million was spent in the Ministry of Agriculture for the Minister's personal advertising, 4.5 million in 2009, almost 3 million in 2010 and €1.5 million in the present budget, which would correspond to an effective reduction, but this is not true, because the staff responsible for public relations in the ministry also caused costs of €1.6 million plus €500 000 for representation expenses of the ministry, according to the request response. We are of the opinion that in this area belongs effectively saved, and not only to the farmers! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] This was also mentioned today: 12 million € is spent by the Ministry of its officials as an additional contribution to the salary that officials receive at the Ministry of Agriculture. These are benefits for secondary activities, additional benefits, difficulties allowances, anniversary allowances, voluntary benefits. 12 million €! That too would be an area where you could save. Because we also have to consider: All who are employed in the ministry are officials, and for them the civil service law applies, so they also receive an official's pension. And according to Green Report, the average official's pension is €2 500. An average farmer's pension is 754 €. That is an imbalance, and this includes measures taken! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With regard to transparency, I would like to mention – and we have prepared a request here – that: A large number of positions in the agricultural budget are listed under the heading ‘work performance by third parties’, which are relatively large budget items. We always have to find out what is behind the positions of “work services by third parties” with requests to the Ministry. If the farmers had to make their records for their applications, they would have to work like the ministry, namely, with the concealment, the concealment of numbers, then they would have to repay all the funding. In this respect, I propose a resolution on transparency in the 2012 Federal Proposal on the real cost of public relations of the Ministry of Life, because we find the costs to be far too high here. The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management and the Federal Minister for Finance are asked to make the costs of public relations, image campaigns, corporate and media cooperation and similar, in the form of own expenditure positions in the Federal Proposal 2012”. That's so you can see where the farmers' money goes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In my opinion, I now come to a very sad point: this is this public work. I have brought a number of examples of how tax money and farm money are used exclusively for public work for one's own minister. I have a BILLA brochure here: ITS-Billa travel financed by the GENUSS REGION, financed by rural development. [[the speaker shall keep them up to date]] But it will not only apply for this initiative, but of course there is also an interview and image of the Federal Minister. Unbelievable what these things cost! [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] Another, much more shocking example: Supplement in the “News”, 52 pages. [[The speaker shows the supplement addressed.]] [[Abg. Grosz: There was a organic supplement too!]] Did it. Title of the Supplement: ‘Culinary journey through Austria’. Who's inserating, who's funding this? – AMA, agromarket Austria. [[Ah-run of the Abg. Singer.]] Of course again on the next page, like the “Krone” pin-up: the Minister with a big interview. Financed by the GENUSS REGION. Thus, cross-financed by the Ministry of Personal Consecration! Next example: the newspaper “today”, only distributed in Vienna: seven-page supplement. [[the speaker shall keep them up to date]] Page 2: Mr. Federal Minister. Page 4: Mr. Federal Minister. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] For personal consecration only! We believe that we should save here instead of constantly shortening the benefits of the farmers! [[Consistency with FPÖ and BZÖ as well as with the Abg. Oils.]] I would like to mention one example because it is really more than shocking and because I believe it embodies all the hypocrisy – both from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture. The Minister is certainly trying to make healthy food more popular for students. We all know that we are living in a fast-lived time – fast-food society – and the Federal Minister is trying to promote this healthy diet through “Genussland”. The AMA presents in these brochures, as we have seen here, for healthy culinary activities. At the same time, however, the AMA prepared a study in 2008, which shows that health is largely affected by fast food. The children learn tastes and smells. Thus, a study commissioned by the AMA shows that fast snacks, fast food, burgers and all this stuff are unhealthy. And what's going on this day? Heuer comes out a large brochure of McDonald’s Austria. [[The speaker shows the brochure.]] And now I'm showing you what the AMA is doing here: such an advertising at the expense of the farmers! It will undermine everything you want to do in the area of health for the population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] But it is also – and this is of course in such matters; thank you, Mr Mayerhofer – an interview with the Federal Minister inside. It's clear you can't give up on that. This is, in our view, a scandal and not the right one. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I would also like to say to the gentlemen of the AMA: To order a study that shows that fast food is bad, and at the same time to support this company, this world-wide group of farmers' money and taxpayers, who is doing exactly the opposite of what we really want, is a real naughtiness, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: More than just a naughtiness!]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: No polemics!]] A little point still at the end for you from the ÖVP: At yesterday's meeting of the Lower Austrian Landing Days, the ÖVP has adopted a resolution on the driving licence law. I wonder very slowly what game is being played here. In Lower Austria, a resolution is adopted to amend the driving licence law – and here you reject it in a blatant way at the expense of the farmers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would like to mention one more point: Mr Auer, unlike you, I do not share the view that we need a red tape for farmers. This redeployment levy is exclusively for farmers. We have lost 50,000 businesses since 1995, and we strongly reject a red tape, as you have requested in Ö1 journal today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundesminister, at the end of his speech: First of all, we call for greater transparency in this budget as regards the actual costs of public relations, and secondly, that all these controversial actions, especially all these advertising brochures, which serve only for personal evangelism, be either paid or hired privately and you are finally dedicating yourself to the work for our farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51085	Mr Jannach, I would like to give you the opportunity to withdraw the accusation of unkindness. [[Abg. Jannach: I didn't say that!]] [[Further intense calls to the FPÖ.]] I'll give you the opportunity to withdraw this! [[Abg. Jannach: I didn't say that!]] You have the Federal Minister... – Well, then that's how it fits. [[Abg. Jannach: Of course, I withdraw the term “Frequentness”!]] The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51182	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51203	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, we Socialists are very much concerned about consensus in the coalition, but your view of fiscal justice, which has been penetrated today, cannot be shared at all. If you say it can't be behind every mess-hop a controller – in a worker's room-kitchen apartment?- Oh, my God! With each employee, the tax on Heller and Pfennig is immediately deducted, Minister of State! And something else: It would be an act of tax justice to people in the less favoured rural regions, where income would be lower anyway, if, in particular, the rich and the millionaires would at last make a higher contribution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Back to consensus. – I should like to take this opportunity, Mr Federal Minister, to say very clearly once – and this is called consumers – that we are, of course, grateful to all farmers for producing healthy food for us. We are equally grateful, however, to all the other occupational groups who, through their activity, ensure the high quality of life in rural areas and ensure that people want to live there as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are particularly concerned about rural areas. As a representative of the forest district, a particularly peripheral and rural region, almost a model example of a rural region, I am disappointed, I have to say this very clearly here. We are disappointed that there is such a massive reduction in rural support. It's going to be dramatically shortened here! Of course, we welcome the fact that the cuts are also taking place in the agricultural resort, which we have called for very often, but we do not see that within the farm sector we are so unfairly distributed, Mr Minister of Agriculture. I am sure that a minister of the ÖVP of the type of Mr Fischler would put the heavy weights differently instead of saving in rural development. He would probably save – and we would like it immediately – a lot more, for example, in the field of agricultural diesel production. There are still enough savings. Another word about the already mentioned Commissioner, Mr Hahn. I recently had the opportunity to talk to Hahn on a visit to Brussels, and we discussed the regional support with him. Mr Hahn is also of the opinion that at the moment it is not optimal, it is too much in favour of agriculture and too much of the non-agricultural population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is what Hahn said before at least one dozen participants in this delegation. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] And Mr. Hahn said something about it, Mr. Schultes, namely: In the future, it will ensure that the funding is effective and will always be evaluated and examined, whether or not they are used in a targeted manner, and if not, he is also thinking about recoveries. It would be very good for rural areas if the funds were to be used more targetedly there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51282	Mr Huber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51303	Madam President. Federal Minister! I would like to point out that, because of the farmers' death in the last ten years, we really need to have a recess and to refer this budget back to committee. Let us all think together, because with this wood road that the ÖVP has taken, it has failed, one turns around before the bridge collapses. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But let me say two things about Tyrol, Mr. Federal Minister for Agriculture – and you should actually be the model of the farmers. In Tyrol, your party, Mr. Landesrat and Deputy Head of State Steixner, goes here and expropriates just 18,000 farmers! This model will, of course, be extended throughout Austria when Tyrol is completed, and no word has been heard by the Federal Minister to date, he has never been faced with any farmer. Farmers feel betrayed. Mr Federal Minister, you should at last give an opinion on this. But now, very briefly, to the budget. This budget is quite nice, because with the associations, the AMA, with all the ÖVP party advance organisations, there has been a strong increase everywhere. The most beautiful thing at all, the PREKO, the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture, has always received €60 000 in funding, and next year she gets €600 000. Mr. Federal Minister, this is the truth. Explain that! And a Chamber of Agriculture, which takes 42 million € out of the pocket each year to the farmers at risk of existence, is also being supported! Mr. Federal Minister, put it off at last! Whether the Presidential Conference prepares something internationally or not: I think you could really get along with the forced memberships. What the ÖVP does is pure polemics. Why don't we go here and make an association out of the farm chamber? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Everyone who wants to pay a voluntary member's contribution can pay for this, but let's stop by the fact that organisations are lifting compulsory membership contributions and then entering into a conflict of interest! Today, the Chamber of Agriculture makes representation and control in certain areas. The control belongs away from the chambers, the control belongs away from the AMA, the control belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture! Farmers want a support agency, farmers want a control body. Finally, be ready for real reforms so that farmers' deaths are finally over! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The President of PREKO is probably the king-maker of the new agricultural president Jakob Auer, who is already like an emperor, as one sees in tomorrow’s “curer”, and I can only say: If you represent farmers with such arrogance, farmers who have real fears of existence and then agree to a budget with which the rural area is dried out and the rural area, the municipalities the investment can no longer be maintained, then this cannot be the right policy. The policy of farmers' representatives should finally make the farmers a free entrepreneur – and not a raiffeisen or ÖVP bitter for which you have stamped him! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The school system at the agro-schools is really perfect, but at last it is extended to make the farmer an entrepreneur to promote entrepreneurship. Today, the farmer demands that he can finally make an entrance-out account that he is taxed on his income – he does not want the unit tax rate you have today, and not the social security of the unit value. We owe it to the farmers. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This excitement in the ÖVP is right. Please finally take up our solutions and reform agriculture! You have managed to ruin 50,000 existences from 1995 until now. Do you want to continue this path? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, we need to strengthen the competition authority. The farmer must be able to sell his energy today when he becomes an energy host. The farmer needs protection from cooperatives, the farmer needs protection from raiffeisen. Where's the competition authority? Where is the courage of the ÖVP? The Federal Minister laughs behind me here, instead of finally making a policy for farmers in Brussels, so that he appears there accordingly that the WTO rules are being used properly today to introduce import duties from third countries, that we allow the farmer to produce the protein in Austria, that Austria can become free of genetic engineering – and not to hide everything, such as that 600 000 tonnes of genetically contaminated feed are fed to our farm animals. That also concerns all consumers! But your answer is to laugh and grin! Madam President, I would also like to risk a call for an order, because I believe we owe people the fact that we are finally getting tougher and putting action into action. With regard to consumer protection: Our Minister of Agriculture needs servants and slaves of Raiffeisen and associations. We don't need that! We need free farmers to secure production. We are no longer autark in Austria today. Thanks to this ‘predominant’ policy, we import 2 million pigs annually! Although Mrs Brunner is upset about the boxing booths, we import 2 million pigs annually, mainly wanted by the farmers' alliances. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] That's where we have to put action. We also import hundreds of thousands of cattle – we are no longer autark! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And if you don't finally go into red tape, because the farmer, already controlled by the AMA today, by the EU, by the Chamber, is controlled by the country, then you are simply unbelievable. In the government program you have so much about red tape reduction inside and that the business transfer becomes free of charge. Mr. Federal Minister, where is that? You didn't do anything. Finally, stand up for the farmer that he can sell the energy produced free! Let us promote agriculture – and not rural electricity companies! Next is the seed. We're dependent on Raiffeisen today. We Austrian farmers have a fundamental right that we can produce, trade and trade the seed from our own harvest so that we do not become dependent on the Like Raiffeisen, like Monsanto. This rejects all of Austria, the whole population. You can continue to lie to the colleagueship, you can lie to consumers, but farmers are up to now! Again: If you have a balance sheet that shows that there is more to a farmer that an existence is secured, then you can talk, but as long as you only ruin existence with all force, you have no right to do so. And that's why I'm asking you to: Go our way! Let us stop the farmers together and finally represent agriculture – and not raiffeisen!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51467	Mr Principality is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51489	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What's so beautiful? – The Huber was from the 20's house, which looks so suspicious to me. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Dear colleague Gerhard Huber, when someone delivers such a high-scientific work for so long and shines with so much ignorance, it almost hurts physically when you have to listen by the way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would be a pity to deal with this in terms of content. I just have one request: You appealed to us, we should sit down. It is more meaningful if you perhaps put yourself together with you once so that you may be willing to accept some terms and contexts, just the little one-time one of the agricultural contexts a little bit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the farmers provide many services for society, such as the preservation of the cultural landscape, the expansion of renewable energy, the production of high-quality food, and the central point, of course, in agriculture, is also the provision of high-quality food at reasonable and affordable prices for the future. In times of high demand, on the one hand, but on the other hand constantly changing climatic conditions and unpredictable markets, this is a major challenge for agriculture. It is important for our farmers to be able to finance the agricultural and rural areas programmes even in 2012 despite savings targets. The public funds for agriculture are compared with the corresponding benefits of rural families for society. The compensatory payments are payment of benefits on the one hand and, on the other hand, income components for the rural families, of course. Agriculture is an important investor in rural areas. Farmers don't put their money on the high edge, but invest in their farms. I would just like to stress the figures that our colleague Jakob Auerbehörds has brought, for example, that a lot of things are going down, for example, by means of VAT. And we must not forget that there are a total of about 550 000 people in the areas of agriculture that are in stock. So this is also about jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At this point, it may also be noted that sometimes the dispute between the Chamber of Labour and the agricultural interests should be a bit more factual, for example, when I think of the 100 000 auxiliary workers, who are also mandatory members in the Chamber of Workers. One It would be desirable to discuss the subject, because the auxiliary farmers also make a significant part of the agricultural world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: It will be important for us to think together about how to deal with the challenges of the future. We are thinking solely of the development of the common agricultural policy, of the next support period 2014 to 2020. I think it makes sense to work together and not against each other.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51576	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schickhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51597	Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that together we can be proud that we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Together we can be proud that we have one of the best social and health systems worldwide, and we can also be proud that we are pioneers in Europe in the sense of sustainable organic farming. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I thank our farmers for the high-quality products they produce and for the important area of landscape care they provide in an excellent way. This week, we have also agreed on a debt brake. In the field of executives there has been a major administrative reform on rail, and I am Jacob Auersehr is grateful that he has spoken for the Farmers' Federation and has also agreed to negotiate a redeployment levy and thus an asset tax. I believe it is important that we discuss properly necessary savings measures, administrative reforms, as we have done in the executive now, but on the other hand we also discuss income in the asset field. That's the point. That's what it's all about. If a farmer manages his land, he should also be able to generate a corresponding income. However, it should not be the case that those farmers or other people who are rich in a agricultural land worth €4 in a city and who have a value of €130. We have had this ourselves in the city of Weiz: A meadow on which feed has been produced has been relocated in the land. It was 10,000 square meters, the increase in value was € 1 million, and no taxes were paid for it. I am very grateful that we can negotiate together in this direction. Of course, we also need to discuss distribution justice within the agricultural sector, because there is an average assets of €368 000 for farmers, an average money of €62 000 for farmers. It would be very misleading to me if I said that this is really everywhere, that each farm has an average of €62 000 of money, as it says in the Green Report. I think there's got to be a rupture. Some have to have a lot of money and others very little money, and in the sense of distribution justice, we should also consider it, constructively and together, how we can make the support programmes or incentive programmes more socially just. I think that's clear, but here's a thank you to Jakob Auer, for he said as one of the representatives of those who have an average income of €22,000: Let's discuss wealth tax! I hope that the other groups, where the average income is much higher, will also be ready to discuss asset taxes.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51655	Mr Pirklhuber spoke on an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51679	Madam President. – Mr Linder here claimed from the pult that the Greens had voted against the protection of bees in the European Parliament. I'm actually correcting: The Greens have submitted an own-initiative report in the European Parliament and an alternative resolution calling for a ban on neonicotinoids to be put in direct contact with bees, for example through flowers and contaminated water. In addition, genetically modified organisms, GMOs, in particular those producing Bt toxins and thus exerting subletal effects on bees, must be prohibited. To your conclusion, Mr Linder. So we have tabled a further resolution in the European Parliament and we have voted in favour of the protection of bees. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51712	Mr Peter Mayer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51737	Madam President. Estimated Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to thank Mr Schickhofer for his constructive speech. One should not, however, confuse income with income. My colleague Jakob Auerhat, as I think, does not mean a property tax here, but a redeployment levy, which produces justice to 95 percent of farmers who do not have the chance of their reason getting a high appreciation at night. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our farmers also need planning and reliability in the budget, because they provide a lot of services towards the protection of the countryside and the environment and the like, which are not paid off by the market. And Austria's tourism benefits greatly. It is important that active agriculture is still worth it in the future. Therefore, the logical requirement that co-financing should also be ensured for these programmes and that the budget should be presented accordingly. But there is also a commitment by agriculture to saving, to general saving, because it is the most original mentality of the farmers to make sustainable economics. And it is all the more gratifying to know that Austrian agriculture achieves new marketing successes and that Austrian food in Europe, indeed, is becoming more and more popular worldwide. Some agricultural exports have increased by 21 percent and will probably reach a value of €9 billion this year. That's important. And we have key figures here that are very remarkable. We will export 30 000 breeding cattle this year, not least because of the high quality and high veterinary standards we have developed here in Austria. Despite the EHEC scandal, we have healthy fruits and vegetables, which makes it a real salesman. And our cheese export is also huge. We have already overtaken the cheese exports of Switzerland. Now you could say: Well, then the food gets so expensive again! And who can afford that? – But if we know in the background that the average Austrian now spends more money on leisure and hobby than on food, then you can, as I mean, demand that the litre of milk or the loave of bread becomes a few cents more expensive, which will benefit the farmers. At the same time, however, I would like to thank the producer communities which allow the small-structured farmers, farmers and farmers a good market presence. It is the beef market, the pig market, the bio-organisations that combine the supply, that can achieve a corresponding market strength and offer the large corporations on the international market. And, of course, these are our agricultural cooperatives that do great work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Good market prospects are, of course, motivating young farmers to enter this profession. As a result, we have one of the highest proportions of young farmers in Europe, and this is certainly also a sign that we are on the right track here. And I say again: A real mix of measures in compensation, in processing and marketing and in training young farmers, that is the most important thing. And that is also shown in the budget accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51807	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51828	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to two points in this debate. The first point – this has been briefly addressed – is the agricultural and forestry schools, some of which are available. Also in my hometown, in the district of Freistadt, there is such training for young people. The training is very good. Nevertheless, you have to look at the costs. Our agricultural spokesman, Mr Gaßner, has already pointed this out quite specifically. Mr Minister, if you look at the criticism of the Court of Auditors in this regard, it must be noted that the costs for a student of such an institution are twice as high as those for a student of a vocational school. I therefore ask whether there is no possibility of introducing this form of education into the general education system. I think that this possibility exists, and that would be true in this case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the second point already mentioned concerns rural areas. Here the position of social democracy is very, very clear. For us, the rural area not only means agriculture or forestry and farmers, but includes all the people living in this area. And me. Think it is important to be active in rural areas beyond agriculture. It must not be that the youth migrates from the country to the city. Therefore, we need better framework conditions for start-ups. We need a better public transport network. We also need to do more for security in rural areas, and we need to start concrete projects to restore employment in rural areas for colleagues. Then the youth, I think, will not move from rural areas to the city, and that would have to be our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51871	On the sub-division of agriculture, forestry and water management, I have no further words available. We are therefore at the end of the discussions on this subject. [[16:26:56]] UG 43: Environment
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51895	We now proceed to the negotiation of subheading 43: Environment. As First of all, Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51919	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2012 environmental budget increases to € 987.5 million compared to € 845 million last year. In addition to the additional expenditure in the field of old loads, water management and radiation protection, much of the increase is due to a massive increase in CDM/JI programmes with an amount of €93.7 million. Mr Minister, the increase in these budgets for the emission certificates is, in my opinion, a nuisance. To get it to the point: Austria invests in projects abroad instead of using these funds here with us. But we have not only criticized this issue in committee, but also the Court of Auditors has already made massive criticisms, because, because of these emission certificates, there is no incentive to reduce emissions either. Therefore, a question to you: What happens, for example, to the certificates of supported programmes when the programmes are cancelled abroad? Will the certificates lose their validity? And instead of buying us free, it would be more sensible to invest this money in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the context of environmental protection, we could promote the local economy and support the sustainability of companies in Austria. This also applies to the field of photovoltaics. It is precisely where it would be useful to take action that we cannot really read something out of the budget. You said in the context of a written answer to the question, the cost allocation, the detailed planning will only succeed at the end of 2011. I would ask you to explain to us soon how much you plan to promote here. Finally, I would like to address the issue of electromobility again – not only in terms of environmental protection and the increasingly scarce resources. Discussions have now been held with the United States, the European Union and Asian countries to move more towards cooperation in this area. My question to you, Mr Minister: How will Austria get in there? We have already put a few questions here in Parliament to the President of the European Parliament and have asked us to set up an electric filling station here in Parliament. This has always been rejected with the indication that it would be too complicated and complicated and would not be demand. So I would now like you to explain to us how far this is advanced if we are now trying to continue on an international level. And I am convinced that here in Parliament, too, we should show signs of electromobility, and ask you to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e51977	Mrs Gartelgruber, I also assume with you that you will take back the word 'Frequent'. They are all familiar with these Rules of Procedure with the explanations. [[The president presented the ‘NRGO’.]] I would also like to point out that pages 467 to 469 contain the more or less disputed words and word combinations, which have been called and are likely to continue in the future. You're not taking it back? - No, I don't. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: No!]] Then I'll give you a call for order. The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Schools.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52019	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Appreciate High House! So if ladies like Mrs. Gartelgruber have to provoke an order call today, then I have to say honestly, we are not well. I'm really sorry we got that far. I don't care about some of my comrades and colleagues, but it hurts me right now. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are discussing the environment chapter on the issues dealt with in environmental policy today. These include air, water, climate protection, biodiversity, flood protection, waste management, many topics, a comprehensive programme, and everything affects the lives of our people. We are confronted with effects and successes of environmental policy on a daily basis. A topic where we are in the middle of it, which is large in front of us, is climate change, climate change and climate-damaging gases such as CO2. We know that CO2 production for all of us is cost-effective, that is, we have to buy oil, buy natural gas, burn natural gas. And this money is then largely transferred from Austria to other countries and is promoting other economies. Climate change is therefore a very expensive matter. It makes sense for us to think about what we can do differently, and that is what happens. With this budget, we use € 147 million for investment in domestic environmental promotion, targeting CO2 reduction. Through the Climate and Energy Fund, we use €84 million, targeting CO2 reduction. That we continue in this area is extremely important for all of us. We have committed ourselves by 2020 to: a share of 34 percent of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption. In 2011, in the history of Austria, we spent the most on oil imports. It's a stupid story. Although the year ahead may not go well economically, there will still be high world oil prices, and we will be even more burdened. If we increase our share of renewable energy by one percent, this means that we have to import one percent less oil. This is about 180 to 200 million €, which we can hold in Austria. These are tangible amounts that mean value added in Austria. Today, we have a share of around 28 percent, perhaps something about it, of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption. With the increase in the production of renewable energy sources in Austria over the last ten years, we have been able to build up an additional volume that saves €1.5 billion of oil imports annually. This is the success of the environmental policy of the countries, the federal government in recent years, the success of the environmental ministers, as well as of Niki Berlakovich. Ladies and gentlemen, €1.5 billion added value, which remains in Austria, because we have achieved much more in biomass because we are using bio-sprit because we are pushing out oil and diesel, that is money for Austria. It would be good if we could succeed in removing the heating oil from the basement in the future. Heating oil is diesel, and diesel and heating oil together are scarce, therefore heating oil and diesel become expensive. Every car driver pays for it at the diesel gas station because heating oil in the basement is scarce. And if we replace heating oil in the basement with other raw materials, then all in all, for our car drivers, there is an approval for diesel. It's all working together. That's necessary. Climate policy is environmental policy, and environmental policy is economic policy. Economic policy is value added. And all of this is our policy, as we appreciate it!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52077	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52098	Madam President. Minister for Agriculture! From the homage to the last environmental ministers, we have now come to the actual balance sheet of the environmental ministers of the EIA in recent years. In fact, we should discuss the environmental budget here, but unfortunately there is no longer much environmental budget here, because a third of this budget is solely for pollution rights, which is € 275 million that we pay because of the missing climate policy of the Environment Ministers, Agriculture Ministers of the ÖVP. This is what taxpayers pay. We are not the only country in the EU to achieve our climate objectives. I find this very embarrassing. This does not require a country like Austria. And the taxpayers cost it more than 1 billion €. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hornek: That's wrong!]] No, it's not wrong! It's a very easy bill, Mr Hornek. We have already paid € 531 million for the purchase of certificates, also according to Minister of Agriculture Berlakovich. For the gap we still have to fill up, €600 million is needed. 600 plus 531 are, I think, more than one billion. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Milkmaid bill!]] What Does “Milchmaid Account ” Mean? That's a simple addition. I think it's possible, even for you. That's tax money that's been thrown out. That's for nothing. First of all, it's climate-politically worrying, because we're just buying free. Climate policy is simply important – yes, Minister, I agree that is really sad. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] Climate change is one of the most serious threats of our century, and I find it irresponsible how ministers like you deal with this issue. People are already dying because of the extent of climate change, and it is our responsibility to act as one of the main causes of climate change. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That is why we are helping developing countries! That's why we invest there!]] We'll be right there! You still haven't understood. Not, we invest there, but we need to reduce our CO2 emissions, and – and, Minister, not or – help the affected regions adapt to climate change and reduce CO2. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They're still holding on to this free buy-out so we don't have to do anything here. As I said, it is not only climate-politically worrying, but also expensive. Tax payers are expensive to stand, not only that we buy certificates for nothing, but these certificates, according to reports from your own home, are more expensive than if we were to do climate protection in the country with the same money. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] That's right! According to the report on the environmental promotion programme, a tonne of CO2 savings by domestic action costs on average €6.8. If we buy certificates, the Austrian taxpayers must pay for a tonne of CO2 savings 8,99 €. So more than € 2 million in addition, so that we can hang our certificates on the wall. If we were to put in place domestic measures, it would be cheaper first and we would also have job effects, value added effects. That's not included yet. So the instrument of environmental promotion, I believe, is a very, very important one which, above all, also helps many private individuals in Austria, for example, in the conversion of heating systems, of solar systems. As the regions would benefit, there would be a lot of private profit. But your policy continues to focus less on climate protection issues, where very few Austrian companies – which is also to be read from your report – really benefit. This is money burning and climate-politically irresponsible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The spirals are also turning on, because this, of course, means that we need to invest more and more, because if we don't have to achieve our goals, we don't achieve the next goals again, and that's what's going on all the time. This is also reflected in the budget: In 2010, €66 million were estimated for the free purchase, €89 million in 2011, and €183 million in 2012. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] This is a global climate change failure and financial debacle and will continue to be a financial debacle in the future. [[Abg. Hornek: Is that what the magistrate has to answer?]] It is so – and this is at all the worst in the environmental budget – that this not only goes in the completely wrong direction in the climate policy, but it is also financed by the environmental budget. The Austrian taxpayers pay €92 million for the CO2 emissions of industry. To this end: The industry should pay for this emissions itself – and if this is already paid, then not from environmental resources, because then the taxpayer will pay twice: on the one hand, pollution, and on the other hand, he will be allowed to pay for the damage. In my opinion, this is a scandal and your statement in the Committee on Budgets that you have the right to get out of the environmental budget, a total task. You are responsible for the environment, Mr Minister, and with your budget you have to finance environmental protection measures rather than climate pollution. In connection with the Emissions Certificate Act, you have left out a huge chance. It was previously the talk of the conversion of plants operated by heating oil. In future, 3 billion € will be received from industry due to changed framework conditions from certificate trading, namely 3 billion € from 2013 to 2020. We have calculated this, with these €3 billion we could make Austria oil boiler-free. An oil boiler exchange programme could be created for the Austrian households so that they can finally get away from it, not only from unnecessary CO2 emissions, but also from high heating prices. I now ask you, Minister of Agriculture, to get away from the level of speech bubbles and headlines in your statements. [[Abg. Hornek: Tell you something about the co-responsibility of Mr. Anschhober, a sentence! Also to Vienna!]] – We are happy to talk about the co-responsibility of Mr Anschober, because in Upper Austria, economic growth and CO2 emissions have decoupled. The Minister cannot present this report. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] I call on you to finally get away from your PR stories and speech bubbles, to pursue serious climate policy – the climate conference in Durban is at the doorstep, it is about very, very much – and to change the course in Austrian climate protection policy. [[Abg. Hornek: That's warm air!]] It needs pioneering roles in international climate protection. Austria would have any potential in this regard, and Austria is therefore also very responsible. I therefore urge you to finally assume this responsibility. [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes, exactly!]] By the way, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52303	Mr Weninger is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52324	Madam President. Mr Umweltminister! Mrs Finanzminister! High house! It cannot be disputed that Austria is an environmental model country. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Lap.]] This is due, on the one hand, to decades of environmental policy operating in Austria. I remember the time of my childhood and youth – it's been a while since I said decades of environmental policy – at that time in the era Kreisky was discussed about the water quality of the Austrian lakes. [[Abg. May. Brunner: But this has been a long time since!]] Anyone can admire and marvel at the Austrian environment and its situation when he comes back from a country that is still so beautiful in the world after his visit. But it is also important to thank the local authorities, for example, which contribute a lot to making our places, cities and communities very beautiful, well maintained and environmentally friendly. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, environmental policy demands have increased dramatically in recent years. I refer – and this is positive – to the anti-CFC consensus that exists in Austria, but with regard to the challenges in genetic engineering, for example, we are still at the beginning. It is a difficult and important task of Austrian environmental policy – similar to the anti-CFC policy – to work towards a non-genocidal Austria. The same applies to the challenge of energy efficiency, to which my colleagues will come to speak. Some remarks to the Climate Change Act, because this was strongly criticised in the debate. I take an opinion from an Austrian weekly newspaper from a national financial officer, I quote: From 2013 onwards, we will have to pay for CO2 certificates, which is why measures must also be taken to reduce CO2 emissions. Mr Umweltminister, I believe that this is a first political recognition of the countries – I assume, including the municipalities – that they must join forces with the federal government, as the countries and communities will also be involved in implementing the necessary climate change measures in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! The joint anti-CFC course, carried by the High House and implemented by the Austrian Federal Government, will also receive full support for social democracy as well as a commitment to all areas of the energy transition, on the one hand, to protect the environment, on the other, in order to strengthen Austria's international role as a country that would have the opportunity not to be final in the environmental and climate sphere, but to be a model. This is our effort, and I hope that we can reach political consensus on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52373	Mr Mag. Widmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52394	Madam President. High house! Yes, you have to think a little bit, even at the SPÖ and at the ÖVP. The times of reorganizing environmental protection were correct and important when it came to cleaning up water when it came to rehabilitating the air, but there was a paradigm change. In the future, we will need to invest more in climate protection and energy autarchy, energy policy, and that will be expensive if we take the wrong path. And so far, this government unfortunately is a wrong path for God. I can only remind you of this: So far, we have invested around 1.1 percent of GDP in environmental measures. In order to achieve the goals of climate change that we have set ourselves by 2020, we need to invest around 2 percent. But only for climate action! However, the EU Commission assumes a factor of 0.32 percent, i.e. about one tenth of what one spends more. There's something out of the way. What do I want to go out on? – The environmental budget rose from € 845 million to € 987 million. This could be positive for the time being, but at the second glance – the colleague before me has already mentioned it – it can be seen that € 275 million is spent only on pollution rights. So one third of the environmental budget is spent only on pollution rights abroad. I am therefore in the JI/CDM programme, which alone increases from € 87 million to € 183 million in 2012, but also on the topic of “flexible reserve”. The benefits of this "flexible reserve" are three major energy suppliers, which we have given an advance in this regime for the next period and which will be used for this purpose. €90 million, which the new EU directives no longer support. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the money returns to the taxpayer and flows into the state fund, but this is not the case. This path, which was taken here, was criticized by many and was clearly wrong. The bad thing is, with these payments, free purchases and certificates we do not make it. There is a total of €300 to €500 million that we need to spend in addition. Another number also scares me: For JI/CDM we spend EUR 183 million, for the KLI.EN, the climate fund, which achieved a slight increase, we spend by almost €100 million less, only € 84 million used for climate protection measures in Austria. So far, we have bought around 9 million tons a year from the JI/CDM programme, in five years that is 45 million. That is, by 2012 costs of approximately € 550 million will be charged, and that is not enough for Weitem to close the Kyoto gap, I have already said it. We will then need some ten thousand million tonnes to cover this, and you, Mr Environment Minister, and also you, Mrs Finanzminister, have not taken care of this in the budget. That means in the clear text: On the one hand, we will pay for the Euro Rescue Screen, for Greece and on the other hand for pollution rights and also for the Gap, for the gap, in connection with the achievement of Kyoto targets. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It would be much more difficult and intelligent to use this money at last to bring Austria step by step towards energy autarchy, to invest in it and thus to create jobs here in order to finally get rid of foreign exchange flows created by the import of expensive oil and gas. There are many strategies, up to more energy efficiency and renewable energies. There's a lot too little going on. On nuclear policy: This government is actually a permanent sleeper in terms of nuclear policy. Yes, there is consensus here in the House, but when it comes to representing the interests of Austria in Brussels, then we have no more consensus, then there is a standstill on the part of the government parties. I am in the European Parliament once or twice a year in Brussels when it comes to energy, and I am always very clear what Austria stands for, and I am also opposed to nuclear power there, and I am very much missing this from the Federal Government. Mr Environment Minister, when Commissioner Oettinger in his Energy Roadmap 2050 speaks of the need for nuclear power to play a significant role, I wonder if he did not understand the signs of time after Fukushima. People don't want it anymore, people want it out of nuclear power. Nor can it be that, on the one hand, we have to send our tax fees for certificates abroad and thus drive climate protection forward, but on the other hand, we have to watch how atomic clouds come from abroad and not talk to us. This cannot be done, because we must face up to it and make sure that this form of energy use in Europe is in the future a European question and not a national question. Or: What did you do to Temelín? – There is a unanimous national Council decision, and you have done nothing to this day. The peoples... Court of Justice has never been brought in! What has this government at Mochovce, at Krško? – She watched, she didn’t do anything! You haven't done anything about the duration of the German nuclear power plants – which is absolutely absolute in the meantime. All these are things you've slept. Consider also the question of liability for nuclear power plants, where this government in Brussels has not made itself strong, that it must finally be introduced in order to create cost-effectiveness. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Among other important issues in environmental protection, including the renovation, are the old loads: While they have enforced the commitment of the ALSAG contribution, there are around 40 million missing in order to clean up old load sites accordingly. For the thermal renovation, Mr Mitterlehner told us today that we are just putting the money on hold. You must therefore consider changing the funding guidelines so that you really make a programme that brings much more to your feet than € 100 million a year. The ads have already been addressed in the agricultural sector today, and I could now also give many examples of the environment. Mr Minister, we do not need a picture book minister, where you laugh through pictures and advertisements from the newspaper, but we need actions, we need concrete steps for the environment to bring Austria forward in the energy sector and also in climate protection, and we expect that from you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the future, in addition to these classic topics of energy and climate protection, it will also be a question of maintaining the freedom of genetic engineering in agriculture, and of anchoring it legally – but nothing has been done either. The issue of soil protection has not yet been addressed; it is also an important topic for the future. “Raus out of Atom” I mentioned. And finally, of course, again the call for a massive expansion of renewable energy in Austria through KLI.EN and many other measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52504	Mr Rädler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52525	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Widmann, we are proud of our „picture book ministers“, the picture book environmental policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Brunner... – Mrs Brunner is now. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] My colleague, Mr Brunner, is seeking not only to talk about environmental policy, but also to practice it. It would be very nice if you could come out and say: Yes, I have in my house a solar system, a photovoltaic system! I have never heard of this before, Mrs Colleague. Do you practice that? – Perhaps you can answer this question in your next speech. I can tell you: I have a solar system, I have a photovoltaic system. I practice environmental protection and ask you to answer this question next time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] Mr Weninger here quoted the “Nelderreichische Nachrichten”, the pink leaf. You, colleague Weninger, are SPÖ's environmental spokesperson, but you have not noticed what happened in Lower Austria, that's what happened to you, how so much happens to you and Sepp Leitner in Lower Austria, and actually to all of you. Lower Austria is a pioneer in environmental policy, you need to know. [[Abg. Bucher: Debt icons from Austria!]] You didn't do anything, but you were a clubman at the SPÖ in the country day, so you should still know! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In Lower Austria, we generate 90 percent of our electricity from renewable energy. In 2015, it will be 100 percent. - You don't know all that! In 2025, we will generate 50 percent of our energy from renewable energy! And you present here the pink leaf in which nothing is in it. What that was, I don't know, but that's the SPÖ Lower Austria. [[Abg. Wenninger: But that will be the ÖVP Lower Austria!]] Now on environmental policy: 1 billion in the new environmental budget are 4 billion... – I don't need that, don't you hear me? [[The speaker turned one of the microphones aside.]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is a microphone!]] I think you hear me, right? – They know what I’m saying! €4 billion in environmental investments – 45 000 jobs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The people on this side hear nothing!]] This is not only an ecological effect, it is not only an effect in the field of climate protection, but also, in reality, an economic programme implemented here. I only make the thermal renovation: 5 million, 100 million a year... – 100 million a year for thermal rehabilitation actually bring 400 million investments a year in the field of thermal rehabilitation. [[Call the SPÖ: What now?]] We have only 250 000 old buildings in need of renovation in Lower Austria, since we will be able to do something with thermal renovation. We have reversed housing support – Mr Wenninger, that has also gone away from you. Last time you said that the photovoltaic plants in Lower Austria would no longer be promoted. The thermal renovation has completely passed you, the new housing development model! These are investments in the future. Lower Austria is a model in the environmental field. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And the federal policy with our Environment Minister, whom we can be proud of, contributes to this. And I do not want to mention the word with the “biber ” today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52661	Now comes Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52682	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! As in the agricultural sector, it was also important in the environmental field to continue a successful course in Austria. We are an environmental model country, but that does not mean that we have the opportunity to rest on the laurels, but we want to develop them further, secure them and get even better in many areas. The environmental budget was increased by 17 percent at a time marked by the need for savings. This was a great effort to secure future investment in our livelihoods, on the one hand in climate protection, on the other hand also in the anti-atomic course, in the expansion of renewable energies, but also in other important areas, such as water supply, wastewater disposal, waste management. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Where is this reflected in the budget?]] [[Abg. Rädler: That's it!]] Mrs Colleague, do you know what your problem is, what is the problem of the Greens? – They are absolutely one-dimensional. They go out here and talk only about climate protection, as if environmental policy were. This is a part of environmental policy, but environmental policy is much wider, and you have not even mentioned the rest. That's not true, and it's sad if you're ashamed. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Because the environmental budget is blocked with it!]] I am not ashamed of Austria's environmental model country, on the contrary! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That we have top values in wastewater disposal, in water supply, from source and groundwater have a water supply when you turn up a tap, not only in the countryside, but also in the city, and that water can consume, in the waste management world status, where much of the waste is recycled, and similar things – this is a merit of decades of construction work that we can be proud of together, federal government, countries and communities – we do not let ourselves talk bad! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was therefore important to me that we make choices, finance the environment in the country, and ensure the work of the Climate and Energy Fund in 2012. The buying thing is – and I try to represent it – that the environment and the economy are compatible. Ecology and economics are no different. In the past, investment in the environment has been felt to the detriment of the economy. Today we show that both are going to be the environment that needs the economy – and reverses it. Green jobs are the answer to that, showing that we can generate economic growth if we invest in the environment and also in climate protection, and this is what it is about to do for Austria. We have dealt with some 200 000 people in the area of green jobs, with a perspective of another 100 000 workers over the next ten years, set out in the 'Master Plan green jobs' which we prepared in the previous year, with a hundred experts, the social partners from the economic sectors, where we want to achieve this by investing in the environment and climate protection. Concrete: In addition to the measures for individual or private investment, environmental promotion also refers to thermal renovation – which has already been addressed by the previous speakers –: 100 million € as an impulse for the regional economy. The money often remains the regional economy, as €100 million generate €700 million in investment and create or secure more than 10,000 jobs. Classic Green jobs are created by the renovation of living space. €50 million is available to my house, €50 million to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We do this together according to the motto: Those who invest more in the environment get more. Mrs. Colleague! It is also very likely to include a boiler exchange. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] If you switch your heating system to an alternative heating system, there is a grant. In addition, the Climate and Energy Fund has its own transport rail outside the thermal renovations through which a boiler exchange is promoted. I agree with Mr Schultes that it does not make much sense to exchange an oil boiler for an oil boiler – absolutely! This only shows that we need to go more far, that in some areas the institutions that do this must be better and that their responsibilities, which they have in total for Austria, must also be taken into account. In any case, the aim is to increase the recovery rate from 1 percent to 3 percent by 2020 – as in many other areas. To the JI/CDM program, the evil, evil program, within which we invest abroad in evil: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber]] I think it is very strange that it is so criticized by the Greens. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Brunner and Mag. Schwentner.]] Do you know what I'm doing with the JI/CDM program? – I carry out Parliament’s legal mandate by investing in climate protection projects. This is part of the Austrian strategy. [[Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Gartelgruber.]] Of course, the majority of the money is invested in Austria – clearly –; in the medium-sized economy, in tourism. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Schwentner and Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The regional economy is particularly benefiting from thermal renovation, but also the developing countries under the JI/CDM programme. You stand here and say that people in the developing countries are ruining, you have to do something. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Brunner and Mag. Schwentner.]] If we invest in the developing countries, in renewable energy, this is bad. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You have to decide what you want. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: You have to decide!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The JI/CDM programme is an international programme, in which other countries also participate and through which we also induce economic growth. But we do not do this exclusively abroad. Again: I am always surprised that you are still riding around on this issue, that we are investing abroad in evil. [[Abg. May. Brunner: No, this is your...!]] I wouldn't have expected it from you, maybe from another side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any case, there is also an international commitment to climate protection. Just as it is in the nuclear cloud, if – God preserve! – something happens, it's climate protection. If we support elsewhere – international solidarity – this also uses something in climate change. There is therefore an investment in the climate and energy funds, it will be increased by 9 million, and we support the promotion of photovoltaics. We have never made as much money available to private households as this year so that they can invest in photovoltaics. To the energy efficiency check: Energy saving, energy efficiency is a very important contribution at all to achieve Austria's energy autarchy. For SMEs, there is this energy efficiency check, but also for agricultural and forestry farms, so that they can save energy. The electromobility has already been mentioned. We work on the Master Plan Electric Mobility. This is an important area to make transport more environmentally friendly, as it remains the main issue of harmful greenhouse gases. There is a program to expand fast charging stations in the electromobility area: 1 000 fast charging stations are to be requested, over 380 have already been applied for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer]] I have launched the climate and energy model regions programme, of which many cities and communities in Austria say different political couleurs want – like Güssing – to become energy-autarchy in their region. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: And what about...?]] To all those who speak: Of course, this is a per-balance energy autarchy according to the Güssinger model. It is not true that every municipality, every city, is a Gallic village. That's not what no one says, nor does science that has prepared the energy autarchy study on my behalf – Universität Innsbruck, TU Wien, TU Graz. Of course, Austria is an open system in the European community, but by the balance of energy, to reduce harmful greenhouse gases by giving up fossil energy imports and substituting them, replacing them with domestic energy sources, I recognize, and that makes sense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer]] 66 regions with 773 Communities already follow this model. The best thing about this is – at least I hear it from the regions – that it is not only about the question of energy security, but also about regional development. Cities and communities work together, as we want in rural development, in the agricultural sector, and as we do here. This brings a lot to the regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I mentioned the protection against natural hazards; for example, in this year we implemented 1,900 projects to ensure the quality of life of people. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This is also a part of environmental policy, Mrs Brunner! We invest not only in the high alpine or alpine areas, but also in the flat land, in security, in what people have developed to protect the good and the good – and also lives. We know that climate change is increasing the extreme weather events, so it is important to invest here. Thank you to the countries and communities for making this partnership. It also makes sense to bear responsibility here together – up to the waste management. I would like to take a special part. [[Call the Greens.]] The Ministry of Life supports the film “Taste the Waste”, which shows that huge quantities of food are being thrown away. It's about raising consciousness. It is not about moralizing with the index finger, but about making people aware that they are sometimes spending a lot of money on food, which will then be thrown away unconsumed – in some cases they have not even expired. This creates huge amounts of waste that are unnecessary, and on the other hand, people starve. That is why I started the “food is precious” initiative. We continue to raise this awareness, especially the farmers support it, but we will do more to avoid discarding food and to raise awareness of the people affected because it saves money in the final effect if it does not spend money on food that then land in the trash. The climate initiative “climate:aktiv” within which we are currently consulting cities, communities and companies – in terms of mobility, house building, passive house technology – will continue. All of this is areas where we want to use the new technologies to improve our policy – climate change targets. No one argues that we need to put forth more effort in these areas. That is why it was the intention of the Climate Change Act – and I am concerned; I am grateful that Parliament has finally decided – to get the countries into the boat so that we can make a consistent climate policy and improve ourselves. That's a clear point. Anti-atomic policy: This is also an important part of the Austrian Federal Government's action plan, in which we also make progress, for example. Remember the stress tests, an Austrian initiative to review all nuclear power plants – for the first time after a single European system! So far, this has not been the case; so far, each state has controlled its own nuclear power plants. In cooperation with the European Commission, this is now working in a uniform manner. Many have said that it is nothing anyway, it is a persillic for the atomic lobby and there is no independence. We have succeeded in bringing together two independent Austrian experts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] They are involved when the national reports are controlled. They also drive with independent teams to the countries and control the cars there. [[New call of the abg. May. Brunner.]] This is an Austrian success that we see how we shape Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, because you have addressed it, on genetic engineering or genetic engineering freedom: We have discussed this in the context of the debate on agriculture. The Austrian position is to remain free of genetic engineering in agriculture. That's what consumers want. I have enforced the initiative for a right of self-determination in the field of genetic engineering at European level, because the Commission has incorporated this into its programme. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] It is now up to Commissioner for Health Dalli to anchor it in EU law at European level. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But it is not...!]] We support the Commissioner, but in the end it is up to the Commission to convince the other Member States to adopt EU law. Austria fully supports this. There are some who do not want that, but that is also part of our environmental policy. In conclusion: The environmental budget secures us the way to energy autarchy and to ensure the quality of life now and for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52954	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e52983	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The University of Linz has found in a study that Austria's economy suffers greatly from the massive support of the nuclear current in Europe by means of subsidies, which, of course, also has an impact on the price in Austria. Nuclear power is heavily supported by under-insurance of liability at European level and thus has an enormous advantage. This inequality is reinforced by the fact that we also pay for it through the Euratom Treaty. I am therefore seeking to consider whether Austria cannot intervene here, because there is a fundamental consensus in this House to oppose nuclear power. At the latest since Zwentendorf, we have approved of this dangerous energy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Europe-wide uniform and strict liability rules for nuclear power plants can eliminate this inequality. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals have launched an initiative and are trying to explain how insurance companies in Austria regulate it. We have sent letters to the respective insurance companies of the Free Youth ring, the Free Trade Association and the Free Farmers, and they have confirmed to us in writing that there is no insurance against damage caused by nuclear power plants in Austria. This, ladies and gentlemen, shows us how dangerous this form of energy and its extraction is, because if even the biggest insurances do not make a corresponding guarantee declaration in the form of liability, then you can imagine how the risk actually stands. At the end of my remarks, give me an opportunity to deal with another situation that has taken place in the media today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rudas and Mr Oellinger have today blamed our colleague Kickl for incredible things in an incredible human hatred about the media. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The whole House was witness to his statements, and the minutes also confirmed that Mr Kickl did not make any dissenting statements in any form. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This approach – via the media – is really inhumane. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I would ask you, Mrs Rudas, if you should at least be in the House these days – and not just on Löwelstraße – to apologise to Mr Kickl in every form. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It is incredible what you have here given of yourself in the protection of immunity and what claims you have made here in the form of obscene untruths. If you cannot understand meaningfully, coherently, then leave this High House, then you have not lost anything here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53092	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53149	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53171	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Total expenditure in the environmental budget is around 142 million higher than in the 2011 estimate. Apart from thermal renovation, the funding for environmental and climate protection measures is essentially remained unchanged. In my opinion, this is rightly criticized by the Austrian Federal Chamber of Labour. The finding that domestic environmental promotion is an efficient instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and, at the same time, very cost-effective cannot, of course, be rejected. The promotion of climate-related measures and green jobs in Austria – and this has just been mentioned by Environment Minister Berlakovich – is not only environmental policy, but also labour market policy of greatest relevance. The planned funding for the operation and expansion of various national parks such as Hohe Tauern, Gesäuse and so on ensure the preservation of our unique natural landscapes. Although the financial resources in this budget can – and this is positive – be used to implement a number of measures to protect climate. It is already known to all of us, however, that high investments are needed for environmental and climate protection measures and that the 2012 budget could therefore have higher approaches. As I have repeatedly pointed out, environmental protection is an issue for all of us, but at the same time we have to promote our energy-intensive businesses for economic and labour market reasons, such as the voestalpine, which has come across the limits of its CO2 optimization for technological reasons. Our primary goal must be to create optimal synergies of economic and environmental benefits in order to leave a viable environment for our coming generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53213	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53234	Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister has today offered a really strange spectacle, I must say that already. It is really embarrassing if, apart from words, an environmental minister gives an objectively comprehensible answer to no question raised by my colleague Brunner. Unfortunately, I have to find out with disappointment. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] He accuses us – the Green standard – that we are one-dimensional in the consideration of environmental policy. Federal Minister! That's what you said from the pult. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] If you believe that you can implement climate change by sprinkling grains, food, introducing E10 – for that you run up land, land down, that we have 10 per cent grain in the car; that's what you want, you stand for it; You have not said a word about this, but the negotiations are under way, you are committed to it – then I tell you very clearly and clearly: This is not an environmental policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And that is anything but efficient. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] An English study clearly says: Agrofuels even have a negative climate balance, based on indirect land use changes, leading to 0.3 to 0.5 million tonnes more CO2 emissions per year in Austria. This has been calculated in an English study for each EU Member State. For Austria, this leads to more CO2 and not less CO2. It's written to you once in the main book! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Then please present the facts and tell us exactly what it is about! [[Call the ÖVP: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber! ... minus 50 percent!]] One point – the colleague mentioned earlier – is right: Environmental support in the country – and we welcome this, we have always said this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – actually has labour market effects, especially when properly implemented. We discussed domestic environmental promotion in the last committee in 2010. The effect was: plus 5,600 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely this strategy that we should drive and not use a third of the environmental funding – in this case the environmental budget – for free purchase, so that we can allow more pollution for industry and for various other areas in Austria. For this we invest in various international projects. Some of these projects may be good. We are not generally opposed to investment in projects abroad, but we are opposed to the fact that they are, so to speak, offset as a compensation for negative climate work, for a negative environmental policy that we do not make. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You've heard that the costs are higher. The cost per tonne of CO2 saved is €9, if you invest abroad, and €6, if you invest domestically. This was very well deduced from the environmental report. These are reports from your ministry, from good officials and from departments that have looked closely at things. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is why it is really sad, and my colleague is perfectly right: We need an independent and independent Ministry of the Environment, which is also capable of occasionally getting to positions where another department says that this is a position that we certainly do not share. Then we are talking about discourse, negotiation skills and the ability to reach a compromise, but this minister has never made a similar presentation. Let's take the Ecostrom Act, let's take the anti-atomic policy! Where's your call for nuclear imports? What are your strategies to actually stop nuclear imports? From our point of view, this would be an absolutely legitimate claim for an Environment Minister, a necessary requirement to be implemented. A point on genetic engineering policy: You are right to say that we have worked in all our possible networks – the non-genotechnic regions, Austria, the Austrian Parliament, you as ministers – for this right of free genetic engineering cultivation in Europe, in Austria. The fact is, this draft is currently in place. It is important that the European Parliament and the Council reach a compromise, and there is currently this draft. There is currently no legal regulation at European level which guarantees us this right. I urge you once again that you do not feel sorry about it and not say that everything has already been resolved, but that you deal with the problems where they are, and at last help to ensure that this, as it were, still approach to genetic engineering freedom in Europe will finally be law. That is what we want, and that is what we expect from an environmental minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53324	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53347	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! I give Mr Weninger the right to say: We're an environmental model country. We have nearly 1 billion environmental budgets – 17 percent more than last year – 147 million for environmental investment promotions, 84 million for the KLI, more than 200 000 Green jobs. We support the protection against natural hazards with 154 million; 100 million are available for thermal renovation and 350 million € for urban water construction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When I think about what we have in the Zillertal everything from wastewater cleaning up to 2,200 meters: All ski resorts are connected to the sewage facilities, we have drinking water in all streams. What we need is snow and cold nights. What I need would be speaking time, and it's already over. Good evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53384	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53405	Mr President. Minister! “Mr. Bildbuchminister of the Environmental Pattern Country” must already be called him, and I would also like to mention the fairytale narrator Hörl. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Well, please! Speaking of the “environmental pattern country”, ladies and gentlemen, if Austria does not even reach the Kyoto goals – you really cannot do that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can do it, but that's very cool! If € 275 million, a third of the total budget, is spent on pollution certificates, then this is truly no reason to celebrate and truly no reason to be proud of being a “environmental model minister” or “picture book minister”, Mr Minister! I have to give that to you now. But your statements from the past also remind me of your predecessor, I would say once, of your luckless predecessor Pröll, who said in an interview in 2008 – I would like to quote him –: “More optimism is announced. We will be able to make a point landing. In the finish we create the goals”. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we now look at the Kyoto targets and look at the state of action, this was not a landing of points, but rather a breach landing, which has been laid down here and which you, Mr Minister, unfortunately continue to do. Austrian taxpayers receive huge payments! Mr Brunner has also done this: 1 billion fines will be expected if we do not achieve the objectives. The Austrian taxpayers get deeper and deeper into the bag. If I may mention Euratom again: More than €40 million will be paid for Euratom. This money could be much better invested in Austria for renewable energy, as we have already called for in the form of a request, very often, what we will continue to do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53454	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53478	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot in this debate. I would like to address two more points. First of all: It is very gratifying that 100 million € are available for the thermal renovation – that has been mentioned very briefly. I think that this is extremely important and useful for the environment, but ultimately also for the jobs which it will ensure and will be created in the future. Minister! A second point to which I have already raised a question in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It has addressed anti-atomic policies, in particular the activities of countless initiatives, citizens' initiatives and NGOs in this direction. I am in the district of Freistadt at home, there are a number of activities there. As far as the activities of the Czech Republic in particular with Temelín are concerned, I would like to thank the activists very much, very much for their commitment, for the awareness-building that is being promoted in the population there! Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, these activities, these environmental initiatives, with a total of €95 000 – I asked – were supported. On the basis of my question at the last committee meeting, Mr Minister, in the future, an amount of €85 000 is planned, which means a reduction of at least 10 percent. Perhaps you can rethink this point together. I think these organizations, these NGOs, really deserved it. You are volunteering around the clock, and we also need these activities. So I really want you to think about it again.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53511	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53532	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs Finanzminister! We have been discussing the environmental budget for a long time. I mean, it is a very well-educated environmental budget, which enables us to continue our successful path in environmental and climate protection policy so far, especially to make important investments in the future and thus create valuable and important green jobs. It is really a very encouraging budget! This benefits, on the one hand, the environment, benefits the economy, but also benefits workers through these created and secured jobs. I would like to take this debate a little bit to question the seriousness of the debate of the Greens in the field of climate change and the environment. They are constantly producing themselves here and in the committee, bringing populist demands, increasing to attack our successful Federal Minister, and making excessive proposals that only lead to one, namely, in case of doubt, to endanger jobs. I think we can really give up on that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I wonder how you understand the word “green jobs”. I think the only green jobs that you intend to secure are your green armchairs here in the National Council, but none in the economy that are being lurked in the environmental field. That's really hard to see. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] They always accuse our Federal Minister that he is also taking very important measures in public relations. I'm wondering – and I'm asking I myself am from Upper Austria – as it looks when a Green Council of State is responsible for environmental protection. There have also been populist PR measures. For example, he – and there is always a big face on it – advertises the “meat Friday”. I'm wondering what's next; probably the Spinatknödel Monday! You can't watch that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this budget, we set out key measures for the expansion of renewable energy, for increasing energy efficiency, for thermal renovation and for climate protection. This budget is a good one for the environment, for climate protection, and we are proud that we have a minister who, by means of the available resources, also sets out useful measures. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53593	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53614	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is a good thing, Mr Hammer, that I can speak for you, because especially Upper Austria shows how good environmental policy is in the green hand, so to speak, what was created at Ecojobs there – together with Mr Landeshuptmann, together with the ÖVP Group – which is being driven on to environmental technology, which was developed there in the direction of thermal renovation on pilot projects. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Please, that is exactly what the Federal Minister always calls for under the great title “Green Jobs and Eco-Offensives”. We practice it on the spot. There's nothing to do with all your criticism, because you come from the federal state yourself, where you can see it every day – every day! If I can already talk about these green success projects on site, I also say: At the federal level – if I listen to today's contributions to thermal renovation, at least three or four of the SPÖ's colleagues have addressed this success story, they have asked for it more strongly; as well as thermal rehabilitation: at least three, four ÖVP-Redners; we have already started in 2000 with proposals, with projects, with applications, with concrete examples – I am grateful if this is now general consensus and general programme. Mr. Minister, as far as these 100 million are concerned, there were several green lines behind it. Now I'm glad they're going to continue again, be resumed after a break. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the other hand, Mr. Minister, we see a great drops of wormwood. I certainly praise many things in environmental policy – not a question, you now have a bigger budget – but our great advertising drop is really your basic philosophy of climate protection! That's the basic philosophy that's called: The purchase of certificates and emissions trading, but not the most important investment in their own areas and improvement on the ground. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] This is your priority number one, unfortunately also seen from the budget figures. I only calculate it according to the budget figures: Unfortunately, this priority is the purchase of certificates and unfortunately lies with this emissions trading. That's a mistake! I can now give you another example from the “South German newspaper” of how free allocations of emission rights to companies that were then resold really led to an additional profit of these companies. Yes, this is also a negative side of emissions trading. I am quite clear that this is an EU model – but you should work for a better EU model. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, Minister: We have a common approach in our view of the problem of transport. They say again and again that CO2 emissions are rising and not falling there, as is actually the main field of work for climate protection when it comes to reducing CO2. I would rather talk about energy efficiency, better use of energy to achieve the same result. What do we have in the area of transport, where you are unfortunately too weak? – We do not have any additional order promotion especially for innovative transport offers in the flat country, so where your clients are located, so to speak, no additional order promotions. We do not have tolls in the sub-inntal for the shift to the rails, wherever you are, because we have to bring freight transports to the rails. What else do we have? – Mrs Finanzminister, thank God you sit there. It is indeed true that truck car tax revenue is reduced by 10 percent, Mrs Minister. Unfortunately, this is your anti-environmental budget, tax and financial policy. It's counterproductive! That is why we cannot agree with your budget, although some approaches are quite welcome. Finally, we can only ask: Minister, come on. You often go to Upper Austria, take a look off! The ÖVP is also cooperative there, it could be at federal level as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53678	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53699	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the previous item on the agenda, many speakers have repeatedly stressed the importance of rural areas. As mayor of a rural community, I can also take part in this debate here. Yes, Mr. Federal Minister, I am with you when you say: We are an exemplary model country, especially in the rural regions, in the municipalities. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Hornek.]] In recent years and decades, a lot of money has been pumped into the construction of infrastructure in our communities by the federal government, countries and communities. I think we can be international here and be proud of the conditions in our communities. But it is also a fact that we are getting bigger and bigger problems in these rural regions, because our young people in particular are moving out of the valleys into the centres and on the other hand the costs of infrastructure are always the same. There will be fewer and fewer people who have to pay these infrastructure costs, thus increasing in proportion to the fees. And we in the communities are constantly being tried to get up with the fees, just because we have to take care of a balanced household legally. That is why, Mr Minister, but especially Mrs Finanzminister, it would really be time for the next financial compensation to be for the communities, the rural regions, so that we can also create living conditions in the regions in the future. I'm asking for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53747	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53769	Mr President. High house! Unfortunately, the financial crisis has put a big problem in the background. [[Abg. Rädler: That's what the federal partyobmann said!]] We discussed climate change intensively about a year ago in this House. Unfortunately, much has happened since then, also in the international financial system, and climate change has come into the background. [[Abg. Riepl: Please say something positive! Just once!]] But he remains a real threat, and he remains a real threat because experts say it's even worse on and on than we've suspected. There has been a time, there have also been some of the ÖVP still said, one, two years ago: Yeah, it won't be as bad as many people believe. – In the meantime we know that it will be even worse than many believe! It has been assumed that the Arctic will be ice-free in about 2050; now the experts are saying that this will be the case already in 2030. There's a lot of people now who believe: That's nice anyway; if the Arctic is ice-free, we might be able to drill for oil there. They may believe that. – But the others know that when the permafrost floors open there, so much CO2 and so much methane will be freed that climate change will not be stopped! That is, if we do not create it by 2020, 2030, to limit the increase in world temperature to plus 2 degrees, so if it continues by plus 3, plus 4 degrees, as it is at the moment, then we will not be able to do anything about it from 2020 onwards, starting in 2030. That means, then we can leave all cars in the garages, turn off the heaters and everything else – it won't help anything anymore! The train then left. That is why there is a Kyoto Protocol, in which everyone has committed themselves to making an appropriate contribution. It may be that Austria is a small twatch country that cannot contribute much, but it is an act of fairness to say: We have committed ourselves and, as a former model country, we should really stick to our commitments. We shouldn't just say: We're such a small country, it doesn't matter if we don't stick to it, they're supposed to stick to it. – We too must make a contribution if we do not want to be guilty of the disasters that come upon us. And there are disasters coming upon us! That's why: If I hear here that we are an environmental model country, and the Minister also says, yes, climate change, that is such a margin, in the case of waste, in the water and elsewhere, we are quite excellent, and climate change is also part of it, then I say to you one thing: [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not what anyone says!]] Water and waste, this is also very important – but climate change will decide whether our prosperity is still sustainable in 50, 60 years. Because one thing is also quite certain: If climate change comes as the experts fear, then our entire world financial system, our financial and economic system will collapse! There will be Bible abuses, there will be problems that we cannot even imagine today. Therefore, climate change is not a side-by-side scene. If you send out your jubilants from the ÖVP and the SPÖ out here today, Mr. Minister, who likes everything very much, then I can only say one thing: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] Them miss! We should be so honest here today, to say openly: Yes, there is a problem, and the problem is that we don't get under control of CO2 emissions. That's the problem, we should be so honest. Come on. Get out! I hope that another government trusts in accepting the problem and saying: Yeah, we're finally on the CO2 balance, yes, we've done too little, and now let's all get something in the way here together, that we can still get it. – But unfortunately this does not happen! The Minister is a great football player, and he said a year ago: It's not until we're billed for it. That means he believed a year ago, he'll do it. Today, he doesn't say a word anymore that he might still be able to do it, because he knows: He can't make it. Everyone tells him he can't do it, even the Court of Auditors says he can't do it – and now it's not that important to him anymore: It's just a side-by-side show, we don't need it! But on the other hand, he's talking about the energy autarchy. Every time the Minister uses the word ‘energy autarchy’, I feel crazy. I don't know how you are, but every time the Minister says "Energy Autarchy", I feel crazy! [[Abg.: (with a hand with a stretched thumb and pointing finger pointing towards the Bureau significant) Twice!]] How can anyone who is not even able to save a single tonne of CO2 seriously say: I want the energy autarchy that would mean 80 percent savings? – 80 percent! This is like a head of a company that says, with more and more dwindling market shares at each meeting: We're going to be world market leaders. Every time the market shares disappear, and every time he comes, he says: We're going to be world market leaders! That's exactly how the Minister comes: He doesn't do anything in the CO2 balance at all and speaks of energy autarchy. It's a rooster, it's a real cock. When I look at this – I have been watching it for three years now, Minister, I was also an environmental speaker in the committee – You haven't put a concrete plan on the table for three years. The only thing you've done in three years was thermal renovation. I have to admit, that's a good thing, just a drop on the hot stone, unfortunately, because you're slowing down again. The only thing you've done in the three years were advertising campaigns about advertising campaigns – have more It has not been achieved – rather than that you are really going into implementation. It wouldn't be so difficult either, it wouldn't cost any money at all. Many say the opposition always wants everything that costs so much money, but we don't have any money. I just mention one example: A year ago, the bond was set up for a billion € capital increase. At the time, I told you that it is planned to build a gas power plant in Austria with this money, or with a large part of this money. At the time, we would have had the opportunity to acquire the bond that it does not build a gas power plant, but decentralized biomass power plants with combined heat and power. This would once again have made a valuable contribution to solving the CO2 problem. That wouldn't have cost any money. The union would have done that if it had been said to him. Willingly, he does not do it because he loses a few percent of margin, and in the end it is only about making money. We should, however, be concerned with the economic context, and hopefully you too. Or, for example, the NoVA. It is not to be seen that we have virtually no steering at the NoVA. If someone buys a car that needs a 100 kilometers 15, 16, 17 litres, he will be punished at least; and someone who buys a car that needs 3 or 4 litres will not even be properly rewarded. That must be spread properly! That is, a very high nova, up to 30, 40 percent for all who drive Ferrari, Porsche and other communities, and a negative nova for all who buy a three-litre car. That would be a steering. This would be non-profit because it would not be an additional tax, not a burden, but a steering in the sense of control and not in the sense of taxation. There are many points. I don't want to list them, because you're not listening anyway, Minister. You don't care anyway. In the end, their task is to spread good spirit as an adlatus in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to tell everyone, to do something for the environment anyway, and ultimately not to go too much on the nerves of the economy. That's the point. If you do not get rid of it, nothing will go on on the environmental issue either. That is why, Minister: Do something at last, or we will waste the future, ours and those of our children!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53850	Mr Lugar, if you already want to inform the House about your sensitivity, please try it with less fine words if I may ask. [[Abg. Ing. Lugar: Which words did you specifically mean? What words were specifically defying? Am I getting an order call now?]] Next, Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53882	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Due to the framework conditions, the Environment 2012 area must also contribute to the consolidation of state finances. It is gratifying that funds are also provided for the thermal renovation in the coming year and are available. It is also positive that the adopted Eco electricity Act contributes additional investment volume to the expansion of alternative energy generation. As a municipal politician and mayor, I am also addressing an extremely important issue for the communities this year, namely the area of urban water management. The cuts estimated in the 2011 budget amounting to around €7 million were very unsatisfyable and mainly met the enormously burdened communities. However, the urban water industry is a success area. Over the last 60 years alone, approximately 88,000 kilometers of public canal, 1 400 municipal treatment plants and 76,000 kilometers of public water supply have been built, with an investment volume of about €52.5 billion. The municipalities are and therefore remain an important and indispensable investor and economic impulser. In the field of environmental technology, too, the municipalities are: Pre-rearer. However, there is no Austria-wide overview of necessary rehabilitation measures in the area of settlement water management. At present, only about 20 percent of all channels are recorded in the management information system. While the digital directory will be financially supported, the funding will only be reimbursed to the municipalities in many annual contributions, which will require, at least partially, interim financing, so-called loans. Perhaps in the future we could increase this base amount again, so that no additional interfinancing is necessary. That is why I invite all of you to create a fair burden sharing between the Federation, the Countries and the Communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53927	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53948	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Members of the Government! The fact that the subject of the environment is a very complex one has been heard by us because of the long-term discussion. Economic policy, climate change, energy efficiency, energy production, all of which has been mentioned. There's another point. As the last speaker, I can say something that has not yet been cut out, a point that seems very important to me, is energy consumption itself. If we know that one sixth of the world's population consumes more than 50 percent of the total energy, then I think we have to think about it. There are two very large deficits. On the one hand, energy producers are profit-oriented, which is not necessarily useful for sparing. The second facet is that the population as an energy user does not actually have the reference to energy, especially to heat energy. It's very important to me as a physicist. If I ask people if they think it's a lot of energy you need to warm up a liter of water by a degree, then they usually say that's not much energy. But if you know that with the energy with which you can only heat a litre of water by one degree, you can shoot the same mass – whether it is water or something else – at 420 meters altitude, and that at a speed of 330 km/h, then everyone knows that it is a very large energy. So if I stand in the kitchen as a houseman – or a woman, no matter who – and heat up water or that from 10 degrees to 100 degrees, then picture 90 rockets with a mass of one kilogram each at 420 meters. Everyone who knows this should be aware of how much energy we are wasting, for example, if we cook a tenth of a gallon of water for free, because you didn't measure it exactly. I would now be with you, Minister. Today's discussion has shown or heard: You like to advertise, you're a photogenic person. It would be a task for you to bring even more to people that the relation to energy consumption will be a better one. There may also be a photo of you, I think, then we have achieved something positive. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e53994	No further words are available. This is the subject of the environment. [[17:48:10]] Heading 5 (Cash and interest rates) [[17:48:13]] UG 15: Financial management UG 16: Public charges UG 23: Pensions UG 44: Financial compensation UG 45: Federal assets UG 46: Financial stability UG 51: Cash account UG 58: Community financing, foreign exchange agreements Text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54074	We come to the negotiation of heading 5: Cash and interest, with breakdowns 15, 16, 23, 44, 45, 46, 51 and 58, as well as the text of the Federal Finance Act and the remaining parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. The first is Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54101	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor on the left! Mrs Bundesminister on the right! We have now been sitting here in plenary for three days, so we have missed out on the budget, have a lot of discussion, but at the end of the day everything has been overlaid by the announcement of a so-called debt brake, which has already been decided in the Council of Ministers and is to be decided by two-thirds majority here in Parliament. Why did this happen so quickly at once, although the Chancellor of the Federal Republic actually did that on 26 March. Did you know about it in Brussels on October? I think panic has come up after seeing that we might lose triple A. Rating agencies now also have our country in sight, and there is a danger that we may be downgraded, and then the interest rates would explode accordingly. In other words, we might have to pay up to €3 billion more interest in a downgradation. That would also mean that the budget would no longer be worth the paper on which it was written, and we would be standing in front of a sash pile at the end. But now you have to make one quite clear: We haven't lost the Triple A, but de facto already. If I look at the sheer that is currently dispersing with the spreads, you get 1.8 percent interest for German bonds, but Austria already has to pay 3.7 percent interest. That means that this sheer is going to break up, and I don't think she'll go back together in the foreseeable future. If I look at economic development as it is at present, I do not believe that the projected inflation of 2.1 percent will result. Exploding fuel prices. You can watch the fuel prices every day, like at a parking watch, like they go down or up. To the parking fees. Since, I say, the legislator or all the bodies themselves are guilty when they drive inflation, when I see that in Vienna, for example, parking fees will rise by 66 percent. With regard to water charges, the increase is 33 percent. At the end of the day, we do not know how the negotiations between the government partners are going to take place, nor do we know what will have an impact on inflation. I do not want to talk about the increase in ORF fees by 7 percent, and at the end of the day, food prices and cost of living are also increasing noticeably. Any consumer can feel that. Therefore, I do not believe that this indication of inflation of 2.1 percent is still valid. But even in economic growth, the 0.8 percent growth in my view has long been out of date. The European crisis, especially the crisis in Italy, has caught us. The crisis of UniCredit in Italy will then also catch up with us here in Austria, so that we do not have to expect economic growth, and where Italy is our second most important economic partner. Ladies and gentlemen! We already have a debt brake, only it has not been observed until now. These debt brakes are the Maastricht criteria that we have long been able to comply with, but none of the previous governments did. I can only say one thing in the direction of the government bank: Put in place appropriate measures before that! Negotiating with your national leaders and councillors! If I look at the Upper Austrian Councillor Ackerl from the SPÖ, he's already talking about this debt brake. Agree with the municipal government and the municipal government! Then we're ready to talk, but certainly not before. This government will certainly not get a blank check signed by us!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54157	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54178	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I agree with my previous speakers that the last day of a budget debate, of course, offers an opportunity to get a summary. I agree that this budget debate was, of course, greatly overburdened by a provision not contained in the Federal Financial Act, but was already decided in the Council of Ministers, namely the debt brake. There is no question that this has overshadowed the whole debate. Of course, you can now blame the opposition, as it were: You decide a law that you know will soon be corrected. That's right. But on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we live at a time – you know just as well as I do – that has a mark: the pace of change. If I just take the example of a week ago in the Committee on Budgets, then the spread of Austria/Germany was 130 basis points, yesterday 180, today 170. The world is changing incredibly fast, and the financial markets have, of course, been incredibly uncertain since the global financial crisis, incredibly irritated. If yesterday the “FAZ” and the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” wrote, the investors doubt France and Austria, then one must act, even if this may still be so unjust. The data are against: We have lower government debt than Germany, but pay twice as many interest rates as the Germans. We have the best labour market data, but still pay more interest than the others. There you can say that this is all unfair; but we have to take note of it, that is simply the facts. [[Abg. Riepl: You can do something about it!]] – Dear colleague Riepl! We simply need to finance the financial markets. Unfortunately, we have a deficit, and we need to finance it. We must therefore take note of what is happening in the financial markets. That is why, I believe, it was a good and rapid decision, which is evidenced by the ability of this government to act, that the ministers have decided – although we are discussing a budget here in Parliament – and a debt brake has been fixed, which we hope will be able to decide here in Parliament before Christmas. [[Assured by Dr Bartenstein and Head.]] But I didn't quite understand the opposition, because: If we include the debt brake in the Constitution, that means that in the future a change in the current constellation can only be made together with an opposition party. So why the opposition to such a constitutional provision is not understood by me in the medium and longer term. But of course it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that saving alone cannot be the solution. In fact, we need a triple strategy. First of all, we need an expenditure brake, second we need impetus for growth and employment and third structural reforms. Let me also say one thing: All those who are always for growth or for growth impulses, but at the same time talk about tax increases, apparently do not notice that any tax increase is poison for growth and employment. [[Abg. Bucher: Please stay with me! Stay with this view!]] If it is a mass tax, it damages the purchasing power; if it is an operating tax, it damages the jobs. So, ladies and gentlemen, either we want growth strategies – then we need what Christoph Leitl said, namely, a tax brake in addition to the debt brake. If we want to promote growth, ladies and gentlemen, we need a debt brake and a tax brake. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For to say, on the one hand, we want growth, on the other, we all want to uncertainty with constantly new tax proposals – that cannot be it, ladies and gentlemen! I think next to our internal homework that we have to do – that is, once again: We also, of course, have tasks at European level, Mr Riepl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl]] With my colleague, Mr Krainer, I agree with two points, namely, when he said what the causes of the crisis were: Without a doubt, the regulation of the financial markets, which is still insufficient, was not at all a question, but we cannot solve that alone, which must be resolved at European level. Secondly, it is certainly true that the imbalances between individual economies have also been a reason for the great crisis. We need to see that competitiveness is improved. But the third thing, and I don't agree with Mr Krainer: We already have to deal with the sovereign debt crisis. This is more important at the moment than the issue of inequality in the distribution of incomes. This too is very important, but at the moment we have the problem of having this sovereign debt crisis that has developed dramatically. We have practically three homeworks at national level, but also three major challenges at European and international level. I am firmly convinced that with this capacity for action of the Federal Government, which has responded very quickly, we will be ready to accept this challenge and to deal successfully with it in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54252	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please. [[Some members of the BZÖ stand or sit with their backs to the speaker's desk.]] May I ask the speaker not to turn his back, gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Bucher! Please don't turn your back on the speaker! A little respect, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54279	That is not the case, Mr Stadler is going to go into the most hated Europe anyway. Quote Federal Chancellor Faymann: You're going to Europe. – Do you know where that is? Yes. [[Cheerfulness in the hall.]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Only the whole story isn't that funny. It has once again been a preliminary speaker of the ÖVP, who has said here, now everything has to be completely different, and what I know. So it's really impressive: 25 years of de facto government participation of the ÖVP, felt 125 years, already since the emperor, and you pretend as if you had not been there. [[Rejoicing in Greens and FPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Yes, it was! Now we can be completely different in terms of budget and financial policy – it will be much more than just a zero somewhere, and be it in the Constitution; it is about a few other basic insights, basic knowledge and convictions as well. Now, of course, it is possible to look back – we would have had the reforms in hospital planning, the reforms in the school administration for a long time. It is always the ÖVP heads of state who are against it to this day. You haven't gathered around the table yet to want to write this story in the Constitution. Let us look at the fact that we have achieved what we have failed to do, and for this the simple legislation is quite sufficient. Of course, everything is always about this debt brake. What you want is to anchor something there to produce pressure afterwards so that something happens. But something's too little for us, anything's wrong anyway. You want to write in the Constitution: We fly to the moon. But they don't say, with which rocket, with which space capsule, who's with it, who's flying out. That is in itself not a concept and a sense of nonsense. The only reasonable thing that is only good at being able to talk about what is actually the appropriate and necessary measures that Austria needs in the situation that is now in debt or not in debt. That's quite clear. Recently, everyone was rightly excited about what a strange thing these credit rating agencies are. They have too much power and the devil knows what else. Now the whole government is rushing into a weekend and coming back with a senseless constitutional provision. That won't save and won't help. That won't bring us forward. Rating agencies told us two, three years ago that Greece is as safe as Germany and that the American papers are great. The whole continent has been infected with super triple-A-rated papers. All of this was your way of explaining the crisis. And it is perverted in this place to skip him and say: The state is the only area where carving and shortening must be done. Otherwise, you will have nothing to say, and we will certainly not give our votes for that. It's perfectly clear: The release of the completely liberal forces on the markets has resulted in these crises. Then, at one time, it was the case that the states had to jump back in. Of course, they have indebted themselves higher in the meantime. It is precisely those who have always blamed the state and enforced deregulations in mass that have needed this concept again in the hour of its failure, i.e. the state. And see: In these few years, government debt has actually increased – decently even. Now is the question of what is the correct answer to this concept. It is inevitable – I turn to the previous speaker again – to also fight for cause of crisis that we intervene in the distribution of assets. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There will be no way by. This is also exactly the right chapter for the state's revenue to be discussed now. It is not going to happen without the rich people across Europe – but especially in Austria – because here the gap of justice is the greatest – their contribution and now, if everything is right, what you say must make a decent contribution. This is the most peaceful way of organizing this through appropriate tax justice. That's how it's gonna have to come. You may want to write the debt brake a hundred times somewhere, but if you shut down this insight, you are nothing but defenders of these privileges of the super-rich, the millions of heirs, the particularly favored in the tax law of the foundation, which is available only in Austria – with 3,400 foundations. You know, the Foundation's association has proudly issued that in recent years, in the crisis, the foundation's assets have increased from 60 to 70 billion euros. And you only think of writing a zero into the Constitution and then shortening it with those who need it most. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: But jobs...!]] [[Call at ÖVP:College Kogler, you must... invest in society!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Foundation assets are not a job condition per se. The story is quite simple. On the other hand, we have always made our constructive proposals, and that will remain the case. Yeah, it needs to be saved. This is composed of several components: Firstly, there is a lot of waste in this country. Secondly, there are support structures in this country that are completely beyond those that might need it, but that are promoting those who are already making millions of profits. You can get billions if you want. That's exactly what it's going to be about. Now I come to the point: They do not want to talk about how to take revenue-side and expenditure-side rehabilitation measures. Everyone's in favour of the debt having to go down. This is also a green concept, not only since the panic attack of the Federal Government, but much longer. This is a distribution question because the high debt actually means interest payments from the poor to the rich. That's right. With the wealth discrepancy already in place, I can only get it under control if I take something away there so that you don't have to cut down so much on the other hand. That's quite clear. Otherwise, the logical consequence of the set zero, which you only get away with two-thirds majority, is that the wrong ones come back to the handcushion. At least you have to understand that we have to distribute it differently. That is why it is perfectly clear that if you are not willing to recognize this question of injustice as such at all, you do not have to give answers and finally include the word “potential taxes” in your vocabulary. It can't be... [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – They always laugh! You're just pretending. That's the problem, we've seen that from the SPÖ today. In reality, the SPÖ is a poster party and not a government party. That is why it is now a historically useful moment to finally get to the point of the matter. Yes, of course, to save, if it makes sense and is fair. It is even more important in this situation, however, that we ask the rich – I say it exactly as it is – finally to the cash register. They've been under your aegis for years. That's why I came to the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we had taken over the last four years, since the crisis broke out, only half of what is the gap with OECD – by the way, loud Western-oriented capitalist countries – which would be a moderate asset tax, this hole would amount to about €4.5 billion, if we had taken only half, it would have been a little more than €2 billion, and we already had €8 billion less debt. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: What assets? What assets? Then you have to say what!]] I'm sorry, we're the ones who trust that there must be a tax on millions of inheritances. We are the ones who say that these foundations, which have accumulated €10 billion in addition to the crisis, must make their contribution. That's nothing new. They refuse this only with the active help of the SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: But you have slept that we already tax the foundations! Did you sleep that we're taxing the foundations?]] They tickle the rich in the homeopathic realm, they have not even become more mint! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: 25 percent are not homeopathic!]] You can now call what you want! It doesn't feel like a man. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: 25 percent are not homeopathic!]] - But where! The Foundation association sends out that it has survived the history of Loipersdorf super because not € 70 million, but only € 20 million. Read how they all dance around you on the nose! But that's yours, because you're in doubt for the rich anyway. But that's the point. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter makes a hand movement towards the speaker.]] – That’s where you can interpret how you want to. It'll need it. If you fall into the pool as an active federal government over the weekend from the ten-metre board and in the free case realize that no water is inside, it may not be possible that if you come to us, we will still pour water in in time for you to fall soft. That's your approach. But that's all I've ever had today. We say something quite different: It doesn't need it in the Constitution. But in any case, at the simple legal level, it needs a clear description of how we consolidate, as quickly as possible. You shouldn't lie there, so a lie brake is more interesting than a debt brake. First of all, that's the fucking duty of the Federal Government. There she leaves out, and now you want to take the opposition with a zero in the Constitution. No, no, no, We'll take you to duty. The ÖVP must give up the blockade on property taxes. That's the only one in this place. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: We don't have to do anything!]] - You don't have to do anything. We don't have to do anything. You called the panic, not us! Now it's time to deal with this. We will make our proposals, we will always do so. But in this way until December to want to write anything into the Constitution, which is no longer to be done for 20 or 50 years, which in itself does not make sense, and then to believe that the opposition or at least the Greens are voting in favour – if not! It is really about wealth taxes, it's about the contribution of the rich, it's about a great deal of savings packages that start where you can really get something – that's where there's enough wasted in this country. Now you can turn around and close, but a two-thirds majority will not bring you in.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54476	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54507	Mr President. First of all, I should like to make an amendment, but I do not know exactly who is all about it, I think it is Auer, Krainer, Kogler and Graezeit. [[Abg. Grosz: But a request is not a question of faith!]] It is about the five-party agreement on the establishment of a budget service in Parliament going further. The establishment plan should be amended accordingly, in addition to the eight posts to be set up, another six posts should be created. The financing is such that part of the current budget of Parliament is financed and some of it is expected to come out of the 2012 reserve. In the following years, however, there should be a corresponding refunding. I hope that I have adequately explained the request in the key points. Mr Westenthaler wanted to see the Taferl from the last time. [[The speaker shows a panel on which a graphic can be seen.]] This is relatively simple, because it's just about debt development, that's what happened two days ago. However, today I have a new Taferl on which we are dealing with the tax question, which Mr Stumpfully referred to. [[The speaker presents a panel on the speaker's desk, on which a bar chart on the theme mentioned above can be seen.]] On this Taferl we have different types of income – we are talking here about asset-related taxes, not about substance taxes. We are far apart, I know, but this is about income types and income taxes. This was the situation a year ago, very high taxes on work, already significantly lower in renting, renting, interest income, foundations et cetera, then zero in shares and others. [[the speaker points to the table he has set up before]] What did we do a year ago, where are we today? [[The speaker introduces another table to the table that has already been set up.]] – We have significantly improved the taxation of the foundations and also in the case of stock speculation. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Yes, the Kogler has slept!]] You can see quite simply what's missing here. Among other things, there is a lack of conversions and speculation with real estate. We are talking about income taxes, which we may also be able to agree on. There are other areas that are missing here, for example inheritance and gift tax. This is also an unprofitable income, not a substance tax, but an income for the heir to talk about. I think the percentage of 25 across the bank might be a little high, so we left this out of here. But what we can really talk about and what I invite you to talk about is to tax renditions – a warm rain, a gifted income in reality – or real estate speculation at least as we already do on other capital and property incomes. Once we have reached this 25 percent, there is still no fair distribution of the burden between earnings, labour income, and unprofitable incomes, such as different capital incomes. But there is at least one basis where we can talk about further alignment. That means: Let us speak, perhaps we will find a consensus, at least in these areas. It is true that there are certain taxes that have a negative impact on the economy, growth and employment, as my colleague stupidly said. But there are also taxes in which this influence is small to none at all. I believe that the impact on economic growth, growth and employment is very small if we are to tax redeployment gains. In contrast, there are a number of problem areas on the expenditure side. If we save there, the impact on the economy, growth and employment will be much greater. That is, when we talk about further rehabilitation, we need to talk about a good mix of revenue and expenditure-side measures. We need to talk about the fact that individual measures have as little or as little as possible no negative impact on growth and employment. Above all, we need to talk about how we can make investments in the future and how we can finance the restructuring of the social state, say less transfers, more services. Then we also have an added value as a republic and a positive change for our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54603	The amendment concerns the five-party agreement on the establishment of the budget service, is set out in its main points, will also be distributed and will therefore be negotiated. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54668	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54689	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Krainer! If you're already there on my side: It is always remarkable what energy the SPÖ puts in the whole debate in the invention, definition and increase of new taxes. I think that's interesting. You are inventing new taxes, you want to raise taxes, and that at a time when we are experiencing the highest tax burden in history. [[Call the SPÖ:Who? Who?]] Tax revenues are spreading, both in terms of labour taxation and in terms of corporate taxation – €3.5 billion more because of the work of the skilled and diligent Austrians, whether employers or employees. The whole SPÖ Group has no other option but to introduce new taxes or increase taxes in four days' budget debate. We do not agree with that, and we do not play with it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Krainer, you can already build Taferln! You have to explain this to your voters! You must explain to your voters that you are the tax-inventing party, the tax-enhanced party! We don't touch that. But we ask the Minister again the crucial question. Mrs. Minister! In these four days, Member Stadler has shaped the crucial sentence and has also asked the crucial question that you have not answered so far and which none of the speakers of the government parties has answered. The crucial question is: What prevents you from ending debt? [[Call the FPÖ:Who!]] What spirit – colleague Stadler has said which villain – which law, which physical person, which companies – defines it once, says name! –, who prevents you from stopping making debt? [[Call the FPÖ:Pröll!]] No one, whether with or without a debt brake, Mr President, is stupid! That's not the question. You must finally come to the realization that your path is the wrong one! You have to turn around, go back and stop making debt! You don't need a brake, you need a drive! That's the truth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But no, you decide in a few minutes a budget with € 270 billion record debt, around ten, nine and a half more than the last time, and make you and say: We want to finish. That's something unbelievable. This is also the reason why the opposition parties have such a mistrust of how to deal with the debt brake – not only because you have suddenly become smarter overnight, or because the triple A is in danger, but because we simply do not lose out on this policy. If you really mean it – and I stick to it – then you have to link it up, and that is a very clear condition for the debt brake. You have to put the cards on the table: What about the future tax system? Do you want to raise taxes? How does the savings package look? All this has to be put on the table before we even think about being involved in the debt brake. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. This is a fair offer, and this is an offer we make you as the lawyer of taxpayers in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have our model, and I am bringing in this motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bucher, Mr Westenthal, Mr President, on the subject of “genuine payment – tax reform now!” [[The speaker presented the motion for a resolution.]] You already know the request, I'm going to explain it in the basics. They know our model with the most essential demands, which are nevertheless highly reasonable. They mean a uniform, simple, transparent tax system. The Minister of Finance was already on a good path, she has already talked about the flat tax several times in the media. Why don't you do it? Why Saying You don't: We combine the approach to debt brakes with the introduction of the flat-tax model proposed by Josef Bucher? That would be an idea. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] That would be a common good idea with which we can all live and which would relieve people. Connect Be constructive! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the end, due to the high tax burden on labour costs, more net of gross for Austrian workers must look out. In the end, it must be easier and more transparent: a tax, an authority, strengthening the economic location, tax justice, remission of SMEs and, ultimately, a clear reduction in the administrative burden. These are the key points of this request for a fair tax system, which I have also explained. We say: Enough paid – end with the high taxes! We need to get down with the taxes and ultimately create a fair system. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly on the issues of financial management: Mrs. Minister! I am still sluggish about how, in the future budget, you can actually assume that the multiple dividends of the Austrian National Bank are going to beat, that there will be more dividends, although the National Bank has more shares in the IMF, has increased them, and has also purchased so-called scrap loans. I am therefore not sure whether you can really assume that there is a higher dividend here. In connection, it is already clear to me that you are expecting it, because apparently you are assuming that we are getting another electricity price increase, which in itself would be our own topic and what we are refusing to do. But then, of course, there are also more dividends for the Austrian Federal Government. I understand. Whatever's interesting, we're always talking about liability – 21,7, with interest 28 billion €. I can point out, Mrs Minister, either you have forgotten it or you do not want to tell us that this risk of failure for the liability framework is nowhere budgeted in the entire budget. I don't think so, maybe you'll tell us. I didn't find it. In fact, you would have to budget this as an ordinary merchant in the case of the case at least for security reasons. There is no risk of default on any item. That is why we are also saying quite clearly, because this is precisely what we want, we want to have a stop from payment for the Member States and we therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It must end these billions of payments to the Member States of the European Union, Mrs Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are reasonable initiatives. You cannot claim that the BZÖ did not make very, very constructive proposals and a large number of requests in this debate. We asked the Cardinal question: Who prevents you from ending the debt? It is simply your answer and your understanding that this budget, as it is decided today, is wrong, speaks against the debt brake and ultimately only increases the pressure on the people and increases the debt, and therefore we reject the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54843	The motion for a resolution first set out in its main points is also under negotiation, as is the second motion for a resolution. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e54985	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55006	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, it is anything but everyday when you make a decision on a budget, a good and right budget, a budget that brings a primary budget deficit, a budget that brings government debt a little further – hopefully last time – up, together with the opening of a discussion on a constitutional debt brake. We've never had that before. That's a premiere for us, and that's unusual. Mr Westenthaler, be calm! You have in us, of course, a rival who wants to go a way: no new taxes, no tax increases. Let's try this way! Here we are entirely with you, for regulatory reasons, but also because Austria is already a high tax country and because Austria is also a country in which distribution justice has taken place in the last 10 years at a very, very high level. Hardly a second country in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, has such a high level of distribution justice as Austria. Look at the Gini coefficient, which is an objective method. I also understand Mr Kogler, when he says that we do not want a constitutional anchorage, we do not need to go along with it. But, ladies and gentlemen, we can now draw critically or less critically here through rating agencies. The rating agencies now have the issue in their hands. They judge Austria. There are decisions at European level. Federal Chancellor! Mrs Finanzminister! There is the decision-making of the Council of Ministers. All these decisions now see as the only sensible method to be quite prepared against a very, very expensive loss of Triple A – billions of people stand here at beech – to anchor this debt brake as well as constitutionally, and this in the next few days and weeks. We don't have an alternative here. So, Mr Kogler, your argument in all honours, perhaps there are some here – you, me and a good part of the House – that would be without the debt brake in the Constitution, but we need it that way. Mr Krainer, your argument in all honours, which are tax-related and then, quite at the very end, also about saving, but what I miss from the coalition partner is that you start first with saving and setting up savings potential. It is completely undisputed among economists that what we need by 2017, Mr. Matznetter, total about €9 billion in additional savings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] 9 billion €! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Why can't the millionaires save?]] The lion's share of this volume – and I speak here of three quarters or more – must come out of the title cost savings, and I regret it and think it is wrong to come first on the subject of taxes, to act here with Taferln and to say which taxes we want to collect when and where. Let's start with saving! Let's fix the debt brake in the Constitution! You can't do it otherwise. And I call on the opposition parties in particular to take this constructive path with us, to save first and not to think about new taxes or tax increases and to secure the triple A for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55055	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55076	Mr President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! We've heard it today, 26th. In October, it was decided in Brussels to introduce a debt brake. ==References== This was discussed and decided in the Council of Ministers in Austria in November. In these almost three weeks in between, it was either not necessary to tell the Federal Chancellor, or he did not consider it necessary to discuss it in Austria. But that's what I'm saying. In all cases, a debt brake with the involvement of the countries and communities is very interesting for me. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Finance, you can remember exactly when we discussed the subject of finance in the Committee on Budgets and the Minister for Finance informed us that she has no idea how many debts there are in the communities, because she depends on the figures she is voluntarily sent to the communities. There is no closed numbering work where we can control exactly how many debts exist in the individual Länder of the municipalities. I believe that this is very worrying, especially since the Court of Auditors has for a long time been very much demanding the creation of a single system of calculations so that one is not on the way to the blind, and one finally knows where the burden is in the covenant, in which the federal states are responsible for the debts. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I also believe that many mayors would wish for that, because not for nothing has the MunicipalAudit created by the Ministry of Life, where the communities can work out over 100 benchmark numbers throughout Austria on the payment of the Ministry of Life, have received a huge agreement. The mayors also want to know where they are and where they have strengths and weaknesses. These very foundations would also be necessary for the forthcoming financial compensation. Madam Minister, I believe that it would be very important to abolish this unfair system of the graduated financial key, because it cannot be possible that the citizens of the large municipalities and cities are much more valuable to you than in the small rural communities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am convinced that these many small communities are working more efficiently, more concretely and better. Maybe I'll bring you a little example. I have now had the opportunity to talk to the representatives of the Municipal and Municipal Governments in Chile on the occasion of a visit to Chile. Santiago, a city with 6 million inhabitants, consists of saying and writing 52 individual administrative units. At my surprise and in response to my request, I was confirmed that precisely these 52 administrative units are more efficient, better and more directly available to the citizen than a large administrative unit. [[Call the SPÖ: But you asked the wrong person!]] And I think that alone would be reason enough to continue to maintain the small units here and to lay the unjustly graded population key ad acta. It would now be time to prepare for the next financial compensatory negotiations and to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55122	Mr Ing. Kaipel is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55150	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to make an amendment by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Hannes Fazekas, Mr Fazekas, to the proposal for a law of the Federal Finance Act 2012 and to the Annexes (1405 d.b.) on the 2012 Staff Plan (Annex IV to the Federal Finance Act for 2012) as amended by the 1510 d.B. Committee Report. ................................................................................................................................................................ The application is available and is also distributed so that further explanations are missing. It is strange, ladies and gentlemen, that whenever the distribution justice is addressed, the report is reflective: no new taxes. It may sound good, but basically it means nothing more than protecting those who have contributed little to nothing so far, even in the future, and when the millionaire tax comes up, there is a cry. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we can agree that we are streamlining our system where it is right and necessary, and then we are burdening where it is possible or redistributing the burden in a situation where we know exactly that the working people need to finance 90 percent of the state. I think there's no place in times like this ideology. It's about justice. Where there is no justice, there is no social peace either. I think we are jointly responsible for maintaining it. The situation of the municipalities has been addressed several times. I would point out that, so far, the largest public investor, namely the municipalities, will no longer be available in the future. 70 percent of the municipalities – rising in trend – are unable to balance the budgets and it is also not correct, as it is repeatedly pointed out that the communities have received more money. If you offset the extra income with the extra deductions, then there is less money for more tasks. That is why, I think, the basic tax is rightly referred to again, especially since it has not been adjusted over the last 40 years. We are at the international level on this issue and I refer to the Wifo's statements on this. The communities need rapid help. We are required to grant these too – we have the possibility. I would point out that all those who are not willing to provide rapid assistance risk regional employment, regional economy. I don't think we should afford that together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55207	The proposed amendment, which is just being distributed, is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55289	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55310	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Since the budget speech of the Federal Minister Fekter, four weeks have passed. In these four weeks, a lot has been done in the committees, in the plenary. There were thousands of word messages, a lot of commitment, many requests that were made, which were then answered, millions of pages of printed paper, huge staff in the clubs, in the parliamentary management – where I would like to thank very much for the work –, expert opinions, press releases, TV reports, a huge play in total. [[General acknowledgment]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Winter.]] As a merchant, I would say: Except for spouts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a politician, I have to say: empty miles. The budget submitted in mid-October has not changed in any number, with no indent, with no sentence, with no letters. It is a pity to waste knowledge, energy and costs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this budgetary process could be made much more effective. The general situation: It's threatening as never before. One euro rescue screen follows the other. Something doesn't have to be right. Are there rescue shields for Danish crowns? Are there lifeguards for Swiss francs? Are there lifeguards for Norwegian crowns? Has there been a lifeguard for the schilling? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] No, ladies and gentlemen, only the euro must be saved. There's something wrong with the system. The Austrian state has accumulated debts of € 268 billion. We pay for interest in the amount of €8 billion and make new debts in 2012 amounting to €9.2 billion. That's 15 percent of the revenue. And, Mrs. Federal Minister, I've already told you a few times: That's not a savings path, it's a debt highway that we're currently driving. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report, for his excellent report. And in this climate, I do not understand that the official trade unionist, our president, is demanding 4.65% more salary here. The coalition is in confrontation, not in common, Mr. Doctor stupid. You fight indistinctly. This has once again been shown in the debate on agriculture and the ÖBB. But they're not brave enough to say it doesn't make any sense to end this standstill, we're making new elections. You don't. On the contrary! In spite of all these bad features, they speak the budget beautifully and continue to waste money on infrastructure, health, education, pensions, administration, promotion and so on. No one is slowing these debts, although it would be possible to brake them even without a debt brake. There are, after all, the Maastricht criteria which are not respected. The big panic-created debt brake will not save us. This is a pure alibrity that had to be done before the review by the rating agencies. It is only printed paper without substance and concept. The situation is more than serious, ladies and gentlemen. I am a merchant and do not understand this whole development that the government has taken the opportunity to rethink the future these three years that have passed. I am totally dissatisfied as a merchant and also as a politician with the results of the budget. I am dissatisfied with the resolution and I do not understand why the coalition does not understand that this is all about the Austrians, about our country and above all about youth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I always feel that party interests have priority over common interests. I'm sure that's wrong. It burns the hat, nobody deletes, and it'll take so long for the crash to come. This is irresponsible from my point of view. No one understands. Our future has become poorer by €9.2 billion.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55414	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55435	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The last few days were marked by the fact that it is fair distribution that it is always about more taxes, the increase in taxes that are introduced in particular asset taxes. I should like to present a few facts to you, ladies and gentlemen, completely worthless. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Austria is one of the European countries that can reach the highest social rate. With 31 percent of GDP, we distribute about €91 billion of social and transfer benefits. Compared to this, we pay 110 billion € net wages in Austria. In other words, we are distributing through the social and transfer services almost the same amount that we pay to the unemployed in net wages. The next point: Who actually pays the taxes in Austria? 11 percent of the highest incomes have 37 percent of Austrian incomes and pay 65 percent of taxes. I do not understand where fair taxes should be distributed. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: How much share of the wealth do the richest have?]] If one further notes that 65 percent of the workers do not pay taxes, that is even more incomprehensible. We've known the effects for years. Despite this great redistribution, we have the biggest problems in the government budget over and over again. Unfortunately, due to these enormous redistribution rates, we cannot achieve a positive budget figure – and even in the case of the best economy. There are examples. One example is Switzerland. I should like to point out how we are dealing with the matter in Switzerland, which, by the way, has also opted for a debt brake in 2001. There the redistribution is pushed back much more strongly. In Switzerland we have a tax rate of 30 percent, with us in Austria currently 42.8 percent. There is a maximum tax rate of 30 percent, with us of 50 percent – I know that he is with the self-employed 43.6 percent – we have a sales tax of 8 percent in Switzerland, 20 percent in us, and we have a social rate of 19 percent in Switzerland, 31 percent in us. And that's because in Switzerland people are left with their money. If I spend €3 500 a month today for the young employees I have, and they then have €1500 in the month on the account, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is the wrong approach. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pay less!]] We should leave money for the young people, especially the Austrians. They can handle it much better than the state can ever do.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55491	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55512	Ladies and gentlemen! We have, as so often, also discussed a lot in the last four days about saving opportunities, also in the administrative field again and again. Three years now we know that we are in a crisis, three years we would have had the time to use this crisis as a means of pressure against all administrative resistance, in order to finally achieve fundamental reforms and savings. But again and again we have heard many excuses, why everything does not go, who blocks all, such as the countries, different institutions. I would like to give you an example – I wanted to bring it to the judicial chapter yesterday, but I had no time to do so – an example of what one sees as millions of savings not fail in resistance from somewhere, but they can easily be lurked by making meaningful reforms. Mrs Finanzminister! I asked the Justice Budget why there is an exorbitant increase from 2011 to 2012 under the heading Accounting Agency, from € 2.8 million to € 5.9 million. Within a year! I asked if this was just a one-time increase or whether it was permanent. The Federal Minister for Justice has said that no, this is now an increase in duration because there has been a system change in the accounting system. In other words, we have a reform in the accounting system, which costs twice as much in the final effect as before. So congratulate on such reforms! Since we're already there, now something else. I also asked if it was true that the accounting agency costs a booking line €16, and it has been confirmed, ladies and gentlemen. And this value is set by the Minister of Finance. You all know that a booking line with a private tax advisor costs between 60 and 80 cents, the Federal Accounting Agency will charge its own ministries 16 € for a booking line. This leads to how a school director told me that when a kiss comes to her, who quickly bought a light bulb in an electric store, she must not pay him the money cash, because the accounting agency says that everything has to be transferred. She then transfers him 4,50 € to his account and pays 16 € for the booking line to the accounting agency. Ladies and gentlemen! A small example in the Ministry of Justice – a doubling of costs in the millions by a reform. 16 € for a booking line at the accounting agency! [[Abg. Oillinger: A black and blue success!]] – This is not a blue success, Mr colleague, no, but it is a matter of a fundamentally positive idea that not every ministry should do all of this on its own, but that one can make it central, save personnel and infrastructure if one also implements a good idea. If you do it badly, then extra costs come out. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many, many of these small items, so we could save many, many tax millions for the taxpayer. There is no excuse for national leaders, there is no excuse for institutions, as these institutions, including the Ministry of Finance, would be asked to bring in exactly those millions who would save us tax increases.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55552	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55573	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is in our responsibility to deal with the assets of the Republic carefully and responsibly. Of course, the Austrian Federal Railways are also one of the companies in the Republic. Here I sometimes miss the careful handling and also the necessary seriosity, because, Mr Bartenstein, you can never and never, like you on 20 June. We have said here on October 6 billion grants to the ÖBB, because you just have to... [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: I didn't say this today!]] – Of course, I have the protocol with you, and I can show it to you. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: That's what we're talking about!]] Investment in the infrastructure is paid by the state across Europe, we are putting that around the ÖBB. We also need to establish a uniform division for the liability, because the issue of Greece is not going to affect the liability either, nor is it with the ÖBBB. Pensions will be paid on behalf of the Republic, and then 1.076 billion will remain for ordered orders and for the payment of loss of revenue. So you should stick to it, or you're going to do something with it. However, I would also like to address two other points on justice, especially on the issue of performance justice, because this is very important to our coalition partner. This, for example, concerns the topic of building land. In my home town, the building ground per square meter cost €50, recently a plotter told me, now it costs €120 per square meter. I know that is not very expensive, there are probably higher prices in the south of Vienna. The reason was the completion of a motorway. The question is: Where was the performance? But there are already positive signals from the new President of the Federal Farmers' Government for a change of direction. I agree with Mr Steindl that we are a high-tax country in terms of employment, but, Mr Steindl, in terms of wealth – I repeat what I have often said here – we are – the OECD notes this every year – final light. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Also a high tax country!]] Mexico, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have lower taxes on wealth, and there is something to do. Mr Westenthaler, because you are saying ‘high tax’. What we want is – I think, we are not so far apart at all – to tax labour less and to counter it by means of wealth. That's also a lot more justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55644	Mrs Fekter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55666	Mr President. Dear listeners! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since we sent this budget to Parliament as a government template, there has been a great deal in total with regard to Austria's credit quality. We suddenly had a huge increase in our interest rate burden, the distance from Germany has increased and increased, and for about ten days the whole has really exploded. On Tuesday, therefore, the Federal Government decided to submit a debt brake by the Council of Ministers in order to counter this assessment with a view to the fears that there were vis-à-vis Austria. Mr Kogler! That wasn't a panic attack, it wasn't a panic reaction, it was necessary, thoughtful and highly appropriate that we did that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many of you will have asked yourself: What happened? – Passed, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is not Austria, but there has been enormous instability around us, especially in Italy and, in particular, in Hungary. This instability around us then made many suspect that we would be infected. After all, Italy is our second largest export partner, and everyone knows that we have close relations with Hungary. We therefore had to signal that there is no risk of infection because we have stable conditions and stable finances here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Is a debt brake already a success?]] When we decided this debt brake on Tuesday in the Council of Ministers, we had a distance to Germany of almost 2% in interest rates. In relation to this: It was only half a percent in August. At this dynamic alone you can see that it is our interest rates that have increased exorbitantly. On Wednesday, after the decision-making of the debt brake, we stabilized. On Thursday we went down again, and today we thank God for three tenths below Tuesday. How right that was, you can recognize it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have thus restored the stability that we need in order to have a secure future. We have adopted a clear strategy, namely debt brakes, upper limits of liability, growth and employment by means of offensive measures, spending ceilings for all local authorities and structural reforms together with the countries. However, we also have to register that we need to work even more intensively to continue and intensify this stability strategy together with all local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am therefore also seeking the opposition parties to recognise the accuracy of this course and to help us get the debt brake into the Constitution. You do not do it for the government, you do it for Austria, you do it for our population, you do it for a secure future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I hope that there will be at least one political group that sends this signal to the people in view of the economic situation. [[Abg. Grosz: Why are you making new debts today?]] – Mr Grosz, you know very well that we have been forecast a huge deal from the Wifo in terms of the forecasts of our growth, and it is necessary that growth is not strangled, but stimulated to bring growth and employment to us those tax revenues that we need so that we can reduce the debt. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why do you make new debts in the next budget?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore: If you budget carefully, you have to maintain the investment expenditure that stimulates growth, set up structural reforms and save on administrative expenditure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Debtkaiser!]] But we do not want the economic plant that is still forecast to become weaker, we want to strengthen it. [[Abg. Strache: Who prevents you from making any more debts?]] That is why we have also adopted offensive measures, and these offensive measures mean that we are not yet where we would have liked to be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also prefer a zero deficit, but with regard to the overall consolidation, we go a consistent path. [[Abg. Strache: Who prevents you from making any more debts, Mrs. Fekter?]] [[Abg. Strache: When do you implement it?]] We hit him with Loipersdorf, and we didn't leave him. [[Abg. Strache: Turn it on!]] Although the economic researchers have predicted a business model – that is, the economic situation will weaken – we have nevertheless followed the consolidation path. And that's good. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Were the Greeks also in the thermal spa? Have the Greeks also made a proposal in Loipersdorf?]] All in all, we do well with our economic data. With the debt brake, we were also able to save our triple A. That is, we will probably pay low interest rates next year and use the money for reforms, for economic recovery and for deficit reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55844	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55866	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard of all kinds of opposition in the last four days. The colleague Grazurd has done a little bit of a re-telling of the last four days. I can only tell you that the opposition has demanded money on the one hand in individual areas, and on the other hand, the opposition is drumming all the time, we have to save. I think you should consider what course you are taking now, either that we are spending more money or that we are saving. We want to save. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Each of us has wishes, that is no question at all. We would also like to see a tax reform, something in the business sector, in the additional labour costs, in the families. This is no question that we want to relieve families and that if they put more children into the world, we simply want to give them a tax advantage, but it is not possible at the moment, and you cannot close your eyes to reality. We politicians must bear the responsibility for this country. And today's debt – we all know that – is tomorrow's taxes. If you only consider that the opposition has been in the house, which already has an amount of €10 billion – 9.5 billion has been said today, but account for around 10 billion – then I wonder if it is serious for you to continue bringing in applications in the course of the budget debate, where you are demanding things like the flat tax, as the BZÖ does, or the full tax deductibility of donations for animal and environmental protection as well as art and cultural sponsorship. I think, quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, we should all recognise the seriousness of the situation and share this saving course together, because we must look at the future of our children. Finally, I would like to appeal to the FPÖ, which today makes a request to make the stone farm grounds a world heritage heritage and calls for a nameable vote. I can tell you, Mr Strache, where it belongs, namely in the Vienna municipal council, we have put this request. This was rejected by the government in Vienna. [[Abg. Strache: There is no longer the ÖVP in Vienna at all!]] We Vienna Members will bring a petition to the House. Then you can join us. We do it where it belongs, and not here. [[Abg. Strache: There is no more Vienna ÖVP!]] And by the way, it is not one of the budget negotiations either. You can do the politics where it belongs. This is about the finances, and this is about the budget for the future of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55931	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55952	High house! Mrs Tamandl, you say that today's debts are the taxes of tomorrow, and today decide as the Austrian People's Party, as an economic party, to increase the taxes for the future amounting to €10 billion. They are talking about a debt brake, Mrs. Finanzminister, in a dishonest way and today they owe more Austria to the record debt of € 270 billion – on the back of all future generations, on the back of children who have not even been born, on the back of banknotes that this National Bank cannot even print. [[Accident with BZÖ and FPÖ]] Mrs Finanzminister, you are more than just leaving! They are a danger to the Austrians! They are a danger to future generations, to our location! Although you may be the friend of the debt tower in Greece, where you throw €30 billion out generously, today you announce a savings package for the Austrians, for those who have not caused these financial abuses. You from the Austrian People's Party are the tax and tax party number one, without you looking at the interests of the citizens! We're not going to do that anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e55991	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e56023	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we agree that it is necessary to be as independent as possible from the financial markets and to reduce debt. And, honestly, I don't quite understand the discussion about the debt brake: The European countries agree that there are rules on deficits, and it is also in our interest that the other countries comply with these rules. However, we must also and therefore decide and want to put it in the Constitution. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] In recent days I have not heard any argument against the debt brake or the debt brake in the Constitution, but I have heard of how to put the framework then with Life fills and how to consolidate a budget – and there are different opinions about it. But I didn't hear any argument against the debt brake. That is why I do not fully understand the fact that we are playing with party-political little money here, because I think the issue is too serious for that. It is in our all interest that all euro countries adhere to rules, because we are at risk from other countries. [[Abg. Strache: Why don't you do that? Why don't you stick to the Maastricht criteria?]] And that Austria is exemplary here that the government reacts quickly and responsibly so that the financial markets are calmed down and also creates confidence, I think it is a good sign. [[Abg. Strache: Who prevents you from complying with the Maastricht criteria for years?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question of filling the framework is: How do we implement the debt brake? How do we consolidate the budget? There, too, the scavengers are to fall, because of course there is still a lot of savings potential in Austria – of course! - in the administrative area. Yesterday, together with the two security spokesmen and the State Secretary Ostermayer, the Minister of Finance has provided a good example of how to make savings. In the case of taxes on millionaires, there is still enough potential for capital taxes. I believe that if you quietly consolidate a budget, from a mix of revenue and expenditure, and also invest, it is good for social peace and secure jobs. Here too, Austria is a model compared with other European countries. That is to say, for the next budget too, I would like to see a mix of expenditure-side measures, fair revenue and investment in the future and the labour market, and I hope that we will continue to be the country with the lowest unemployment and the greatest social peace in Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e56076	Next, Mr Magistrate. Ikrath to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e56097	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Our Mrs. Federal Minister has not informed us today in her own modesty something I now want to repeat: The APA informed today at 13.43 a.m. – I quote –: ‘Debt crisis: Reding praises Austria’s debt brake, and then writes: [[Abg. Bucher: It is not yet decided!]] [[Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Ursula Haubner : They don't exist yet!]] “EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding recently praised Austria’s decision by the Council of Ministers to introduce a debt brake enshrined in the Constitution as a model for Europe.” [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We do not know how it looks, and we praise it!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] “I want to see that more in the EU,” Reding said on Friday to the APA. () Austria is thus within the EU’s best performing “in this area. Germany also has a debt brake, but “it is not comparable to the Austrian one. And now I refer to the following: We do not judge whether the measures that the Federal Government sets are the right ones, we do not finalise it – not when it comes to the question of the maintenance of Triple A, not when it comes to the question: What will the Austrian taxpayer have to do to interest rate services in the future? This is the assessment of the markets, that is the assessment of the rating agencies. And that is why it is extremely gratifying if such a judgment is already formulated by the EU today. And – the Minister said it – the spreads are already going down, and that saves the taxpayer a lot of money. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: By the announcement not!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Red Brake!]] I also call on colleagues from the opposition to quickly anchor the debt brake in the Constitution because it concerns the maintenance of Triple A. And this is a fact which is particularly significant for the future burden and the scope of the budget. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I thought the Minister of Finance always says that's sure, the Triple A?]] – Mr Westenthaler! Just listen! That doesn't hurt. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She says this is not in danger, the Triple A!]] Just listen and think of the Austrians, their burdens, their possibilities, their future! I would like to make one more comment on Mr Kogler: There is, of course, Mr Kogler, a wealth in foundations, but that is not the fortune of Uncle Dagobert, where a few rich, super-rich or millionaires, as Mrs Rudas said, bathe in every day. This capital is 65 percent invested in corporate equity. These companies create and secure jobs. We wanted to bring this capital to Austria, we wanted it to be used productively in the economy, we wanted it to generate growth and employment. That's what it does. Therefore, I ask to describe the other side of the medal as well. We also want to keep this capital in Austria in the future and use our jobs productively in the sense of our economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e56242	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e56263	Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to be able to speak in front of an almost full government bank again. The fact that the millionaire tax is an absolutely adequate contribution to the reorganisation of the budget problems in Austria has been repeatedly stressed and proved by this speaker's desk in various contexts in recent days. By the way, I also find a billionaire or a trillionaire tax, best known at international, including at European level, under the name of transaction tax. This is a transaction tax of two On the one hand, to bring about a regulation of the financial markets, and on the other hand, to simply generate new sources of income. Not least, thanks to the continuous, very large engagements of Austrian politicians, it has succeeded in a great deal of progress on this transaction tax at European level. We are not yet where we want to be, we all know that, but I still believe that as Austrian parliamentarians, we can be proud, because we were the very first to decide on a four-party proposal in addition to the Belgians and the French, and we were working on a Europe-wide transaction tax with the effects I have just described. I would also like to remind you at this point that at that time it was our common thrust to expect the additional resources to be spent on international tasks, such as climate change and development policy. I know that the bear transaction tax has not yet been paid, and it doesn't make much sense to distribute the fur of a bear that has not yet been laid. But in spite of all this, it is important for me to recall the possible financing of international tasks through these future revenues, because I also believe that, apart from the meaningful financial market effects that we have of it, it is also quite fair that those groups that use resources at a global level that are very often robbed from developing countries – and that to the detriment of people there, not to their benefit – do part of it that there can be something like a global burden compensation through a transaction tax. I believe that we should not lose sight of this development policy objective of a transaction tax, and I am pleased that at the end of this debate on the 2012 budget, I can also present the thoughts of international solidarity here again, because I believe that this is a thought that will help us to better solve those problems that we all face together on this globe. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e56308	The next speaker was Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e56330	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important to conclude by drawing up once again the lack of credibility of this federal government: This week we sit here in the high house, and you from red and black and from the government bank decide a new budget with additional debt, with additional debt of € 10 billion – and then you come and say you want to save?- Oh, my God! With this signal, of course, you have also caused exactly what is real today in the financial market and in relation to the rating agencies, namely that all experts say that the Triple A is at risk – because you have thrown billions into EU arrest packages, assumed liability, where all experts say that sooner or later it will have to be beaten and that our compatriots will have to stand straight. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's the reason! You've been playing our triple A rating for a long time! Every expert says behind your hand that you can't save anything with this placebo effect that you've been trying with the debt brake in the last few days – because you're not credible! Faith You really are, this shame is taking you from the credit rating agencies and the financial world anywhere in the world? – That’s the reality! You are talking about a debt brake, which is now so necessary in the Constitution, because you will only present a budget in the near future. – Yes, please, we have a genuine EU situation of the Maastricht criteria that you are committed to, and you have not been holding on to it since 2007 and are making debts to devils come out! What kind of unbelief is that?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do you think any citizen in Austria is still taking you seriously? That shows what's being played here! And then you want the opposition to buy a cat in the bag in a blind flight. They say “debt brake”, but in reality they mean the mutilation brake. So if, then we want to be honest. If debt brakes, tell us who has prevented you from doing so up to now, Mrs. Finanzminister, and the reason is that you could not make the budget possible this week without new debts! Who prevented you? Finally, I want to make sure that you deal honestly with us and tell us what taxes you want to raise – because here is the one side that is thinking only about tax increases. [[pointing toward SPÖ]] You say that quite openly! All the proposals I have heard from you were not yet proposals. I can't figure out if 10, 40 or 150 million comes from your proposals, but do you really believe that Are you going to reduce the 268 billion public debt? - That's ridiculous! No one buys you that. What we need are expenditure-side savings in Austria, and finally – and that is to say – our tax money for European Member States and bank speculators is not thrown out to the window. This is the money we are missing today, here in the education system, here in the social field, here in the nursing sector, at the universities and for our pensioners. That's the money! – And now you want to let the Austrians know: Ha, we need a debt brake to put out of the window more money in EU security shields or the European stability mechanism in the future. All of this is more irresponsible, dishonest, and every citizen in Austria is attacking his head today, I say it openly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That call was really nice! Now you have been fighting around since 2007, you have not succeeded in administrative reform, have not implemented any health reform, where the Court of Auditors has been presenting you for years, how much savings are in there, namely in the medium term – of course not from today to tomorrow, but in the medium term – even €11 billion per year that the Court of Auditors has calculated. Nothing you've done! Unfortunately, they are not capable of doing so at all! You are fighting back and forth, and now you want to speak to the citizens when the mutilation brake you are selling as a debt brake is in the Constitution, then at once the two government parties are supposed to agree on what savings they are willing to implement?- Oh, my God! – That’s all more absurd! And it's exactly this absurdity that nobody takes away from you. I believe that we are in fact required. If you were honest, you'd have to go here today, right now, and say, If we delay this budget meeting next week, we will go in and see that we are presenting a budget that will not add €10 billion to new debt to the Austrians! That would be the honesty that ultimately the financial markets are waiting for. And if you don't, then don't be surprised if in the next few weeks the triple A rating has gone missing. You are then responsible for this because of today's budget! – That’s exactly what you have to say to the citizens, to the Austrians, once again very clearly and clearly, because you are trying to trick around to push away responsibility at once. We have told you from the very beginning, and unfortunately we have kept right in many areas from the beginning – although we have been repeatedly called a terrifying person and have even been accused as a hetzer and much, much more, but right we have kept. And this also shows that you do not have the ability to do so on all of these future issues, where citizens expect you to eventually take control of the decision-making power. Be honest: In reality, we need to make a new election decision today! Today, in reality, a new electoral decision should be taken, because you are no longer able to lead this country in the interests of the Austrians and ultimately get it out of the crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would be necessary! – But, well, you probably won’t do that, no question, because, of course, until the last day, you’ll cling to the power you still have, which no longer corresponds to the current survey values. But it will come the day of the next election, and of course it will also come the day of billing, and of course it will also come that day, where you can't go further than until now. [[Abg. Rädler: With the FPÖ!]] But until then we will ensure that the Austrians also hear the truth. I am very glad that the union is also going to court very, very critically with this mutilation brake, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. You may then still say that many also in the trade union of course have no joy at all with this mutilation brake, because they also recognize this very “honestness” which I have now addressed and know what a shame is behind it. So I think it is time for honesty, time for truth, time to admit that the euro, as a forced currency, which has been imposed on us, cannot work in different economies. And it's time to finally accept that you don't pay healthy money into a broken system that is condemned to fail. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the consequence of what we have to think about today: How can we limit the damage that is present and done today and not further expand and potentate? And, of course, it will be necessary to admit this once and also to think about a Nord-Euro - and a South-Euro-zone, what the Germans and the French at least do in secret, because they are also quite slow about that, when Italy gnaws in, which was naturally infected by the rescue shield – because the very opposite of what has always been done to us was the danger of infection for other countries. – if Italy continues to slid into the crisis, we can no longer finance it. It must be clear to us! But the Greens will then explain how we finance the two and a half thousand billion. Whoever wants to make us know from the government bank that Austria will not meet if Italy slid in there, he really believes he can present us with an X for a U. Of course, if Italy were to slumber into the crisis, we would also hang with it whether it was the Bank Austria or other mechanisms that would then swerve us into this crisis. That is exactly what we do not want, and we would have handled differently from the beginning. But there you were not willing to listen to us, nor were you willing to give us, at least in one area or another, critically questionablely right. We should have released those countries that did not comply with the euro criteria from the euro zone at the latest at the beginning of this crisis! Unfortunately, God was not ready for this, and now we are presented with the invoice: The damage is increasing from week to week. The crisis meetings accumulate from week to week, and every few weeks there is again a new crisis meeting in the European Union, where there is no more and no less to pump healthy money into a system that has already failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say the courage of Frank Stronach is quite a great one. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] - I'll be at the end of the sentence. – Stronach has rightly spoken of a miscarriage in relation to the euro. I'm saying it differently. I say: The euro is a dead birth! The euro is condemned to failure – still with the managers who unfortunately do not lead us out of the crisis today, but even further into it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e56467	The next speaker was Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. The total residence time of your group is 2 minutes, I am setting it up. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e56489	Mr. Strache, do you have someone else to paper? You have now had a week's time to come up with proposals here. [[Abg. May. Stefan: 51 applications we have here!]] You probably have taken the floor now, out of deep disappointment about the statements made by your own club colleagues, to correct. [[Abg. Strache: You can vote in our requests!]] Mr. Strache, you should have been really upset about yourself. If you had realized from the beginning all your claims you presented here, the budget would have ended, the debts would have exploded and the Triple A would have been gone long ago. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I say something to you – I do not know what interests you represent: This week we have said x-fold, because of the distribution in Austria, because of the fact that 1 percent of the population have 27 percent of the funds, that 10 percent of the population have 85 percent of real estate assets, you have to think about and realize over a millionaire tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] - That's abominable! You are a self-proclaimed representative of the “little ones” and “middles”, but you do not put this into practice here. In fact, they are verbose in the sense. [[Abg. Strache: Where is your request?]] Yes, you are. That's why I'm telling you – and you can still be so upset! –: That's going to be Don't improve your situation! [[Abg. Stache: Let's make an application together! Let us make a common request at the beginning of December!]] One last point: If you really want to get out of the euro zone, say that! But if you tell us what to do with the Austrian economy the next day, tell us what to do with the employees, tell them that up to one million Austrians depend on export jobs! In other words, we need the euro, we need membership in the euro area, we need membership in the EU to continue to ensure prosperity in Austria, pension systems, health systems, social systems, so that we have a dynamic economy and are competitive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] As long as you are unable to really put that on the table, you are completely unbelievable, Mr Klubobmann!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e56591	There are no more words available to me. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We first come to the vote on the oral amendment tabled by Mrs Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, to refer this draft law back to the Committee on Budgets in 1510. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this referral request to give an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Hagen: The only reason!]] – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now come to the votes on the Federal Finance Act 2012 and investments in 1510 of the supplements. The following amendments were tabled: Amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Mag. Mr Kogler, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, and Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Fazekas, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. First of all, I will vote on Appendices I to IV and then on the text of the Federal Finance Act, as amended by the Committee's report, and then, in accordance with the classification, I will vote in favour of these amendments. Those brought in to the draft Federal Finance Act 2012 I shall put to the vote the motions for resolutions following the third reading in the order in which they are put to the vote. We shall therefore vote on Appendix I – Federal estimates 2012 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to agree to this sign. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Debtmaker!]] – This is accepted by a majority. This means that we can vote on Appendix II – Staff Offices – gross representation as part of the Committee's report. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is also accepted by a majority. We therefore proceed to the vote on Appendix III – Financing, Currency Exchange Agreements – gross representation as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is also accepted by a majority. The vote will now be taken on Appendix IV – Staff Plan. The representatives of Jakob Auer, Krainer, Mag. Kogler, Bucher, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Part II.A, 02 Parliamentary Directorate and Annex 3 – 02 Federal legislation. Whoever joins these changes, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning Part II.A, Part II.A, 05 People's Procuratorate and 11 interiors. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of these amendments to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Now we are voting on the remaining parts of Annex IV – Staff Plan, not yet coordinated, as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of a sign that is acceptable. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2012, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2012 together with investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. This adopted the 2012 budget. As announced, we now proceed to a series of votes on the resolutions submitted to the Federal Finance Act 2012. The vote will take place in the order of submission taking account of this request for a name-name vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues in the World Heritage Site Steinhof-Gründe (Annex 1/34 EA). The request made by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, ladies and gentlemen for the freezing of funds and exit from the ELGA project (Annex 1/26 EA) has been withdrawn for a nominal vote. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the failure of confidence in the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act (Annex 1/1 EA). In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to do so. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the possibility of the Administrative Court to decide meritorically (Annex 1/2 EA). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stefan, colleagues on the extension of the public prosecutor's control rights (Annex 1/3 EA). I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Strache: Cost no money, brings money – but is also rejected!]] I shall bring the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stefan, colleagues on the option for politicians in the Old settlement and pension system to vote in the New settlement and pension system (Annex 1/4 EA). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. [[Abg. Street: (in the direction of ÖVP) Where are the Politmillionaires? Why are the politic millionaires sitting?]] – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz, colleagues, on: Enough paid – administrative reform now! (Annex 1/5 EA). I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution by Mrs Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the provision of funds for a study on forced marriage (Annex 1/6 EA). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act (Annex 1/7 EA). In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. Two of the cited constitutional provisions require the presence of half of the Members, I expressly note them at first. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. There is also a motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert, colleagues on each of them concerning his own right of employment and remuneration for the police and the German army (Annex 1/8 EA). I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, colleagues, on the extension of the Court of Auditors' audit competence (Annex 1/9 EA). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this motion for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues, on savings in the field of asylum and tourism in favour of security tasks (Annex 1/10 EA). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Members of the Mayerhofer, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a resolution on better remuneration for executives in basic police training (Annex 1/11 EA). I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Windholz, fellow Members on the abolition of security directives (Annex 1/12 EA). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will also be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Herbert, colleagues on the procurement of ballistic vests for the executive (Annex 1-13 EA). I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hübner, colleagues, on savings measures in the field of foreign policy (Annex 1/14 EA). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, colleagues and others have tabled a motion for a resolution on the reduction of the funds for the Austrian Society for Development Cooperation (ADA) (Annex 1/15 EA). I'm looking for a sign in case of consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues, on funds for the training of family judges in connection with care disputes (Annex 1/16 EA). I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Lausch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion for a resolution on the necessary increase in the E2a and E2b planning centres for executives in the judicial service (Annex 1/18 EA). I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Fichtenbauer, colleagues, on the feasibility of the constitutional tasks of the Austrian Federal Army (Annex 1/19 EA). I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who stand for it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, ladies and gentlemen, on the increase in the motivation of the group (Annex 1/20 EA). Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Podgorschek, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a motion for a resolution on no fleet-kilometre restrictions on motor vehicles (Annex 1/21 EA). I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who stand for it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the introduction and provision of resources for the automatic annual adjustment of the amount of care to inflation (Annex 1/22 EA). I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The rapporteurs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein, ladies and gentlemen, tabled a motion for a resolution on the presentation of investment in accessibility (Annex 1/23 EA). Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Neubauer, ladies and gentlemen, on the provision of funds for a pension adjustment in 2012 at the level of the Pensionist Price Index (Annex 1/24 EA). I'm looking for a sign in case of consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. There is also a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, on the introduction and provision of funds for the Blum-Bonus Neu (Annex 1/25 EA). Whoever approaches this request, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, on the freezing of funds and exit from the ELGA project (Annex 1/26 EA). In case of consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Vote on a motion for a resolution by Mr Vock, colleagues, on the full tax deductibility of donations for animal and environmental protection (Annex 1/27 EA). In case of your consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the restructuring of the school authorities (Annex 1/28 EA). I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. MEPs Dr. Rosenkranz, ladies and gentlemen have tabled a resolution on education justice for all school attempts – more budget also for the AHS (Annex 1/29 EA). If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues, on: Link German courses to family allowance and child benefit (Annex 1/30 EA). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Inlands, colleagues and colleagues on the protection and preservation of the German language (Annex 1/31 EA). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Members of Parliament on the promotion of the tax deductibility of art and cultural sponsorship (Annex 1/32 EA). I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Riemer, colleagues, on the introduction of a subsidy transparency database in the fields of art and culture (Annex 1/33 EA). We stand for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. MEPs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, have tabled a motion for a resolution on the World Heritage Site in Steinhof-Gründe (Annex 1/34 EA). The vote has been taken on this subject. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the World Heritage Site in Steinhof-Gründe, 'Yes' vote, those who vote against to cast 'No' vote. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name; Member of the European Parliament Auer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e57075	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e57114	I will resume the interrupted sitting, ask the honourable Members to take up their seats again and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 171; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 68, No votes: 103. The motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the World Heritage Site in Steinhof-Gründe, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarmer, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; noise, lights, linden, list; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Inland waterways; Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Incubators, eaters; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser; Haberzettl, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muchitsch, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pendl, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e57295	We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the principle of the country of origin (Annex 1/35 EA). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Strache: The only ones who really work is the opposition!]] MEPs have also tabled a resolution on Uni-Millarde by 2015 (Annex 1/36 EA). Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues in the research community (Annex 1/37 EA). If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Strache: Again a savings proposal that was rejected!]] Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues and others have tabled a resolution on the overall strategy for infrastructure for Austria (Annex 1/38 EA). I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who stand for it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on the reintroduction of IFB (Annex 1/39 EA). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Members of Parliament Dr. Lichtenecker, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a resolution on funding gap in millions for the implementation of the FTI strategy and the submission of a Research Finance Act (Annex 1/40 EA). I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. Haider, colleagues on the removal of the flight charge (Annex 1/41 EA). Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Haider, ladies and gentlemen, on reintroduction of the energy tax refund for tourism companies (Annex 1/42 EA). Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Strache: This is what we've got in with ELGA ten times!]] Members of Parliament Themessl, colleagues and others have tabled a resolution on LED leasing initiative for municipalities and enterprises (Annex 1/43 EA). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the rescue of historical ensemble and protection from building speculation (Annex 1/44 EA). I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I am bringing forward the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, on the maintenance of the 13th century. Family aid (Annex 1/45 EA) to the vote. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who stand for it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, on the introduction of a family-friendly tax system (Annex 1/46 EA). In case of your support, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Members of the Windbüchler-Souschill, Members of Parliament, have tabled a resolution on Child Rights Monitoring Committee to review the implementation of the Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children (Annex 1/47 EA). I'm looking for a sign in case of your consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Mühlberghuber, colleagues, on the adaptation of family aid for EU/EEA citizens (Annex 1/48 EA). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. There is also a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues, on the ban on the cultivation of the 'Fortuna' gene potato (Annex 1/49 EA). If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of the Abg. Jakob Auer) What about the peasantry?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You're for gene potatoes?]] I put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues on transparency in the federal proposal 2012 concerning the real costs of public relations of the Ministry of Life (Annex 1/50 EA). I ask for a sign in the event of her consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled a resolution on Europe-wide uniform liability rules for nuclear power plants (Annex 1/51 EA). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament on: Enough paid – tax reform now! I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President, on the stop of payment for the Member States. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:57:04]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-11-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e57566	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications from 1727/A(E) to 1761/A(E). Questions 9803/J to 9959/J were also raised. Finally, a question by Mr Grosz has been put to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 7.58 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
