ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6178	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 102. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 99. Meeting of 30 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 31. ==References====External links==* Official website Deputies of Keck, Amon and Dr. Winter are reported as prevented. [[09:06:20]] Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6212	The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a notice that, apart from Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Mr. State Secretary has been re-appointed the mandate he has given on the occasion of his appointment as a member of the Federal Government. This means that Parliamentary Jochen Pack has been expelled from the National Council. Since the election is already in place and the Member of Parliament appointed to the National Council is present in the House, I shall immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the woman writer, the representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6245	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6266	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6282	I warmly welcome Mr Dr. Lopatka in our midst.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6305	For business treatment, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6329	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! According to § 50 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the agenda. This is because today, under Agenda items 2 and 3, we are to carry out a vehement attack on fundamental and freedom rights and also on data protection in communication data of all citizens according to the will of the major parties, with the provisional decision of the storage of data. The EU Evaluation Commission has the EU Directive, which is to be implemented today, with its 18th report. ==References====External links== We therefore decide today what is based on an obsolete EU directive. We have vehemente wall against this decision – not only we, but also parts of the SPÖ, we know. We therefore call for a business debate on these objections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6371	In accordance with Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, as stated by Mr Westenthaler, Members of Parliament, Bucher, colleagues and others have also raised objections in writing to the agenda for today's sitting. These objections concern the decommissioning of points 2 and 3. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. In the debate under Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit the speaking time to 5 minutes and the number of speakers per club to 3. First of all, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please. [[09:09:27]] Objections against the agenda as set out in § 50(1) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6411	Ladies and gentlemen! Highly fully assembled Federal Government! Madam President. Dear Watchers on TV screens! It is already necessary to hold this discussion here in front of a broad public, so that people can learn about it, because so far this debate has flourished rather in the background of what this Federal Government has available under Agenda items 2 and 3 on the storage of stock records today. Imagine: The European Union has issued a directive to store stock data – i.e. communication data, telephone numbers, IP data, i.e. web addresses of homepages, e-mail data – for more than six months in order to combat terrorism and organised crime. What does the Austrian Federal Government, the Ministry of the Interior, do together with the Ministry of Justice? – You organise a major attack on fundamental and freedom rights by law! We strongly reject this, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Imagine the following: Today's decision makes it possible that in any suspicion – not only in the fight against terrorism and organised crime – that, in any suspicion, even in the event of a third party being committed, the authorities – prosecutors, police, whoever – can, without judicial approval, without control, access to the communication data of any citizen/citizen in Austria! You can access telephone call data, telephone numbers, homepages, text messages, e-mail data, and so you can understand who a citizen has communicated with! Now I look up at the gallery and say who is particularly affected, namely the members of the Journalism department. This profession will be particularly affected by today's decision, because this decision today means that the end of the secret of the editor, the end of the secret of the lawyer, the end of the secret of the doctor, because immediately every authority, even at every attempt, can access any data and, of course, explore who is an informant, who communicates with the journalist, with whom [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] This one has recently agreed, and so on. That's a scandal you're going to decide today! The SPÖ knows this and therefore does not feel comfortable with it either. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have to imagine this: The whole thing takes place without judicial approval! So far, a prosecutor, when ordering house searches, when data are retrieved, needed a court order. And in the future, this will be done in Austria without judicial approval! I have looked at how the other countries do, and I can say: In other countries, of course, judicial approval is necessary. Only in one other country does not require judicial approval. And you know what? In Italy! I welcome you from the Austrian Federal Government: They have changed the Austrian judicial system to the "System Italy", to the "Bunga-Bunga system", ladies and gentlemen. That's your performance that you're doing today! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They shoot beyond the goal of ÖVP and SPÖ, and you also contradict dozens of constitutional experts, but also the Data Protection Council. Where is Mr Maier, the chairman of the Data Protection Council? – Mr Maier, I have hundreds of quotes here from you that show that you are against data storage. Mr Maier, you have the opportunity to vote against it today. You only have two possibilities: either to vote against this Data Storage Act here in the House – or to resign as Chairman of the Data Protection Council, because then you have failed, Mr Maier. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] I also know that Mr Pendl does not want to. I know Mr Jarolim doesn't want to. I also know that Klubobmann Cap does not really want this decision. And yesterday the government came and called us a motion for a resolution on the table. You know what's in there? – This is even the very best: That is the perversion of democracy, the rule of law and parliamentarianism! The two government parties already know that the EU Commission's evaluation report, which has been available for a few days, declared the Data Storage Directive to be obsolete, because serious shortcomings have been identified because the protection of personal data is not guaranteed and because there are massive fundamental rights violations – and the constitutional courts are already tipping this regime in the individual national states. This, ladies and gentlemen, is in the evaluation report of the EU Commission, and there is the announcement by the EU Commissioner responsible that this directive will be completely renewed and come out again in December. But what are the two government parties doing here today? . Instead of taking these two agenda items off the agenda, because it is absolutely obsolete in the EU, and waiting until December, they want to have them decide on it today, and to put in place a motion for a resolution stating that, if necessary, when amending the EU Directive, this wrong law can be amended again. That's a scandal! You know from SPÖ and ÖVP that today you decide an impotence, which makes it possible for people to be stifled like in worst Stasi times! We reject this, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we have to press the button today, and we are asking for it. Again: Down with this stock data storage from the agenda! Back to the start and wait for the new EU directive to come about! No one forces us to take this decision today. I therefore appeal not only to Mr Maier, not only to the Clubobmann Cap, but also to the ÖVP, to accept our request to remove Agenda items 2 and 3 from the agenda, because it is not necessary to stifle people across the board and, so to speak, to put all 8 million Austrians under general suspicion and to open the door and door to neglect. That is our concern today!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6571	Mr Dr. Jarolim is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6593	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Westenthaler, I think more herb and beet, as has now been presented in this strange speech, can no longer be mixed. You've got to figure out what we're talking about here. This is about the implementation of a European directive, which unfortunately God – we were vehemently opposed at the time – was decided by your Minister of Justice Gastinger in the pan-European context in 2005. And here you have to take your own nose and ask yourself why this act was set at the time, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that today is so much against this decision, which at the time was the cause of the discussion we are now having, is significant for you, Mr Westenthaler, and for my ladies and gentlemen from the BZÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is it really about? We have an EU directive. This is European law, and we should have implemented this directive a year and a half ago. At this time, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Bures, has vehemently committed herself to implementing this directive in such a way that it complies with the strictest standards of fundamental law and has now been successful. We have an EU directive here, and if it is not implemented - and you know it very well, Mr Westenthaler - and I find it embarrassing that you are not saying this, but rather putting the discussion on the head, Austria has to make a fine of €30 million! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The directive is obsolete!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The directive no longer exists, it has long been obsolete!]] This is European law and we are implementing it. That's a fact once. That is why we have drafted a law here which, in my view, does not allow any more objection. We have the right of judicial approval. There, where prosecutors have to approve, we have provided for two prosecutors. We have made a comprehensive hearing, ladies and gentlemen, and we have incorporated the results of this hearing into appropriate regulations and proposals. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was devastating!]] The reason why you are having the debate here is to prevent the submission of these applications from being informed of these applications, because the applications can only be submitted in business order in the following debate. That is why you are here pretending that there are no such requests, ladies and gentlemen, where all these improvements are included. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true! Without judicial approval!]] We've all been in the hearing. We all discussed what can be improved. We all agreed to today's agenda. And we all know which party will come with what requests. What you have been criticizing today is exactly what will not happen because these points will be eliminated with the remaining requests, Mr Westenthal. And if you are now dealing with the population as if it were not, then it is simply and simply not just wrong, but it is repulsive, disinformed and does not justify the House, the Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of playing down something, but rather of informing the people about what is actually a matter, and that is the exact opposite of what you have said, Mr Westenthal. I am therefore looking forward to the debate today in the early afternoon, where information and information about it can be given by us. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Without judicial approval!]] But what you have done here today, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, did not fit. You also know very well that the EU Commission is now evaluating the directive currently in force. The first report is to be expected December this year. How should Austria, which is subject to the directive, anticipate the results of this debate, which only ends in December, and already conform to it in this law today, Mr Colleague? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wait, like the Sweden!]] It just doesn't work. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Wait!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] No, that's just not right, ladies and gentlemen! We have to implement European law, and my wish is that all those who are acting in the European debate here today should have done so. The colleague Gastinger wasn't. I hope that we will work together in the European Union in the future in such a way that such directives will no longer be implemented in this form. I imagine this as a problem solution, but not what you're doing here today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6736	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6757	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Jarolim, we actually had a hearing from experts in the Committee on Justice. There were five experts – and four out of five experts have absolutely qualified this bill. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: ( towards SPÖ) Your expert too!]] It cannot be remembered for any human beings of good sense or, in fact, from the historical beliefs of the SPÖ that are known to me, in a sense that respects fundamental and freedom rights, that the “glass man” should be the judicial example of the future of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is historically disappointing, which is disappointing from the point of view of respect for fundamental and freedom rights, and this also gives profound justice to skepticism – not the rejection of the European Union, but to skepticism – which the Freedom Party is justified in many matters. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] Bearing in mind the deliberations in the Committee on Justice, I would like to point out that very qualified proposals have been made for a counterbalance between changing the current criminal process law or the telecommunications right of the EU's threatening procedural design against Austria. We do not have to decide on this law today, so we are in favour of the amendment, especially as the result of the impressive debates you have also announced in the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, in order to make this law more pleasant in the second reading, perhaps more tasty. [[Consistency with FPÖ and BZÖ as well as with the Abg. Tadler]] However, I would like to say that it cannot be done so pleasantly that the Freedom Party agrees, because the “glass man” is not what could be conceived as the content of fundamental and freedom rights and their design for our group. They submitted the amendment only two days ago, and, bearing in mind the high importance that this law entailed in a negative sense for the Austrian population, a sufficient follow-up to the debate in order to satisfy the subject cannot be implemented in this short term. While it is true that the agenda has been agreed in the Presidency, the proposed amendment has only come after that, which is why it would be justified: Back to the Justice Committee and get away with this matter from today's agenda! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6827	Mr Mag. Donnerbauer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6848	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What is going on here today, what Mr Westenthaler and the BZÖ have started here, is not only a very transparent maneuver, but, in my opinion, a smooth abuse of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Westenthaler. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] What you are doing here is not to raise objections to the Rules of Procedure – you have, by the way, all agreed to; today's agenda has been agreed by common agreement, by all five political groups in this House – but you are now trying to prefer a substantive debate that we still have today. [[Abg. Kickl: You didn't listen!]] The items are on the agenda – you want to put them off the agenda, we want to discuss them today, at the time that we have agreed together. We clearly reject this maneuver, so to speak, to begin discussions on content, to lead during television time and thus to misuse the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't you have any debates on the subject today?]] [[Abg. Strache: It’s unpleasant when the citizens come up with what you’re doing!]] [[Subsequent calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We're not shy of the debate, we're not afraid, I'm going to talk about it. We are not afraid of the debate, but it is, I believe, a smooth abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which is being carried out here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, also you in front of the televisions and here on the gallery you listen to us today! These controversial proposals were discussed very long and intensively. It has been discussed at government level for more than a year. One has not made it easy, one has come across many objections, has taken them into account. A hearing has been carried out in the judicial committee, as we have already heard. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everyone was against that – except for your experts! 4 : 1!]] It wasn't all against it. Since this hearing – and this has been more than a month since – we have held further intensive discussions and, as a result, we are preparing today for an amendment and a number of accompanying measures that we want to introduce. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fichtenbauer has said that the time is not enough to examine our amendment tabled two days ago. This is the amendment! [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the application up to date.]] There are a total of three points to be debated. I mean, Mr Fichtenbauer, it is by no means such that you cannot examine these three points in two days and give this bill today the approval. But now to the content page, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It is about storing data, which is already being stored by telecommunications companies, by providers, in the future under legal conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: All the worse!]] If these data continues to be stored in the future, then it is also necessary – and we insist – that law enforcement authorities have access to it under certain conditions and in certain serious offences that it can be established that the Internet and telecommunications facilities cannot be legalised. That is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, and we are going to implement this law today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] To say one thing: There has been a strange alliance against this law here. It is now evident who is in favour of the security of citizens and who is not. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] What you want is that crimes in child pornography, terrorist danger, but also stalking, for example, can no longer be persecuted, that there is no longer a chance to find out in these areas that there is no longer any chance of investigating the perpetrators and also taking preventive action. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – We reject that! We want clear framework conditions, legal framework conditions. We want a clear control. We want judicial control, independent justice, and that is guaranteed by this law. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a dangerous threat!]] This is not a dangerous threat, but, of course, it is in the sense of the security of people, the security of citizens. In conclusion, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen: This is a transparent maneuver that you start here with this objection debate, and that is to be rejected. The content debate must be held and it will be held today. We have good reasons with our measures to assume that a right and good law is being passed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7028	Mr Mag. Steinhauser is next reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7049	Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that the government is a little sluggish because we are disrupting the government party with an opposition attack. Some have just taken the flight, obviously the new ones have to stay here, but this is obviously the fate of the new entrances that they have to hold the position. This referral request to the Justice Committee has full authority. The criticism goes from the EU itself, which no longer believes in its directive, as the evaluation shows, to the Data Protection Council, which has criticized it, to the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights, which has been commissioned by the Ministry of Infrastructure with a proposal for a law, and believes that it is not possible to implement fundamental rights. In the Committee on Justice, which has already been mentioned, five experts have spoken against it, and the SPÖ has also suffocated in such a way that it was visible with a clear eye. I have been here in Parliament for a few years now and have now experienced a spectacle that I have never seen before. During the Committee meeting, the club members came head and head and cap and stood behind the representatives of their political groups to ensure discipline in their own ranks, because there was obviously a risk that this concern would not go through the committee. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The whip bangers have come!]] – I say: rightly, because you may have to explain at first what the data store is. Those who are in charge of data storage should also support a law that states that the post should document each letter concerning the questions: Who sent the letter? Who got the letter? When was the letter sent? Nothing else happens in the storage of data, just as regards emails at another technical level. Everyone here in Parliament would say the post concerning: That's totalitarian, that's unworthy of a democracy, but the emails don't interest anyone. [[Congratulations and prejudices in the greens and in the case of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Those who are for the storage of stock data could use the same permissions at every corner of this city to set up a tick that writes down who comes by. Nothing else is the location data. We all have cell phones, are logged in to radio cells. The radio cells store where we move. This is nothing but an accurate monitoring of who found himself where. At the tip at the corner of the house, everyone would say: This is totalitarian, which reminds of past regimes that thank God has been overcome!, but at the location data everyone says these belong used. That, ladies and gentlemen, is an intervention in Article 8 EMRK: Right to respect for private and family life! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I have a lot of understanding for your government, but I believe that this is at least as interesting to Parliament and the citizens. If Mr Donnerbauer says that you see who is for safety and who is not for safety, I invite him to ask the black and yellow government in Germany. There the data storage of stocks was first implemented, then withdrawn and evaluated by the Supreme Court, and it was found that the intelligence rate in connection with Internet crime or Internet-affined crime has not changed in any way. There has been no higher education at all. What remains is the danger of abuse. Germany is not an individual case. Not only in Germany has the storage of data been abolished by the Supreme Court, but also in Bulgaria and Romania – no coincidence – one is clearly more sensitive there, of course – in the Czech Republic and Cyprus. Sweden has not implemented the rules. So we wouldn't be alone with that. The Commission itself no longer believes in this project – and now Austria is doing almost late?- Oh, my God! For example, if it is stated that the storage of data is so to speak, the criminals and the terrorists in the visor, it is necessary to say that it is relatively easy to protect themselves from data storage, namely by concealing the IP address, by anonymous value-card telephones and by public Internet access. It is to be expected that those – organised crime and terrorists – who have data storage in sight will protect themselves. What remains are the citizens who must be afraid of abuse of their data. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and bzö.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen: Back to the start! The fundamental rights in this country still have to count! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7110	Mr Mag. Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7147	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I join my previous speaker: Fundamental rights need to be safeguarded not only in this country but also in Europe. Therefore, the approach alone and exclusively is to combat the data storage directive at European level. That's what we're confessing! [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] This directive was approved by Mr Scheibner, BZÖ, in 2005, and I cannot remember that the Freedom Party has ever rejected the storage of data. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are Chairman of the Data Protection Council! You are chairman of the Data Protection Council, so withdraw this!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have been dealing with data storage issues since 2001. I have never experienced a representative of the BZÖ who opposed data storage in 2005, 2006. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Westenthaler, Mr Stadler, where have you been? Did you sleep? I don't know any positioning of you! Similar to the position of the Freedom Party. I share in part your fundamental criticism of this European directive, only, Mr President, I very much respect it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then reject them!]] Ladies and gentlemen: Austria has agreed to the 2006 Council of Ministers, and we are now facing the problem of its being an existing European law. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Completely stupid!]] And the Commission calls for European law to be implemented as well. Now I wonder – at the address of the Greens –: There are debates in which the Greens call for compliance with European legislation, for example in the field of asylum – and not in this area? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It's about human rights!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What's this about? – It is about working together at European level – and that was always the objective of the Austrian Data Protection Council. We were the only ones who have pointed out this since 2001, and unfortunately we were not heard in 2005 and 2006. There was also little reporting on this data storage directive. Only two years ago, when it came to its implementation, did the legitimate criticism come. And now the argument came from you that Constitutional Courts had withdrawn or declared void the storage of data. There must be a clear and clear distinction: The German Federal Constitutional Court has not in itself declared the storage of data to be void, but only the implementation. [[Abg. Scheibner: Come on!]] Other Supreme Courts have referred to Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. It is only so that we can already be clear here in this House under European law: A single institution is able to examine the question of whether or not there is fundamental rights compatibility with the Data Storage Directive, and that is the European Court of Justice. Ireland has brought such proceedings before the European Court of Justice, which is likely to be decided at the end of this year. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I am fully aware of the problem and I would like to say again quite clearly and clearly: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, that's it?- Oh, my God!]] All your criticism, Mr Westenthaler, is like a bubble of air, because you have never said anything about it in recent years! Her Minister Karin Gastinger did not follow the proposals of the Data Protection Council, but agreed to the Council of Ministers of the European Union. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: My minister? Is she a member of the BZÖ? Since when?]] She could have prevented this, but unfortunately she didn't.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7304	Mr Mag. Stadler is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7325	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens! First of all, a preliminary remark to Mr Donnerbauer: The ÖVP has always been relatively equal to fundamental rights. That is why Mr Donnerbauer's comments are no longer surprising, and I am not going to go into them at all. I only thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for avoiding him as a new Minister of Justice. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] I focus on SPÖ, because you, ladies and gentlemen, have made clear statements. Mrs Oberhauser, you have even left the committee meeting. Mr Maier, who has just spoken, has also left the Committee meeting. He had to tolerate the clubman as a watchman behind him, so he'd have to stay on the coalition line. All of this has been perceived – not only by us, but also by the Greens; Mr Steinhauser referred to it earlier. And today, Mr Jarolim and Mr Maier came to the speaker's desk and made bends that are Olympic suspects. I have rarely experienced such political perversions as both of you have achieved this despite your difficulty. Mr Maier, even the expert, nominated by you, Dr. Hannes Tretter, told you: first: not in accordance with fundamental rights – there were Secondly, it shakes – and secondly, it does not necessarily mean that the EU directive is being implemented in this way, and thirdly: wait for other countries to do the same. What does Mr Jarolim say today? – It is essential that all of this be done immediately, and we must implement EU law. And then Mr Maier falsely said that he shared the criticism of the directive, but the implementation is not so dangerous. – You have kept silent that the implementation goes beyond the directive, ladies and gentlemen. That's the fact! Therefore, the criticism of the directive must be all the more attached to your draft. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Where was your EU legal conformity when you put the billions on the table for the Greeks, although there was a clear contract arrangement? - That was meaty! If the billions of taxpayers land on the Greek tablet, then EU law does not play a role. But when it comes to stalking citizens, one is grateful that one has an EU directive, and then even the Data Protection Council is playing – Mr Maier just wanted to leave the room, and he is not going to bear it anymore. Mr President of the Data Protection Council, even if you have an urgent need, please stay here for a few minutes. The Chairman of the Data Protection Council no longer has this debate because he is aware that, as a data protection lawyer, he could never agree to this proposal if he was not bound to the coalition discipline that his clubman must ensure for him or for the Austrian People's Party. That's the fact! [[It was in favour of BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as of representatives of the Greens.]] Do we want to quote Maier? – Mr Maier, you can stand tight. I quote: “The data storage of stocks is basically even a departure from the principle of confidentiality of communication due to a general distrust of all people.” – End of the quote. [[Oh, call at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Rarely did I like to quote Maier. – He found himself again and took a seat again. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, I therefore appeal to you: There is no reason to decide. That even says your own expert, Dr. Tretter. Your own expert said: It is not at all necessary to do this now. – By the way, they are much further in delay with other directives, which would be much more important, and you have no pressure either. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens, do you really want to hand over to the police instruments that have led to, for example, a chief editor of a well-known newspaper a few weeks ago? He's been told by chance. And do you know how the chief of police justified himself? – He said: That was a b’open layer! A fundamental “b’open layer”! A few weeks ago, the newly retired Minister of Justice had to admit that 23 officials from the judicial department had to be suspended because they had unlawfully passed on confidential data to private data dealers against “braves” charges. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want to make available to those who have this call data, this storage of data you are planning? I'll tell you: Not even the judges have to participate in any decision. That is the biggest thing at all, where it is said as a rule of law that a judge must at least participate in the rule of law if a fundamental right is taken into account. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How in Italy!]] In Italy and now also in Austria no longer. Why? – Because this is what the black ministers wish for and the reds are well-suited, although they have expressed very different views in the Committee. That is what I call the Olympicist bendings of social democracy, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jarolim, I could now quote from the documents for a long time, because it is not as you said. The European Union itself has said that it has to rework this – that is what Mr Maier has admitted – and it is quite clear that this directive – that is also said by the German Bundestag – cannot be implemented in accordance with fundamental rights at all. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7407	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7428	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You too, Martin!]] “You too, Martin!” – I was a little surprised that colleague Westenthaler came out of here and “uplifted” this debate, but it was the Causa Westenthaler, who was an occasion or three occasions to set up the so-called Spittel Investigation Committee, and then it was stored stock data that finally cleared up: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: From your own experience! My phone!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As a victim!]] Was there this ominous call, claimed by Mr Westenthaler, that he got it from a police officer, or didn't he? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That never voted! You know exactly that never did!]] He obviously didn't exist. At any rate, there was no data, although Westenthaler had claimed otherwise in a party assembly. So sometimes it can make sense to access such stored data, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So when it comes to opposition?! – That’s incredible!]] Unpolitically translated: It sometimes surprises when someone who has so much butter on his head enters the sun of a debate and then has to take note of the consequences. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When it comes to oppositional politicians, then...!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He gives it up! Bravo! Very good!]] Because Mr Westenthaler has also presented the evaluation report of the EU Commission, which is available and which we know, here: It's always about seeing the glass half full or half empty. In fact, this evaluation report announces that the Commission will propose amendments to this Directive, but, Mr Westenthaler, it would have been fair to quote also the passages that are directly addressed to Austria, namely the implementation of the Directive, says the Commission in this evaluation report. The Commission is following the situation in Austria closely. The Commission expects this Directive to be implemented as soon as possible, otherwise the Commission reserves the right and, and, [[Call the BZÖ: Should they!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you afraid of the Commission?]] So it's not like we can say: Germany's highest court, Sweden's not yet implemented, we are waiting for it, we are going to stop and see what the Commission is doing, and then we are implementing a change in the directive. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have, of course – and this has been done – the European legal obligation to do this here and today. That's necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Falsch!]] If there are amendments, if there is an amended directive, then it will be re-examined. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The second point I wonder about – and that has already been mentioned by Maier and Jarolim – is that the BZÖ is doing this, because that was an ÖVP/BZÖ government; that is right. [[Abg. Oillinger: We don't have to write down!]] It was our Karin Gastinger, but that was also your Karin Gastinger, Mr. Westenthaler, your Karin Gastinger, who has agreed to this directive in Brussels. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is the member with us? Party friends?]] It was not, therefore, an anonymous European Union, as it likes to be painted on the wall by the opposition, but we Austrians themselves, the BZÖ Minister Karin Gastinger, who has taken the decision, and that is why it has become European law. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Another point where, in a day like today and in a debate like this, you must give credit to the truth, Mr. Westenthaler, even if you would like to forget the political past – as in your case. I would have some understanding for that. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Donnerbauer, Mr Maier, it has already been concluded that this is, of course, a matter of walking around fundamental rights, civil rights and the necessary means for executives, judges, prosecutors, as well as access to data and stop crime. We're fully aware of that, it's a walk. But precisely the amendment, which has not only been in place for a few hours, but has been in place for a few days, introduces the four-eye principle in wide areas. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That is not true at all! Since yesterday!]] Police, prosecutors cannot simply do so without a colleague's voice, but have to apply the four-eye principle. This is a clear progress. So, I think, yes, it is a gratification, but a gratification that preserves citizens' rights and fundamental rights, and finally a gratification that would have actually been a part of the BZÖ, because the BZÖ Minister Gastinger presented and decided this directive and because Mr Westenthaler was at the heart of a committee of inquiry, where the storage of data was the only one in order not to confirm the claims made by Mr Westenthal, but to be able to disprove. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As a victim!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7696	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7717	High house! Let's leave the church in the village. We are here in the Austrian Parliament and not in order to address any EU directives. - That's what you have to start with. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] And if we present this argument, then we also stick to the truth. First: This directive was made on the occasion of a terrorist attack in Spain and is intended to be used against terrorism and against serious organised crime and serious crimes. What we are going to decide here in Parliament today is quite different. This is even so far that it can be used in all criminal offences which are contained in the Criminal Code and which must be committed with purpose. So let's leave the church in Village. The implementation of the directive is only entirely on the verge of implementation. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Secondly, you have already said it yourself: The Commission's own evaluation report has called this directive very into question. So there is also a problem of the EU itself. Thirdly, Ireland – which has already been mentioned – has already tried a procedure here, and it is still to be expected to see whether this procedure is not even tipped at European level. And fourthly, At the time when this Directive was adopted, the EU Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on Human Rights, was not yet in force and Article 8 was not yet in force. So there's a very different situation too. Finally, no one here in Austria can dictate that we infringe our fundamental rights in order to implement any EU directive. That's our decision! And if we find that the fundamental rights – and I am convinced of that – are massively violated, then we must defend ourselves against it and cannot simply say that we are afraid of any fines and that is why we are turning them off. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] If such a mistake has been made by a member of the government, it is our task to correct this mistake and not to follow it and use it as an argument that we are now facing our own people. The proportionality to be shown here is as follows: It is true that security is a very great value, it has always been very clear to the FPÖ, law enforcement is very important, but the proportionality that is set up here to raise a general suspicion of every citizen, to have a movement profile over every citizen, where he is moving, the removal of the secret of letters – that has been completely said by Mr Steinhauser today – is not all right. In reality, we would have to follow every letter, follow every movement of a citizen, and save half a year. This is not proportionate, even if one sees what the reports give, what added value has come out of the prosecution. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] There are dozens of reports from those countries where this data storage was already in force, which show that there has been no improvement in law enforcement at all. That is why I wonder what argument remains. In reality, it is our duty to defend us here, because the European Union has yet another attack – we know it very well. We know the discussion about the Swift Agreement, which means that all bank accounts transfers are stored and are now also passed on to the US when these oral questions are made. That's the reality! We must resist this, because the European Union is there on the wrong steamer. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Next comes the passenger data directive. Every passenger must store 19 data when it goes to the European Union, be delivered and then probably sent worldwide. Those who access it are the big question of whether intelligence services have the opportunity to view and process these data. 24 hours before you board the plane, it must be reported when you board the plane with whom you board the plane as you booked it. Ches luggage you carry, and, and, and. 19 dates! That's the nonsense that's actually going on here. We must begin to oppose it, and we must not be able to make ourselves here and say: The European Union has stated that we must deal with it today! – It is simple and simply not true that it is. This has also been shown by Sweden, for Sweden did not have to pay millions, but actually only the costs of the proceedings, because it refused to do so. And that should be a model for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7820	Mrs Dr. Moser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7842	Madam President. Ministers and ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a part of the new ÖVP cabinet is to be praised. The first act of the Spindelegger cabinet: a comprehensive intrusion of the people. [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] I have motion profiles here that arise from your decision making every cell phone call, every place from which one is taken, and every person with whom a phone call is conducted must be stored for six months, every person, without suspicion, only on preventive suspicion. [[the speaker shows a newspaper page]] Please, that goes to the mark of fundamental rights, human rights and freedom – and that is what you stand for! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] That's what you want to do to fight crime, although every little thief already knows that he only needs a B-free phone registered abroad, that he only needs to go to an internet café or just use another email address to switch and operate as he wants. He can plan the biggest attacks and will not be caught. But from now on, every unspoiled person has to cope with this storage possibility and this threat. I can't do that! It's about the substance! This is the substance of rights already established in 1848 et cetera. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I've already said: The Metternich state was comparatively harmless of what you now consider to us with your data storage possibilities. [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] Why Make You all this? - You're saying you're threatening to complain. That's the only argument you have. I can explain this to you wonderfully: There is no date for the action which will then be brought against us in the direction of fines. I was in Brussels and I inquired on the spot. The Commissioner on the ground has announced that the directive will be revised because it contradicts new EU law, the Lisbon Treaty, the Charter of Human Rights. You have to imagine this: They are now putting in place something that is now completely contrary to modern Europe, with the argument: We have to do it, otherwise we may be accused! - Please, that's insurmountable! What you do at the expense of the fundamental rights of the people is really a rossel leap in legal history – you have to imagine that! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I can only imagine one behind-thinking and a basic motive behind your course of action: You want to restrict democratic rights, restrict freedom of movement, so that your police device can use data, which, on the one hand, can be used as a criminal police force, but on the other hand also politically. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rädler as well as intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] This motive is one that really leads us to 17th and 16th. Century brings back – and you are the godfather for it! No, you're not just the godfather, you're even the culprit! That can't be! That is why we will continue to resist massively, because we Greens have first said: We must not, in principle, implement this abuse, this eradication of fundamental rights! We did not support any variation. We also did not accept the Boltzmann Institute variants – no! We were from the outset the only ones who were strictly opposed. And there is a right to all of us who now complain to the European Court of Justice like Ireland. We have the right to defend ourselves in Romania, in Bulgaria. The Sweden is behind us. The Germans have to revise everything – and we are so insurmountable and do not make it on a new basis, if at all, a law – my position is called yes – but at the last second, where the old EU law, which is still being revised, still applies, we jump on a train that brings us back to mass arousal, to the persecution of people who have no suspicions, and to an era where dictatorial abuse can be given. [[Abg. Kickl: (showing towards SPÖ and ÖVP) We do not do it anyway, the two!]] [[Abg. Kickl: (showing towards SPÖ and ÖVP) We are not the ones!]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are not just in favour of the referral request, but in favour of a motion for a resolution! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] The law as such simply belongs away, the amendment request is indisputable anyway. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] We want us in Austria to preserve, maintain and expand our fundamental rights status, which is now also European-wide, at a new level, through the Lisbon Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7980	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8002	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much to Mrs Bartenstein for his honesty! We now know, in addition to all these bending exercises by the representatives of the government parties, why we have to agree here, which is the real reason why we need this illegal implementation of the law. [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Yeah, he says it again. BZÖ. – In order to enable members of the opposition to be incarcerated in the future, as honourable Member Bartenstein has said. That's the background! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That one can stifle lawyers, that one can sharpen journalists, that one can sharpen doctors: This is the true background of this bill, which you have put on today's agenda, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pui Devil!]] And if there is still talk of illegality of the Rules of Procedure, like the chairman of the Committee on Justice, when we debate this today and say: No, we do not want to decide today to go back to the committee, there it belongs again debated! and try to reject it and turn it off, then we say: This is not a business order, it must be rejected! Yes, we have disturbed your party political party today – but we are the human rights and a law-compliant approach here more important than your PR machines! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, Mr Maier, Mrs Oberhauser, how do you feel at this meeting today? – I have experienced it in the Committee and have also acknowledged it: We have indeed made it clear that this is to be halted when the Committee is postponed, that we are really conducting substantial negotiations in order to improve it. But the ÖVP was against it. Your two clubmen have come there as watchdogs so you can only vote with them. And then it has been promised, yes, until the parliamentary debate there will still be substantial negotiations, including with the opposition – remember! – and then all of this won’t come so bad! Nothing has happened, there has been no negotiation with the opposition, only a nebulous motion for a resolution has been made, but the core points of criticism are still upright. And you have to agree to this today?- Oh, my God! Is that bad enough, but you seem to have been prescribed what you have to say for your own justification? Mr Cap probably said you should write a hundred times: The Minister Gastinger's fault is the EU! A hundred times or two hundred times, until you believe it yourself. But, Mr Maier, Mrs Oberhauser, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, who have rightly, together with four out of five experts, considered this law to be an extermination, it cannot be serious for you to believe that it is true that you really believe it, because the registration of call data with the EU directive and – apologise! – the penalty payments are one thing. So if the Commissioner himself says that this directive is bad, that it will present a better one, then I would like to complain about the European Union, then I say: Then we simply don't pay the fine! And they won't come either. But this cannot be an argument that we are doing illegal and unconstitutional things here. Second point, once again: Call data collection is one thing, and that it is also used in very limited, certain things, but we have nothing to do with it, for example, when it comes to capital crimes, when it comes to terrorism, when it comes to murder, when it comes to abductions, on judicial instructions, under very special conditions, where abuse is minimized as much as possible. You can discuss this! But You have not only implemented these EU directives here, but you have made them worse, Mr Jarolim, and you have not forced anyone to do so because: No judge is required, and there is no restriction on capital crimes. Already on any anonymous ad – anyone can call, display, approach – this instrument can be set in motion of the ad. Mr Maier, you certainly know the opinion of the Data Protection Council. The Data Protection Council has confirmed the criticism of all, has considered it destructive, it regrets that one has not been involved before. Who's the chairman, colleague Maier? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The chairman is colleague Maier!]] Yes, the chairman is Mr Maier. As Chairman of the Data Protection Council – important institution! – is he against it, but as the SPÖ MP, he is for it, ladies and gentlemen! This is the reality of the representation of interest here in the House! It is also an interesting one, no matter whether you are for it or against it, but that it is a sensitive matter is probably undisputed: Every so small law goes into consideration, but this sensitive matter of law has not even been in review. That is to say, all the relevant institutions have had no opportunity to comment. This is a Husch-Fuch-Law template, unconstitutional – and you all make the wall of this unconstitutional arrangement and then talk about the EU and the Minister Gastinger. That's bad, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8103	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8125	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen at home on TV screens! If Mr Donnerbauer said at the outset that it was only legal conditions for data storage that could have been enthusiastic. – Well, you can’t be excited. And if the ÖVP is always claimed that it is only the BZÖ anyway, then I have to say: I do not know that in a serious political debate it should actually be no matter who is to blame, but one should deal with the matter rather than hack around people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the framework conditions. – A law that is now also said by the EU to intervene in human rights can never only be a small framework condition. That's simple and just a piggy! But to the EU itself: The EU is always said to be safe. Well, I'm excited when it says: The EU is for security! The fact is, however, that: Every year, millions of people are illegally entering the EU's external borders, whether they are taking Schengen borders or other borders. But it says: The EU is for security! No one can make me understand that. The EU is for security! – That is why we have the liquid ban up to 100 millilitres at the airports, where one can take 1 litre, 2 litre bottles and the same more if one arrives from America to the EU. That's all allowed. But because of security, in Austria and in the EU, we are only allowed to take hundreds of millilitres. The EU is for security! – Therefore, it needs the passenger data, but not itself, but it needs it to pass it on to the USA. The EU is for security! – Therefore, it needs the SWIFT data, the bank data from the transfers in order to immediately pass it on to the USA. The EU is for security! – But only where it is about their own citizens to imitate them and to stifle them. The EU is not able to create genuinely safe protection against terrorism with these data. You have to say that too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If today bold citizens say: Well, I didn't do anything, I don't need to be afraid!, I have to say: Please, it's not about anyone having to be afraid because he didn't do anything, but it's about being afraid of these prosecutors and of the police! Only: The police say they don't want to, they don't want to be the handiworker of these prosecutors and that tickle. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] To the prosecutors one more word: Once you have a little time at home to surf the Parliamentary homepage, look at various questions, for example from Mr Stadler! There are prosecutors, for example, the one who has let the case of Mr. Strasser be delayed – a very "talk" guy, is still being promoted for that! Or a prosecutor who is actually only acting politically. - Before those we're supposed to act? - No, please! I'm afraid of them. Theirs is actually the craftsmanship laid. And here I would expect you, Mrs. Justice Minister, to be the first action you've taken to cold the two once. Thank you! And, Mr Bartenstein, I have learned at home as the simplest economic principle: [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Deputies Rädler and Dr. Schüssel: What does “colding” mean?]] Whoever pays, make it! We are net payers in the EU. [[Deputies Steibl and Dr. Schüssel: What does “colding” mean?]] Remove "cold places" from the profession, so that it is clear. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Good. But, please, go back to the subject! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: “Kaldstelle”, that will be yours!]] If you can discuss your own percentage, get up to date! Let's take a look, please, at: Whoever pays, make it! We are net payers in the EU, and we must now make our debut in front of those on the belly. But it really can't be! And, Mr Donnerbauer and Mr Schüssel, discuss something else: Just ask yourself who has 20 percent in this Republic! Ask who has 20 percent! Then: The citizens know who really is for security. For security the FPÖ is, but certainly not the ÖVP! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8238	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8260	Thank you very much. – Before addressing the real issue, a brief comment, which is very important to me personally: Whoever in this House, as a Member of Parliament, demands that prosecutors be colded, should consider whether he is still acting on the basis of the Austrian rule of law and the Austrian constitution. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Perhaps this is the constitution of the Freedom Party – certainly not the constitution of the majority of this House! [[Abg. Rädler: order call!]] There is enough to criticise the prosecutor's office, especially in Vienna, but also in other cities, but prosecutors cold, this is an attack on the rule of law, and that has not lost anything here. [[Abg. Rädler: order call!]] - That's one. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: An attack on the citizen is the storage of data!]] The second is: For an hour and ten minutes, the “Spindelegger Feier Hours” should take place here and the sun of the restart should shine on the new vice chancellor. [[Abg. Wöinger: Better than you!]] But after the opposition has now made sure that something more important is now being discussed than the so-called re-start of this federal government, namely the protection of the fundamental rights of unspoiled citizens in this Republic, I must say: [[Abg. Rädler: They all refused anyway!]] This is much more important to me than the question of whether the Vice-Chancellor is now called Pröll or Spindelegger. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] Excuse me, Mr Spindelegger, but it is! I would have thought that the government could get up and say: Yes, actually, this is an important topic! In fact, we will be dealing with Parliament differently now! Actually, we will deal with fundamental rights differently now! [[Abg. Strache: Why, then, only “real ”?]] In fact, we are prepared to discuss this in detail now in the Committee and to carry out a review process, because the fundamental rights of the people in this Republic are worth a proper parliamentary procedure! What's going on, Mrs. Justice Minister? What's going on, Mrs. Interior Minister? [[Federal Ministers Dr. Karl, Mag. Mikl- Leitner and Bures talk to each other.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mrs Minister, listen!]] What's going on? The Federal Chancellor chats with his party friends instead of taking part in this debate. [[Abg. May. Kogler goes to the government bank and reaches out to Federal Minister Dr. Däderle.]] [[Intervening calls and ironic cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] This also applies to my party colleague Werner Kogler. - That's it. I'm really wondering: What is being persecuted in this Republic? What is really being pursued in this Republic: Will the phones of former Finance Minister Grasser be monitored? [[Abg. Neubauer: Will the mobile phones be monitored by Mr. Pilz?]] Will the phones be monitored by ex-innenminister Strasser? Will the mobile phones be monitored by at least as cumbersome gentlemen as Mr Scheuch from the Kärntner State Government? – Of course not! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Who do you want to monitor? – Unspoiled citizens and, as the last investigation committee has shown, also Members of this House, exclusively from the opposition. Do you know what happiness grasses, streeters and sheep are? – That they are not animal protectors! If they were animal protectors, then their homes would have been searched, then their phones would have been monitored, then all the means of the rule of law would have already been used. What happens to organised crime in this Republic? Is anyone standing up from the government giant, the vice chancellor or the new finance minister, and says: Today, we are presenting an anti-corruption package, which is a package with which illegal party funding will at last be punishable, with which money laundering is punishable by the Industrial Union, which will be punishable when money flows into the party via the Chamber of Commerce, the Federal Farmers' Association or the ÖAAB, that the purchase of MEPs will be punished, that the purchase of ministers will be punished!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. May. Stefan: Then the Greens in Vienna...!]] [[Hello-Rufe at the ÖVP]] Nothing – they are all not persecuted! The really suspects for the Austrian People's Party are innocent citizens. Not the black accounts of the ÖVP are on the agenda today, but the phones of people we know only one thing: that they are certainly not suspicious, yes, that they are certainly not suspicious of having committed any crimes. Ladies and gentlemen! Why aren't you talking about the black party banks? Why aren't you talking about criminal party financing? Why aren't you talking about political corruption? Do you know where the “Causa Eurofighter” is being persecuted today? – By a prosecutor in Rome, by investigative officers in Liechtenstein, Zurich and the USA. In Austria, on the other hand, a lawyer close to the ÖVP recruits everything. That's how it looks! There's no cell phone surveillance, because this is about corruption of at least 100 million. You don't care because you know exactly where these funds were flown. But to monitor the citizens – that's what interests you! One thing I would like to know from you, in particular from you, Mrs Minister of Justice, on this first day in this House in your capacity: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Why vote You want this attack on the fundamental rights of people in this Republic? [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] And why Protect You are not the Austrian Constitution, the Austrian Parliament and the unspoiled citizens before this attack on our common fundamental rights? [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Please give us an answer!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8502	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8524	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thanks for the law!]] [[Abg. Thank you!]] High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Rules of Procedure: Parliamentaryism in order! [[Abg. Bucher: Thanks many times!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you!]] On the debate on the Rules of Procedure or the debate on amendments to the Rules of Procedure: In terms of content you can discuss a lot, yet I tell you: You are never as wrong as you are now, except that you have of course taken time to do so. I say: Let's stick to the facts! First: Mr Scheibner, the Data Protection Council has rejected and criticized as a whole the directives under discussion at that time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Maier agrees today!]] I don't want to repeat it. However, one thing is certain: You were glowing for it. But let's leave that, let's stick to the facts! [[Abg. Scheibner: Who was glowing for it? Let's stick to the facts!]] I myself have considered one or another to be worthy of improvement in the matter. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember who decided the StPO reform in this House! We showed and criticized all of this at the time. We wanted the judge not to be abolished, and we clearly wanted a significant improvement in the area of legal protection with regard to fundamental rights. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why don't you do that?]] Let's do it! Maybe you just didn't read it, dear friend! We will introduce a four-eye principle to the prosecutor's office, and we will introduce a four-eye principle to the police authorities. [[Abg. Where's the judge?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bravo!]] So if you say that this is not a qualitative improvement in terms of fundamental rights, then I have to conclude that we are talking about different things here, ladies and gentlemen, about the opposition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not a qualitative improvement of fundamental rights!]] And one thing I say with today and rereadable for all times: Mr Klubobmann Strache, Mr Klubobmann Bucher, will never speak again of information quotas, will never talk about the fight against crime, especially on the Internet, because these issues can also be seen in the context of the fight against crime! [[Abg. May. Stefan: Such a nonsense!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There you have to say in all clarity: In order to protect our citizens, of course, taking into account fundamental rights, where best protection is needed, and legal protection, where best protection must be ensured, there must be opportunities to carry out the necessary investigation activities in accordance with the present day. Ladies and gentlemen, some previous speakers have produced themselves today and in their statements have passed the justice and accused the police of passing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “And passer-by”!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] This is strongly opposed, ladies and gentlemen, because the executive of Austria is really working with all the resources available to our citizens and doing so in a way that is impeccable. I think we are all invited to provide the necessary framework conditions in the executive field. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Otto, thanks!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thanks!]] On the other hand, we must ensure that the necessary framework conditions are also available in the field of justice in the future. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (the hands fold) God protect the parliament!]] Where are the material contributions when it comes to the evaluation of the StPO reform? Where are the material contributions when it comes to carrying out the necessary up-to-date adaptations in the area of justice equipment, on the one hand, and on the other hand in the area of police equipment on the other? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't forget to thank you!]] I have invited several times from this speaker's desk to discuss these issues together in the Committee on Justice and also in the Committee on the Interior. Except that you always try to score properly here, no single content contribution has come from the opposition. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, A few weeks ago, we discussed the report on the special methods of investigation on the subject of discussion. No problem: permanent super legal protection! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Prost!]] All were happy, all were happy, I could almost say, and have applauded. But now we are not talking about conversation content, but only about call data, that is, nothing in content, and at once the world collapses. [[Abg. Oils: No, “no content”! Please!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would say: Let us, together, try to make the necessary work serious in the interests of our citizens. In this sense, I would like to invite you once again to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8841	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote. I would ask those Members who want to take account of the objections, that is to say, that points 2 and 3 should be withdrawn from the agenda in order to give a sign. [[Call BZÖ:Maier!]] – This is the minority. The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. [[10:21:42]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8873	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:21:45]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9146	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take into account at first reading the Government template concerning a federal law adopting the Federal Financial Framework Act 2012 to 2015 (1174 of the Supplements). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9170	The debate on points 2 and 3, 4 and 5, 8 and 9 and 11 and 12 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9196	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 112, FPÖ 100, Green 88 and BZÖ 84 minutes. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the honourable Member's speaking time to 10 minutes per debate without club membership. I also propose the agreed Rules of Procedure – with a change, that it does not end at 1 p.m., but after 229 minutes, as shown by the Rules of Procedure. This Rules of Procedure shall look as follows: The Federal Chancellor's statement and statement of 9 minutes each, a speaker's/redner's round with 9 minutes each, then the Federal Minister of Finance with 4 minutes, a round of 5 minutes or ÖVP 4 minutes, a round of 5 minutes or ÖVP 4 minutes, a round of 5 minutes or ÖVP 4 minutes, a round of 5 minutes or ÖVP 4 minutes, a round of 5 minutes or ÖVP 4 minutes, a round of 5 minutes or ÖVP 4 minutes, State Secretary of State at the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs 3 minutes, a round of 5 minutes or ÖVP 4 minutes, a Minister of State at the Federal Ministry of the Interior 3 minutes, a round of speakers with 5 minutes or ÖVP 4 minutes, a total of 229 minutes. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television broadcast. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I also note that the fact that the political groups have agreed on the order of the speakers in the first two rounds by contrast/pro and then by size of the group. [[10:23:57]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the appointment of the new members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9262	We reach the 1st. Agenda item. Following these statements, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9294	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, in a situation where Austria can be proud of having the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, in a situation where Austria can be proud of businesses, businesses and workers in the country, because our growth is twice as high as the forecast and already in 2010 was 2%, we are able to make economic use of this initial upturn. [[Member of the FPÖ and the FPÖ say: “Strache and FPÖ say no to open the labour market from 1. May! Our jobs for our Austrians!"]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: To think, Mr. Federal Chancellor!]] I would also like to make a positive contribution to all those points that prove that we can provide a triple A and thus excellent data, and that this is only one of those more than six countries in the European Union that have this stability and these stable finances...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9327	Federal Chancellor, one second! Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, please roll the poster back in! They showed it. So I'm asking you to take it away again. Please, Mr. Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9348	So if one can also express the prosperity of one country by calculating GDP per capita, with a value of €30 000 per head, and if one knows that we are already at the third place in Europe, then all these factors can be combined up to our health system, to the social systems and show: We have led the country better through the crisis than many predicted. On the contrary, we are not afraid of the comparison, it is noted by everyone that we have led the country through the crisis at a very difficult time with all the opportunities that our country offers to the workers who offer the economy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] For this to happen, it is necessary to set the appropriate framework conditions, which will only allow the forces of our country to be used. Therefore, at the beginning of my statement, I would like to thank those who have had a special share in this and who have played a very important and decisive role in these difficult times and now in the initial construction, which, with a lot of personal commitment, with a lot of political wisdom, have made the right decisions with a calm hand, that we can be so proud of the situation, the living conditions in our country. I would like to say a warm thank you to the then Vice-President and Minister of Finance Josef Pröll for his work and for his work for this country at a difficult time. [[I should like to congratulate SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] However, I do not want to thank all those members of the government who, with their commitment to Austria at an important time, also worked for Austria, who have worked politically, everyone in their area, in their place with a commitment, which led to us finally to say in the summary that this country is a stable country. It is a country in which, of course, much remains to be improved, but that we have come so far, the manuscript also bears all those who have been involved so far, and of course all those who will be involved in the future. So I would also like to thank Mrs Claudia Bandion-Ortner, as well as Reinhold Lopatka and Verena Remler, who as State Secretary also had an important part at that time. A warm thank you! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Well, the new members will be, I am convinced that – I know the opposition, because there is not much time at all – very soon there will be the opportunity to also present their ideas to the House and then to present their arguments in the debates. I would, however, particularly like to wish you every good for your work someone I have already met as someone, the subject matter to which the advancement of our country, political reason and commonness are very important: The former and also future Foreign Minister and new Vice-Cancellor Michael Spindelegger are all imaginable good! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, I would just as cordially like to see all the good that have come to us, as well as those who have so far heard the government and are now working in another department, who also have particularly important agendas, especially at the head of the Minister of Finance Maria Fekter, the Minister of the Interior Johanna Mikl- Leitner, the Minister of Science Karlheinz Dägenle and the two Secretary of State Sebastian Kurz and Wolfgang Waldner. Everything possible good for the work in the team! We need the team, we need this good cooperation. We all wish you the best. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Federal Chancellor! The Minister of Justice has forgotten you!]] The Minister of Justice – and I would like to say something special – of course I wish everything good at a time when we know that, as I think Josef Pröll is right to stress in his final speech, there is a lot to do, and it is a matter of reciprocity, of strengthening the fight against corruption and restoring the image of justice. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where?]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Investigation Committees!]] I therefore wish the Minister of Justice all the right to do so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to stress that under our budget we have to make arrangements for the next years in order to achieve a budget of consolidation on the one hand, but on the other hand not to save on future expenditure. So, save in the right place and invest where we can still lift the strengths of the country and thus improve it, i.e. at school, education, education, from childcare to university. Similarly, we have to strengthen those expenditures in the field of research and development, which are necessary to ensure that we continue to succeed in the competition, because without our export success, there would not be much possible prosperity. So we know that all the new members of the government, like all those who have heard the government before, have the task: Stability on the one hand, time of reforms on the other hand will be fully committed in the soon beginning second half of this period of government. I promise, and I know that from the members of this government. It is a team that is putting the joint before the end of the separation.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9473	I now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9497	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to start by explaining the timing to you. Just two weeks ago, I was designed as the new Vice-Chancellor, and a week ago, after an intensive period of composition of a new government team, I was commissioned by the President of the Federal Government to work for this Austria, now as Vice-Chancellor. The many new members of the Federal Government, who are here today, have also been commissioned to make some progress in their field. This was a relatively short period of time. Today we are in front of the House to present to you, ladies and gentlemen, this new government team. In the previous debate, it was mentioned that this was a jubilation. For me, of course, it is a positive hour, because we all go to this work with a lot of commitment and motivation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have been here in this house for 17 years. It is a good parliamentary exercise that the new members of the Federal Government will be presented here and that you will have the opportunity to express yourself to discuss with these members of the Federal Government and give them the opportunity to present their ideas. And I'm on the floor of this parliamentary exercise and I think it's important in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In a short time, I have thought intensively about who is allowed to exercise these government offices. I asked Maria Fekter that she switch from the Ministry of the Interior to the financial department because I trust her that she will ensure careful handling of the tax money and that she continues what Josef Pröll has begun, namely a successful crisis management. [[Abg. Street: Just like Josef Pröll: the highest debt of the Second Republic!]] I am therefore pleased that Maria Fekter was appointed to this office of the Minister of Finance and that she will remain true to these principles. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Maria Fekter has also set himself a priority that I would like to put forward in this debate today. [[Calls to the Greens.]] It has a new tax system to develop. This tax system is designed to meet requirements, namely the principles of less, simpler and more accountable. And I'm sure she'll do this job very well. I asked Johanna Mikl-Leiter to come to the government team to work as an interior minister. It has an eight-year government experience in a state government. She therefore knows how to deal with a department and what to do. It will make a special effort, ladies and gentlemen, this is the focus of security also on the Internet. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why the stock data storage!]] Many people in this country today use the Internet in their professional activity day and night. They therefore need security on the Internet, as do all the citizens of this country, for which principles it will develop. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I asked Beatrix Karl to move from the science department to the judicial department. She brings the experience of managing a ministry and is an experienced professor. She is a habilitated at a Faculty of Law and brings with her enormous expertise in legal science. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is the Ministry of Justice still independent?]] Your focus will be on the fact that we are also preparing events in the past. There is a need for a lobbyist law, we need a register that prepares it, quickly sends it into review and then presents it to the House so that we can also put new provisions into effect in this regard. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Minister for Justice will work out a solution to all issues relating to corruption, including with the High House, in terms of anti-corruption provisions also for mandates. That'll be helpful. Of course, this is to be worked out especially in the House. I asked Karlheinz Dägenle to take over the science and research department. Karlheinz Däderle is an experienced rector of the University of Innsbruck. He therefore knows about the university business, he knows the procedures, he knows about the talks with professors, middle-level construction and students. He will take special care of the Austrian university plan. It is necessary that we develop something new in the future in the interests of international competitiveness and performance, a proper location concept that determines what achievements in teaching and research can be achieved in the future. I would therefore like to warmly welcome him to the government team. I think he's an enrichment for our federal government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have also entered new country, political newland, with the creation of our own State Secretariat in the Interior and a State Secretary who will take care of integration. I am convinced that Sebastian Kurz is an excellent choice. It will ensure that new ideas will be met differently from in the past, and it will focus on: German as a language is the key to successful integration. That is necessary, and that is what we stand for. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: To do this, say your Human Rights Committee dates!]] In the future, I will be supported by a new State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Dr. Wolfgang Waldner is a learned diplomat. He comes from cultural management, he has international contacts, and his motto will be to have the suitcases packed all the time. He will represent me at bilateral contacts, at international conferences and at international organisations. I am pleased that in future we will have an experienced and good personality in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to support foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This leaves us as the three that will continue government work. Reinhold Mitterlehner will continue to lead the economic sector, focusing on an internationalization offensive that we need in order to keep our country competitive. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I am very pleased that Reinhold Mitterlehner will perform this task in the usual quality. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With Nikolaus Berlakovich, we have an Environment Minister and a Minister of Agriculture, who will give life out of nuclear power and into new energies. I am glad that Nikolaus Berlakovich will continue to lead the Ministry of Life, and I am looking forward to a good cooperation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I myself, as Foreign Minister, will try to ensure that our projects continue to be carried out. Austria is a candidate for the Human Rights Council and will be voting on it in May of this year. I am convinced that we will be elected, and we will also be represented in the Human Rights Council for three years – freedom of religion, freedom of the media. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Stock data storage!]] This will be a continuation of our foreign policy. And I will also take special care of the topic of family together with the Federal Minister Mitterlehner, because family is a matter of the heart of myself as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! After this presentation of the government team, I would also like to invite you as an opposition to cooperate constructively with us. You have already rated us by: Too far to the left! Up to: Too far to the right! – We stand in the middle, we will stay in the middle, we will make a good government policy. [[Abg. Kickl: Say it! Say it!]] I can assure you, too: The motto in this Federal Government in the future will be not to argue, not to cuddle, but to work constructively in the interest of Austria. [[Abg. Vilimsky: We already know that!]] That is our rule, that is our goal, and I would ask you to support us on this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9740	We are now going into the debate on the statements. The speaking times are known. The first is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9764	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! You can certainly – and this should be done – once again confirm that it is quite tragic and has a tragic component when a young man like former vice-chancellor Josef Pröll has to leave his position due to illness. [[Abg. Grosz: His uncle has driven him out! Not “disease ”!]] This is quite something that has a tragic component. [[Abg. Grosz: A Lower Austrian drama in three files!]] Nevertheless, one should already light one – even at his departure – when you say thank you: What did you thank you for today? – Thank you for bringing the Austrian Republic from € 180 billion to over € 230 billion of public debt? Thank you for the fact that, according to the current Court of Auditors report, €5 billion will be allocated to the ÖBB and will ultimately be additional burden on public debt? Thank you for the fact that a retired vice chancellor Pröll dissolved the banking secret? Thank you also for transferring the Austrian taxpayers towards the banks and now he is also being introduced to the Raiffeisen Group, so to speak, in order to comply with his lobbyism activity somewhere and, hopefully, to receive a thank you as a successor to Mr. Konrad? All this smells and smells very, very immense, I have to say, and there is not much to say thank you for, but you should actually enjoy certain political developments in this country, about which many people in this Republic are quite grotesque. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But back to today's repositioning of the ÖVP, which is supposedly so new: The ÖVP now believes that they have overcome their crisis with their staffrocards. I am telling you, Mr Vice-Chancellor and head of the party of ÖVP Spindelegger, that these personnelro boards will not be responsible for dealing with your problems in terms of content and structure. They have problems in terms of content and structure! Getting into placebo effects You do not solve these problems for the ÖVP – and I tell you, that's it! I think you've always behaved more and more intimately as a personality – I'd like to hold on to that as well: They have always behaved more intimately – they have always done a very, very diplomatic job, no question. I am also very excited about how you will master your task, but I do not expect to reposition the ÖVP in terms of content – but that would be necessary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we have to experience that Chancellor Werner Faymann even speaks in interviews of the fact that it is a good luck for the SPÖ that now Mr. Spindelegger is the new vice-channer and party leader, then I would be very thoughtful if that said my coalition partner. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That should be a very thoughtful vote. The Federal Chancellor will have already thought of this definition. – So I think it is necessary for the ÖVP to tackle its content and structural crisis and not just try to cast – or cast – it by changing a few heads. You have systematically thrown all your core competences overboard in recent years by the ÖVP. That's really what I'm saying. Your problem! You're not a family party anymore today. They have thrown the family resort overboard, they have removed it without replacement. With this change in government, you have also clearly shown that the topic of family is not worth your while and that you have finally resigned as a family party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, the ÖVP is no longer a value-conservative party. They are no longer a party of the medium-sized and the service providers, but at most one for banking interests. The ÖVP is also no longer a patriotic red-and-white party in this country, but an EU party, yes, in some cases you have almost an appearance in the public in your actions, that you can gain the impression that you are EU individuals. Everything specified by the EU will be taken over by you immediately – even completely uncritically –. And you're not a security party either. I'll tell you: Just the vacuum you left behind in the last few years, we have already occupied liberals well and correctly. This is important for this country, for Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the composition of the government team makes us very little hope today, then it begins with you as Vice-Cancellor and Foreign Minister. Why little hope? – Because you too, as Foreign Minister, have repeatedly stopped in the last few days and weeks, that you are not necessarily those representatives who really mean it with our neutrality and which neutrality is obviously not important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] You have also noticed in recent weeks that you have said that we are necessarily Austrian soldiers in the EU battling groups – say: Fighting groups – to send to Libya. I say clearly to you: No, no, no, We didn't lose anything there! Our neutrality is not defended in Tripoli! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We didn't lose anything in these combat missions. – All of this is something that we are very thoughtful of. I also expect you to be more confident about Brussels, which is unfortunately not in view of all your previous words. Or do we take the occupation of the financial unit with the former Minister of the Interior Maria Fekter, who is now changing to the financial sector. You have already threatened very dangerously with this: Maria Fekter will continue the successful course of Josef Pröll. – This is a dangerous threat! Do you want to increase and increase public debt, take over even more EU arrests, and ultimately make a mass expropriation of the Austrian population with the tax money of Austria that you pump against the interests of Austria towards pleite banks and creditors and speculators? [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] All these are dangerous threats. I tell you, Mrs. Maria Fekter has also shown that she has failed in the interior area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shit helmet.]] We have always had to notice that we have experienced a lot of rhetoric, but no concrete actions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Yes, please, who's been dancing us around for years? – Asylum abusers families, such as the Zogaj family, who have us danced around here for years, then finally comply with the laws and then recovered after they have been postponed. I believe that any security policy will lose credibility if we allow such developments in the field of asylum abuse. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't seriously believe that if you live up to such a level of content, you will have a great deal of support in the population.- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That is what does not give us any reason to hope in the re-employment of this federal government. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Whether Beatrix Karl as Minister of Justice will actually be an improvement to Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, we will be waiting for it and we will also have to judge, just as we have to wait to see if the newly added members of the government will prove themselves in their territory. What really hurts me personally is that you just gave up the area of the family state secretariat. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is also a sign that the topic is not important to you. Even though you, Mr Spindelegger, are talking about a family tax division and are finally ready to take on the freedom of movement, I do not have the hope of all your wealth and obs that you have linked to the fact that there will be an enforcement. With regard to Secretary of State, I can only say: I am pleased that, at last, a young person at the ÖVP has also been given the opportunity to participate politically. That's quite a light look. – If one considers the role of Mr Kurz in the Vienna election campaign in substance, he has noticed more embarrassingly. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There was a gel-o-mobile and then an election campaign, whose motto was: “Black Makes Geil”. – Brother, it shakes me! What's wrong with black, please? If something is nice, then it is the power greed of the ÖVP that we have to experience again and again in this republic, but nothing else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] If you notice such embarrassing content and also evaluate the Vienna integration policy of the ÖVP, then you know what rejection ÖVP Vienna has rightly received at the last country election! That's exactly what it's all about: The Federal ÖVP appears to be changing to the unsuccessful traces of the Vienna ÖVP. I am glad that we are now beginning to transfer this downward trend of the Vienna ÖVP to the federal level – but that is exactly what we can see today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am already excited whether you will manage to emancipate a little bit from the SPÖ or whether you still want to hang on to the SPÖ band. This will be proven by the ORF and will prove whether or not They will continue to try, so to speak, to keep the "rotfunk" the bar, or perhaps also to be willing, here – hopefully – to free this Austrian radio from the red sphere of influence and to make it possible for an independent candidate to finally carry out a party-political detachment and to bring independence into this ORF. All of this will be in the next few weeks and months, because overall I can't see that until today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll be at the end of the sentence. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is fixed today. The Austrian population recognizes one thing: When it comes to red-white-red representation of interests, there is a party in this house that ensures it, and that is the Freedom Party. There is no EU authority and no EU-secretery. We will continue to represent Austrian interests consistently.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9945	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9982	No, I was just about to propose Klubobmann Strache for the future that he intends to present himself a little bit of his own ideas. It was a chatter now, but it wasn't a talk. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. You mean the proposals from the chancellor and the vice chancellor?]] [[Abg. Kickl: You have the wrong paper!]] If, of course, Mr Vice-Chancellor and of course, we are pleased that we can conduct a contentious debate here too controversially, then of course we need alternative ideas. [[Abg. Neubauer: You have postponed 1 000 proposals!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] When in the Anxiety comments in the newspapers are constantly written: Stache becomes Federal Chancellor!, yes then you should do at least as if you really wanted it to be! That means you're making yourself up here, proposing something, saying something and not just criticizing. So that would be my request and the challenge of the future. What are the challenges of the future that we face? [[Abg. Street:... east opening!]] We read continuously: Stand still in the government. – I have looked at the legal decisions of recent times: many have also been taken together, to third, to fourth, to fifth, and there has really been a lot of important legislative projects here, and many of the government's projects have already been implemented here. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What now? What now?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Now you have a button...!]] I think that this should also be mentioned if there is criticism here, and this is also provided with alternatives. [[Abg. Bucher: Examples! Examples!]] Make an international comparison! If you stand on the street and make discussions – in a place, on markets – then many come and say: I was abroad right now. There I had a mild illness and got to know the health system there. You know what: I am so glad that I live in Austria; there is such a great health care! [[Abg. Kickl: Come on!]] This is something that is described in life. Or someone says: Look, I know someone in another European country. There they have a problem with pensions. That's ridiculous, they can't live on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] - We have safe pensions. Yes, we sometimes have to do something for them to be safe, but the comparison makes sure. [[Abg. Bucher: But how long? The boys don't think they'll ever get a pension!]] You shouldn't put that at risk, that's what I'm doing now. These are always so naked data and facts that are brought here and always so cold. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We have these despite this government, not because of her!]] But if it is said that we are on the increase in employment in the European top-level field, then that is not a matter of course! There are countries that have had major problems after the financial and economic crisis. The engine didn't jump right there. If we are so far ahead now, if the “work” works really well here now, then you can’t just say that these are the global influences, the interplanetary influences or anything else, but you obviously must have done something for it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because we have diligent people, despite this government!]] That's why I do: that the opposition sometimes also recognizes what is worthwhile, makes itself here, and once says: Yes, it did. This is actually a development... – Well, if there is an intellect, well. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I also believe that if one sees the purchasing power in Austria in an international comparison, it doesn't matter. If I go shopping on the market with my wallet and I can really buy something there, it doesn't matter! [[Abg. Kickl: I think you can buy something there with your salary! ... Private Kindergarten!]] That's important! This is also an Austrian specification in international comparison. Or if I see that Austria is in the forefront of the decline in unemployment. The data in March clearly show this! We have countered through our instruments, which – compared to other countries – are a specification in Austria. [[Abg. Vilimsky: 320,000! Bravo! Bravo!]] - But modelling. In the international context, wage and social dumping in China, India, Eastern Europe and any continents is now exerting pressure on the world economy, and we have a sharp distribution of the world economy. [[Abg. Kickl: From 1. May also with us!]] [[Abg. Strache: From 1. Thank you with us, too!]] That is one of the reasons why the migration flows exist. [[Abg. Strache: From 1. May also thank you with us, the wage dumping!]] You should think about it! These would be topics for the future. Do not spread images of fear, but create themselves here and say how you face the challenge of economic shale development in Africa or how we are now dealing with economic stabilisation in North Africa, so that people can see a sense of living there, of producing there and of doing something there for their prosperity, for their lives, in agreement with us, and not just having three cannon boats, four cannon boats crossed in the Mediterranean. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] That doesn't solve anything, but you have to think about it economically and politically. These are things that play a role. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We are all discussing the question of the exit from nuclear energy. - Okay, we can always meet and decide this. Great! I have already been in favour of nuclear energy, and some have still had the Milupa bottle in their hands. [[Abg. Strache: You were for Zwentendorf?]] But I'll tell you something: The changeover is an economic program: Energy saving, efficiency, sustainable energy. If I really do, then I have to develop ideas to do so, and we have to have concepts, because many people have to think about it, as many structures have to move in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] So also one of the challenges of time. There's a lot of people coming and saying, Yes, the countries, the social partners and so on. – You can always be critical of the way federalism works, you can always be critical of the way social society works. This is not a death-beat argument, but one should come out here and say what the alternative is. Some say that the whole political system is for the fish – and at all the representatives and all – but they do not say who should do it then. Who will then fulfil the tasks of the State? Social compensation, social justice, equal opportunities, education and culture work in the labour market: Then who's doing that? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: H.-C. Strache!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] This is one of the important points that we should take into account, and I think, of course, that is also part of this. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Self-hypnosis! The cap has become esoteric!]] Whenever it is said: We have so many state responsibilities and administrative structures and so on. - Call by name! What kind of popular performance of our state, our health system, will then be eliminated? – Then I am curious whether those who are always looking for short-term constituency will once have the courage to get out of here and say: Yes, we're not for standstill, we're for movement. We want to be saved: first, second, third, fourth, fifth, that it only gnaws so much in the bale. – I would have liked to hear that from you! [[Abg. Bucher: For example? Examples! But you have no examples yourself!]] You come out with your sun face every time, Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, grinning at us wide, giving us a talk, but you do not make a suggestion with which we can really start something. I do not need to talk well, but what we need, these are concrete things that answer the challenges of time. [[Abg. Grosz: 1 000 applications in committee!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Always the same speech!]] And I say, This government is giving an answer! [[Abg. Grosz: For 40 years the same speech!]] You can sometimes make it faster, you may even be able to do better at times, but you give an answer to it. And in international comparison, this government can really exist because of the results that can be read here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You know, if you drive so many motorways and sit in some of the railways in Europe, you get a longing for Austrian infrastructure in the transport sector. Once you have a bit of a sniff and you have to go to an Italian hospital and you want to be provided there, then say: For God's sake, when am I finally back in Austria!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Call:Don't screw yourself up]] You know, you experience that, and that is said in many, many areas of life – and there are responsibilities for that: well-managed communities, well-managed countries and a government that really responds to the challenges of time. [[Abg. Bucher: But expensive! That pays all the taxpayers!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's all great!]] You know what's important – and I take it very seriously: I believe that in the opinions we have heard today from the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor, there were also offers here to the house below, that this discussion process is also being conducted here, that many things are decided together. You know, it's about... – No, it's not about Peter Westenthaler, it's about Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We've heard that for 40 years!]] It is about the Austrians and our future. And we are in a tough competition in the European Union. There is much to criticise, many rules that have not been introduced – whether I believe in the financial market system that there is still no financial transaction tax, the refusal to withdraw from nuclear energy – there are inconspicuous governments. There is much to be criticised in the European Union. We are in global competition, in a tough competition for the economy. It is therefore good that we do so much in the field of research. We're in a tough competition. Therefore, it is good that we are dumping anti-social and wage. So we are in a tough competition, and we have to prepare for it, and we are all the stronger, the more we work together here, with constructive opposition parties who together try to go this way for Austria. The people in front of the screens don't want the cheap fight, the cheap hader, they don't want us to try to prove each other there: Who's more incompetent? Who doesn't know? Who can't put the words together well? – People don't want all of this. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: But you don't want an expensive government either!]] They want us to get together here and look for the best way for Austria in the process of debate. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Bucher.]] – No, no mockery, Mr. Klubobmann Bucher! This deserves approval – and not merciless remarks and sinister movements!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10441	Next, Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10473	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Josef Pröll has said a few remarkable things about his departure, and I would like to repeat two of them because, I believe, they are very important for the future. One thing was: He has complained of a lack of propriety in politics, but especially in his own ranks, in his own party – and this in a remarkable openness. And, second, he has pointed out the standstill that many people in Austria are now very upset, because they believe that this Federal Government has had enough time to carry on, and now should finally start working. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I begin with the first point: the lack of political resistance and, above all, in the ranks of the ÖVP. In any event, I can assure you – and I say this also in the direction of the new members of the government – that green Members will always be constructive and supportive for you in any form if you make proposals that will move a little further in Austria, especially in the field of anti-corruption. This is one of the major problems that we still have, and we would have expected today that you would not march here empty-handed and announce again, for a repeated time, anti-corruption rules will be tightened, but we would have expected a concrete package to be presented today – also out of respect for your old party observer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And the second: Today, as at the beginning of the year, we had to listen to the phrases again: That will be the year of reforms, now it's over with the fight, now it's over with the standstill! – Now is soon the 1. May, now we've taken another four months. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The summer hour is coming soon!]] So: Of the major reforms that you announced at the beginning of the year, with the big joint start at the time in the Hofburg, no one millimeter has been presented. And here I already understand the displeasure and now the dissatisfaction in large parts of the population, which simply expect something to work here. You, Dr. Spindelegger, are now coming as new vice-ganner and ÖVP party leader with such flattites – I am sorry to say so – like: a new tax system, less tax system, simpler, more performance-friendly!, or: Family is important to me! Please tell us exactly what you will put on the table over the next few weeks and months on proposals, what proposals we will be given to decision-making here, what we also like to make our proposals for, or keep silent with these endless announcements to make reforms if you do not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time as your government statement here today – Declaration by Chancellors, Vice-Chancellors and all new members of the government in their role – legislative packages are already being adopted. And I really feel it provocation when you say, Security on the Internet will be a new focus when we discuss the problem of data storage for more than an hour just before, in all its contents, and I feel it is a real provocation when you say for the hundredth time: It is a matter of nuclear energy! and referring to the Environment Ministers and not being able to force the lobbyists in their own party at last to decide on the decision they have to make, namely to reserve the mandate, Mr Ex-Kanzler Schüssel, who, by the way, is not here again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I feel it's provocation when you say again: Only in renewable energy sources!, when, at the same time, an eco electricity law is presented by the Minister of Economic Affairs, which ridicules each description, a law which allows the whole industry to rotate and says: That's a naughtiness, that's a defiance of our work! There are companies that have to export to 100 percent abroad, because we keep this entire important industry, which is the key to the exit from nuclear energy, small as at the garden dwarf level. I feel that this is a real provocation in a new government statement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that it is a real provocation for the new Minister of Science to hear him work out a plan of higher education, to carry out university strengthening, to strengthen research – and then he gets no single cent of extra money?- Oh, my God! We all know what the universities are in. In the meantime, one can no longer only talk about hunger, but the universities are really at the end. And no fresh money at all, no single cent in the Federal Financial Framework Act is the declaration of bankruptcy for any scientific and research policy in that country. That's what I'm telling you: You have my sympathy, Minister of Research and Science, if you have to start your work in this way! I really feel sorry for you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And I feel it is provocation when you say family policy is important to you, and at the same time a foreign law package is presented that allows children and young people to continue to be pushed into custody. I don't feel like it right now as a mother! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would have liked you to make at least a correction in relation to families, children and young people if you put this into circulation. One can discuss many things very long and in detail, but on the question of whether children should be in prison, we should actually agree with a Christian-social ÖVP – you have said you are orienting yourself to these values – that this should never be the case in Austria again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nevertheless: We are optimists of the profession – otherwise we would not be in politics – and we offer you cooperation and support in every form if you want to work constructively and not only make announcements like: continue the old course, but if innovation and modernity come back and a certain set-up takes place in your party, as you want to try with your new heads. Josef Pröll tried at least once with the perspective group at the time. I am still missing from you, Mr Spindelegger, that you are identifying the areas where you really want to do something new. We would suggest: Get off the education brake! Make proper resources available to universities! In school policy, take away from the blockade policy that ÖAAB and ÖVP have made de facto for a very long time as a refusal to reform the government by not allowing reform in this area! Rise Down from the education brake! – That would be something that could probably calm many people in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At last you will become active in one of the topics that many people now, after the commemorative day 25 years of Chernobyl, are extremely burdened – quite extremely heavy! High-risk reactors around our borders, no visible activities of the Federal Government – on the contrary. There is great misunderstanding that lobbyists are still sitting here in Parliament. When I discuss on the street, that's the only sentence I always get: How could that be? Austria is a country that says it has committed itself to anti-atomic policy – and at the same time someone is sitting in the Supervisory Board of a company that is now complaining against shutting down nuclear power stations in Germany! No one in this republic understands that, and I can't understand that you don't make order here in your own ranks. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us make joint initiatives! Let us offer Slovenia, Slovakia, other ways of producing energy! Austria has so much know-how in this area. Really get active once and stop working exclusively with announcements! You have the Greens as partners in any constructive form that you can only wish for, but you must also take the first step of yourself. With the old course, with the old contents, only with new headings, we will not bring Austria much further.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10569	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10591	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! First of all, allow me to make a comment on the previous objection debate. Some parties in this House – especially the opposition and individual politicians – have the word “stand” in their mouths over and over again. Parliament is a place of debate, and there may be a little tougher, not a question, because there are points of view that are also disputed. But we have given ourselves rules on how we want to take this debate together, written and partly also unwritten rules of the game. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: What about the signature of Klubobmann's head at the budget, at the Committee on Subsidy?]] But at the presidential meeting, Mrs Klubobfrau, we decided unanimously on an agenda which we decided today at the beginning of the sitting. Nevertheless, you are not using the instrument of the debate on applications to get to the television with a content debate that would have to take place today following this debate. That's indecent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls for greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] But now on the real subject. A newly formed federal government is pictured here today. So many comments and discussions in the media, but also so many speeches, especially from you, Mr Strache, and from you, Mrs Glavischnig, have led me to the following question: Which country are you talking about? Reasons Are you really from our Austria? From a country that is the fourth largest in the world, with significantly better growth rates than in most other countries, with a per capita income significantly higher than that of most other countries? [[Abg. Straight: 230 billion debts! Haven't you heard we have 230 billion debts yet?]] Are you really talking about the same Austria I mean? [[Abg. Straight: You haven't heard anything from 230 billion debts yet?]] I am talking about Austria and a country with the lowest unemployment. I am talking about Austria, my Austria, as one of the safest countries in the world. I am talking about Austria as one of the most beautiful countries in the world, and I am also talking about a country that can be seen in its social situation, a country with the lowest income differences worldwide. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Mr. Bundeskanzler, can you sign this?]] Not all of this, ladies and gentlemen, is worth politics, but much has been positively influenced by politics. And that at the end of a financial and economic crisis, as the world has not seen it since the 1930s, we stand so well, we stand far better than many others, that has a lot to do with politics, has a lot to do with right policy and also has a lot of ÖVP manuscript. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Just to remember: A bank assistance package has helped ensure the savings of Austrians to ensure that the economy has also been financed. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Booker: Such nonsense!]] Economic packages have been tied up, which have contributed to the stabilisation of the economy and jobs. Labour market measures have been introduced which have prevented unemployment. There was a tax reform that relieved people and created purchasing power. [[Abg. Bucher: And afterwards the taxes increased again!]] All of this was right in the crisis, which we have decided together, this federal government, but also much of it, all of us together, government and opposition parties, in this House; we should not forget that. And, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, this crisis management has been accounted for by a man who has been at the heart of this reorganisation as a Minister of Finance, and this has unfortunately been our former Minister of Finance, Josef Pröll, whom I would like to thank very much at this point, to whom I would like to thank, as the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chanceller have already done, for his further recovery, and also for his further career, for everything, good and good and good. [[Abg. Strache: Rehabilitation? Where do you live? What kind of refurbishment?]] [[Congratulations and bravails with the ÖVP as well as applause with the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this resignation of our party chairman, vice-channer and finance minister poses a huge challenge for the ÖVP and also for the Federal Government, no question. But we acted very quickly in the ÖVP, not only designed a new party observer within three weeks, but also introduced a new vice-chancer and a newly designed government team with him. With Michael Spindelegger as Vice Chancellor, one of the most experienced politicians in this House is probably at the head of the ÖVP government team and also at the head of our party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It stands with him as a man at the head of the ÖVP, who stands in particular for integrity, for morality, for propriety, but also for the joy of reform in politics. We look forward to working with you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, in this new function. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Motherly applause in the ÖVP club!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This start into the second half of the legislative period is certainly also a reason for optimism. There are many challenges that are still to be addressed, we do not need to discuss this away, in budgetary and tax policy. Of course, the financial crisis has left traces in our budget, no question at all. In other words, we need to re-establish scope with discipline in expenditure, but we must also ensure that people's ability to perform remains as high as they are by discharge of taxpayers. This is the most important thing and brings us out of the crisis most quickly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a new Minister of Finance, Maria Fekter will lead us exactly on this path, as the successor of Josef Pröll, which Josef Pröll has already described: discharge and budgetary discipline. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our new security minister Johanna Mikl-Leiter, whom I would also like to welcome very warmly, will continue to ensure that crime will be effectively combated in this country and illegality will be suppressed, because no place for crime and illegality must continue to be in Austria. You'll take care of it, and we'll all support you, dear Hanni. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Science and research is the future factor for our country. Dear Karlheinz Teenle, you will continue to run the department in proven form, as Beatrix Karl did before for us. Our support is safe for you too in this not easy task. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call at BZÖ: A dangerous threat!]] I also warmly welcome our new Secretary of State for Integration. Johanna Mikl- Leitner said a very important sentence: In future, the Minister of the Interior will also raise the question of immigration: Who is allowed to join us?, with all consequence, but those who are legal with us, they should be integrated into this society. And this will be the task of our new Secretary of State to ensure and support this integration. We support you with this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last sentence: The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also assist our Foreign Minister. A warm welcome to you, dear Wolfgang Waldner! Ladies and gentlemen, our new Minister of Justice Dr. Karl will, in the succession of Claudia Bandion-Ortner, ensure that law remains in this country. [[Calls:Reading time]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] [[Calls:Reading time]] Mr President, just one sentence: Finally, I would like to greet the new members of the government, especially the ladies in the new functions, and to welcome them to our team.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10906	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10928	Ladies and gentlemen! Congratulations! Mr. Kopf has just noticed that Mrs. Karl has also taken place on the government bank – bravo! – although for some time now, but today welcome for the first time. [[Sadness at the BZÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They now get flowers every week!]] We from the BZÖ wish the retired Josef Pröll all the best on his path of recovery, but also, of course, on his future career. But, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to hide, nor do we want Josef Pröll, as Minister of Finance, to leave us the highest debt in the Second Republic, that Josef Pröll has also left us a country, namely the “High Tax National Park”, with a tax and tax rate of 45 percent, with which we are already on the ceiling within the European Union. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[recent congratulation with BZÖ]] Mr Kopf, on your point of view: If you call it inappropriate that we raise important concerns of the people, of important laws in the House, then, if the people have the opportunity to track the debates on television, then I am happy to be indecent – it is honest, it is fair and it is decent to warn ladies and gentlemen that we are warning of laws that are intended to stifle the population in time. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is not a part of the government where we are invited, but we are here in the House, where it is about making policy and pointing out what is going wrong in this Republic and where the government has deficits. I have missed one of these shortcomings, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which you have so to speak, because when you said and stated in your statement of Government that we have a very high level of employment. The only jobs you have created, Mr Faymann, are those of the ladies and gentlemen who sit on the left and on the right of you. These are the only jobs – and we say that one or the other is even superfluous and too much. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But I have missed one, and also in the statements of the Vice-Chancellor, who belongs to a party that is always famous to be an economic party. Thank you at last for the business, thank the small, medium-sized companies! 80 percent of the economy make up these small, medium-sized companies. They have created these jobs! Every day with their taxes, they ensure that you can drive your inconsistencies on this government bank, ladies and gentlemen! That's reality. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you are talking about stability, Federal Chancellor, then this can only be a dangerous threat, because the only thing that is stable in this Federal Government is the standstill, ladies and gentlemen, and we must eliminate that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Everyone is talking about great hope, and you are embodying the new hope. I do not want to know what misery means, ladies and gentlemen, when you speak of great hope in this Federal Government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And this federal government is now celebrating a new start. In fact, only the person carousel turned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, that's it!]] The power has remained the same within the ÖVP, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen. For, Mr Spindelegger: Although they have obtained a power of authority, the full power, which remains in St. Pölten, for there is the actual authority who determines this federal government and who says who has to take place on the government bank. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, Mr Spindelegger, are not, as it were, the new leader, but you are a leader of the alliances, the federal structures of the ÖVP, but you are, above all, a leader of the head of state Pröll, who is directing you to do or not to do what you have to do in this Federal Government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would have expected you to take a courageous step and say: In this Federal Government, let us save some State Secretary! – That would have been a courageous signal at a proper time to put in place savings measures instead of always demanding from the citizens who are going back and forth anyway, ladies and gentlemen. That would have been courageous, Mr Spindelegger – but not to put new people here on the government bank, which you did not even want! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's all the second hand, that's the second choice that's taken place here! You didn't get a grain, you didn't get a cane. They have not received capacity, but this is the cheap compromise between the alliances and the interests of the countries that have taken their place behind us, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the last offer of the ÖVP, the singing of the ÖVP, an ÖVP that has become an all-world party that has no more content, which does not know what policy it wants to make, ladies and gentlemen. I now ask you quite openly, Mr Spindelegger – and you have admitted this in a first opinion –: If you do not know for yourself what policy you want to do in the future if the EIA does not know what political content it wants to represent in the future, then how do you want to make government policy, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. We already know what we're doing!]] How do you want to lead the Republic and ensure that policies are made with your agents on the government bank? – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, here is an official government that will rule our country in the future! That's reality. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Austria is governed by loud officials, and we will also suffer in the future because this standstill is pre-programmed. Where are your clear positions in military policy? – Once you’re for a professional army, then you’re back for military service. Where is your idea in education policy? – Once you hear that you are for the general school, another time you are against the general school again. Then one hears that a tax reform should be prepared. – Yes, everything can happen, just no tax reduction. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a blockade policy that is being extended here by the ÖVP government. And yes, Mrs. Finanzminister "Iron Lady" Fekter: “Finance is something other than kierei.” – That’s your new saying. [[Members of the BZÖ – in ironic allusion to the use of the English term in a statement by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, particularly emphasizing the English debate –: “Finance”! “Finance”!]] I hope that in the future you will really be an iron lady – I will give you this along the way to the negotiations you are going to take in Brussels – an iron lady who will not be devoting the billions to Brussels in the future, but who will ensure that we do not have to pay so high net contributions to the European Union, to Marode countries and to Marode banks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: (on Federal Minister Dr. Fekter pointing) The "Maggie Thatcher"!]] We are threatened with huge payments in the next few years: More than 1 billion € per year They're moving to Brussels! [[Call BZÖ:Let's finance!]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the exact political content of the BZÖ that we are saying here: Enough paid! Enough paid for marode banks, for marode countries! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, worry about what the real problems of people are: current high inflation, high fuel prices! They are guilty of high inflation. This is not 2.9 or 3 percent, but it is 7 or 8 percent! These are the real problems of the people who suffer a loss of income. And this is also a hidden tax! I always say that in the direction of the SPÖ, which must finally be recognized, because inflation is particularly affected by small and medium-sized income levels. They must pay for it, they have less and less money at their disposal to finance their livelihood. It is a hidden tax that they cannot escape, which only helps to clean up the budget in the most treacherous way. And that should be eliminated, ladies and gentlemen. This federal government has resigned! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The budget is, as we know, the policy cast into figures. We know that the budget is deficient, ladies and gentlemen. This policy is not only deficient, it is in fact argued.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11168	Mrs Fekter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11213	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear listeners! As Minister of Finance, I feel as the taxpayer of taxpayers, as a lawyer of the service providers, because the service providers are those who finance this state that also finance your salary. [[Call the BZÖ: “Finance”! “Finance Minister”!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Former kierei!]] That is why I am very concerned that we should be very careful about how the tax money is managed and that it will be spent sparingly and carefully. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers on the budget path for the next five years and forwarded it to this House. Tomorrow we'll discuss the details. So it is not a question of standstill, but we have immediately made sure that the work here in the House can be carried on quickly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, over the next few weeks, we will also pass on a tax-change law to this House, and I am looking forward to working together with you. And you know me – I was a member of the High House myself for almost 14 years –: I lead the laws to the High House in the final negotiation and also, before they are consulted in the committees, to the opposition and to the government groups. I therefore invite you, as a Minister of Finance, to such talks and, of course, also offer the opposition the opportunity to discuss her ideas with the experts of the Ministry of Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: Yes, two days before!]] I'm a minister who always wanted to design. I have kept that as an interior minister, and I will do so as a Minister of Finance. [[Members of the BZÖ – the word “kiebery” with the “r” typical of American English –: “Minister of the Kiebery!”]] For example, taxes are such a design element. That's what I'm saying quite clearly, I have principles that say: Less, simpler and more powerful! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the basis of these principles, I will help shape the tax legislation in the future. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: More finance!]] As a goal I have in mind: the prosperity of the Austrians. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Less for the citizens!]] We can only secure prosperity if there is sufficient work, sufficient jobs, economic growth and quality of the location. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the State is managed in the Ministry of Finance. One can increase prosperity, but one can also disarm the state. This federal government under Sepp Pröll has increased its prosperity in this country – and not, as many others around it, the state has managed. [[Abg. Strache: A record tax burden was the result of the last – unconstitutional – budget creation!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: One million people in poverty!]] And this is my model: I too want to increase prosperity in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11384	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11405	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If it were not so exhilarating, then it would really be almost for crying, if you listen to that and if you look at what has been carried off in the last few weeks, especially by the ÖVP, but of course by tolerance and by taking off the SPÖ. It usually means that if the need is particularly great – and this is the case with the ÖVP – then sometimes something big comes out as a solution. What has come out is a great embarrassment, ladies and gentlemen, and a great trouble for the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say to you, you are increasingly losing the version if you look at this embarrassing overturn – otherwise you can't call it – these shameless political deals between the alliances, the countries, any sponsors in any banks and all the other parties involved in the ÖVP. You lose the version and get angry, ladies and gentlemen. What is being done here is post chess in pure culture and has nothing to do with a restart at all. This is the policy of the brand Ururalt, which has brought you into this situation, and I am amazed to be amazed that you believe you will get out of this crisis with the same mechanisms. The electorate, ladies and gentlemen, see this quite differently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I smell it in here, the proporzmeef is in the air. Of course, they are mainly talking about the ÖVP, but the SPÖ nods all of this and is happy about it because it is knitted according to the same pattern. In view of the crisis of the EIA, we have already forgotten a little to look at the SPÖ, which is already pleased that it is constantly more than 25 percent and less than 30 percent. So even the SPÖ is not particularly good. And the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, are one and the same. Whoever has looked at this government transformation or what is so called this embarrassing skill, this lattice of any requirements of alliances, federal states and uncles in Lower Austria, he will insist that one is the same, ladies and gentlemen, namely, the number of armchairs here behind me. This figure remains the same – not because there is any need for it, no, no, but because the proporz, the balance of red and black horror in Austria demands it. What does that mean? The first opportunity you would have had to send a signal – and I address you as Mrs Neo-Finanzminister – has made you negligent. You might have been able to show once that you are seriously thinking not only of getting the belt tighter and tighter in the population – that is a relatively simple exercise – but rather of walking in a small area for self-application and shortening this government bank back there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that she is no longer, ladies and gentlemen, does not owe her insight, but owes herself to the architectural conditions here in the house. If the government bank were left and right still two meters longer, it would certainly be filled up to the last place. You, ladies and gentlemen, have not learned anything about it. They're working against the house mind. They do this on the first of May this year, where the social democracy with red flags and with red cloves in the buttonhole celebrates the singing as a workers' movement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the first May: A former high holiday of social democracy is being disdained and desecrated. I don't know who you are going to wake up from the gallery at Vienna City Hall Square – probably the thousands of workers already waiting at the border to find employment here in Austria, which will make sure that the Austrians lose their jobs, that the wage level goes down, and that small and medium-sized enterprises will actually have to fight for survival. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The guest workers!]] You can wake them up, but no longer the Austrian workers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now I am with you again, Mrs Neo-Finanzminister Fekter: You have to tell people what the real thing is. You have not become a Minister of Finance, because you may remember somewhere that you heard something about mathematical or tax matters at the university in the dark past. [[Abg. May. Stadler: “Finance”!]] I understand that there is a need for a certain explanation in this government in which a refusal to serve as a military minister can be made. But the real reason why you're sitting here is: because you've always been a trusted member of Josef Pröll, a very close confidant. As a very close confidant, you have also participated in all these cuts, which we have experienced, for example, in the family sector and which people have to endure. That's where you were leading. “Close confidant” means all these unfair cuts to the pensioners, where the holiday money is now being paid, to have all this whipped in. “Close familiar” means that you were also included in the mass taxes. And just as until a few weeks ago at each tank, whether diesel, super or normal petrol, has laughed at Josef Pröll's face from the tap column, your face now laughs out as the largest tap of the nation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Stop linking the petrol price with the international markets and developments there – that's only a small part of it – but look at the tax burden you have imposed on it! You should generate for being one of the main beneficiaries and crisis winners in the petrol price sector!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11500	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11529	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kickl, if you say that the transitional period for workers from other EU countries expires on 1st May, that is true. But let us also remember who negotiated these seven years, that is to say, these seven years. [[Abg. Kickl: Are you saying you are not able to continue thinking on your own?]] There you were in the government, and you have negotiated at European level that it is a maximum of seven years. [[Abg. Strache: Who voted against transitional periods? – You voted against transitional periods!]] And that's the result. That means you only complain about your own inability in 2004. Congratulations! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Street: “We can’t do anything!” “We sit there and continue all that the old government has done! ”]] Before I go into the future, I would also like to thank personally for working with former Finance Minister Josef Pröll and former State Secretary Reinhold Lopatka. I was not always of one opinion with them for many years, but at the end of the day we made quite, very important decisions. – I would like to thank both personally for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why didn't he get flowers?]] [[Abg. Strache: Now the colleague Lopatka has more time for the marathon again!]] I think that what we have done here in these years can be seen. We have, I believe, also correctly analysed together that our Austrian tax system really has a problem – the new Minister of Finance has already complained – that it is not fair to do so. Our control system is set up like this: The more a person pays for his income, the higher the tax, and the less personal performance behind it, the lower the tax paid by the individual. – We have already discussed this many times before. The highest taxes must be paid on work; lower they are on rental income and the like, speculation profits, interest, foundations et cetera. This means that the higher the performance – and work is, of course, the highest performance behind an income – the higher the tax. What have we done in recent years? – We have greatly reduced taxes and taxes on work – by more than €3 billion – and at the same time we have increased the debt for those who do not make a fair contribution. We have doubled the tax on the foundation and we have introduced the speculation tax. That is what I believe we have taken completely right steps. That is the essential thing that remains for me from the years of Pröll and Lopatka in the Ministry of Finance, and that is very, very positive. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The foundation tax was previously 25 percent and is now 25 percent! Nothing has been doubled at all! I don't know!]] What can also be seen very positively is how Austria today, after the crisis, is above all in comparison with other countries. Under the leadership of Federal Chancellor Faymann, of course, Josef Pröll and other ministers such as Hundstorfer, Mitterlehner and so on have made very important contributions – and also the previous government, one has to say, because the bank package still fell into the time of the previous government. We have worked very successfully, I believe, and last December we made a very important decision, as I have said, namely that those who have received the solidarity of society through the banking package must now also be in solidarity with society, now that the banks are paying €500 million a year in additional taxes, namely the bank levy. [[Abg. Booker: Such a fool! A bank customer tax is that and no bank tax!]] This is also a very, very important decision that we have taken together. Mrs Fekter, I am looking forward to working together. If you say, Less, simpler, more powerful!, then perhaps you have already discovered that you will surely find allies in social democracy. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Less for the citizens, you mean!]] Less taxes, especially for work, i.e. taxes and taxes on work, is, I believe, the commandment of the hour. Overall fewer taxes will not go because if you yourself say the debts hurt you, then we will also need the tax revenue to repay the debts. [[Abg. Kickl: Liabilities are also debts!]] That will simply be necessary. But that means less taxes on work – yes! At the same time, of course, we also need to see that those who do not yet make the same contribution as those who work for their money sometimes pay higher taxes than they do today. How did we do that? By the speculation levy, by increasing the tax on the foundation and the like. I'm sure you have a partner in us. Simpler – for this we are, too, because the more complicated the tax law, the more it usually benefits only those who can buy expertise. This tends to benefit only those very few who then find a way to save taxes. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: The “criminals” who can save what!]] Powerful – yes, that's right. Although we have taken important steps in recent years to reduce this gap in the tax system, it is still a further way, as taxes on work, on earnings are, of course, much higher than those on capital, on non-profit income. If you want to eliminate this imbalance and come to a performance-oriented tax system, you have surely found a partner in us. [[Abg. Dr. Rosary: nonsense!]] Other questions are also open: The insolvency law for banks, for example, has unfortunately remained open. We have agreed in the government a tax-structural reform commission and are there right now. They also referred to the tax-amendment law. Just one small thing: When we talk about the tax deductibility for donations to To get around world organisations, yes, then you will have no opponent in us that this will come earlier than planned. Also with regard to the concern that animal protection should be fully included in this Regulation and that the deductibility should not only apply to donations to animal shelters, you will not find in us any vehement opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11742	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11763	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank – especially the new, but also Mr. Federal Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You have formulated that you could work differently on the occasion of one – from your point of view – restarts here. – Yes, why not? Why not?- Oh, my God! It would be necessary. Let us remember how the situation in Austria was and what was on the agenda before it came to this veritable implosion of the ÖVP! It was clearly the very big issues of the future. On the one hand, it was – and still is – and that is what it is all about, and that is what it is all about, in order to make an offer from our side – energy policy a very big issue – in every country of the world, but especially in Europe with the task of introducing the necessary energy transition through its pioneering role in the issue of energy policy. This means no more and no less than a restructuring of the current economic society and its functioning. There is much Austria can do, there is a lot of done, and we look at what that can be. Of course, it is also about the issue of anti-corruption, which you have all been very busy with – down to your own ranks, I say once without cynicism. But that must go on! And finally, it is about education and the universities that are de facto starved in the current state – also with your new federal financial framework, which you have just so honoured, Mrs Finanzminister. First of all, however, to the Clubobmann head, after he had trained the opposition here, because it was supposed to have been pushed into the television era, tried some stagings. I would like to draw your attention to how the use of the house is still here, and perhaps we can change something about it. If it is so that a lot of television time can be used so that the shawl tones, the delivery of flower bouquets and what I know, what was given for the best, are transferred – the content was still not much there; I can return this compliment you made to the FPÖ – if that is to be transferred, but not the essential discussions when it comes to storage of data or other things – and tomorrow will not be transmitted at all! – you should not be surprised if the Members come to the idea of helping yourself differently. I do not see at all that then these measures come from the ÖVP, where not only the word is not worth anything, but – there he comes, the Klubobmann head! – not even the signature again. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] If we are already at the budget, Mrs Fekter: Never again do we want to experience that against the Constitution and against the signatures of all clubmen a budget is delayed for any country election struggles for months, which will not last then! [[Abg. Bucher: Indecent!]] You do what you want with your majority here! These are the problems – if we are already talking about Parliament! We can also try a restart. [[It was in favour of Greens and BZÖ, as well as of members of the FPÖ.]] And it is only quite right that – I come back to the former Vice-Chairman Pröll – for the agreements on the committee of inquiry, which say that these minority rights are to be. This is half the rent or even more when it comes to combating corruption. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Your signature is on it, Mr Kopf, and your signature is on it, Mr Cap, but nothing goes further. [[Abg. Head: You... the negotiations!]] So if you've leased credibility, we'll turn this question around again – that's essential for this restart. But let us come to the essential tasks that lie ahead of us now! The energy transition: yes, nail samples, next month's offer to the Federal Government, also to the Minister Berlakovich, who has just survived – let's see if that was right – for the necessary ecological orientations of economic and energy policy. Eco electricity law: Profits from electricity companies should be invested differently and other budgetary priorities should be set. [[Abg. Grillic: What are the priorities?]] And the very first thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: Either the ÖVP is credible in terms of nuclear policy, or it will have to hold on to what else, as long as the Member of Parliament is fed by that RWE group, who expressly drives the hard liner position against the AKW exit in the Federal Republic of Germany. That's just such an unbelievable thing, you can march off everyone up there right now if you don't do anything there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Ecostrom Act is a “eco dead law” in Austria. All the other European countries are further. Otherwise, it would be impossible to explain why we are falling back. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is completely incorrect!]] Now it will also be time for us to finally invest the billions of electricity companies in public ownership where they belong – and not always in imaginative new power plants. That's all before yesterday! So a restart will be to be conceived, and we want to negotiate with you over the next four weeks – as well as in the fight against corruption. Of course, Members have to be taken into account at last – we have the worst provisions in Europe – and last but not least is the disclosure of the party donations and all the income of those people who sit inside here. [[Abg. Riedler: Ayatollah Kogler!]] As long as it is not clear what the gangs and the country organizations of the ÖVP are cashing from whom – because there is the rabbit in the pepper, and I know that you are refusing to disclose it – as long as that does not happen, you do not need to talk about a restart. [[Abg. Head: And your clubs?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11899	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11921	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As someone who has already experienced some government reforms and reforms here, I am already wondering about some statements today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Every year actually!]] Mr. Strache – as “the chief of the split tongue” – should be described as being loud in the tones, weak in the arguments, but at least strong in the untruths. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Call the FPÖ: This is not true!]] I've got an listing from him from Upper Austria. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper page up to date.]] He advertised that the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Greens had decided the banking packages against the will of the people and against the votes of the FPÖ. Remarkable! He voted in favour of this because he once showed responsibility, but the population is going to do something different again. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] The next false claim – one would have to say that he is a liar, but I cannot allow that, because then I would receive a call for order – is the next untruth he advertises, the claim that the liberals want Austria to supply itself with energy. [[Call to the ÖVP: Who pays this?]] – I can remind you of the Lambach power plant, ladies and gentlemen. There were the liberal Upper Austria with the demonstrators a heart and a soul. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: My goodness!]] They made cash, ladies and gentlemen! It was about renewable energy. You're ashamed that'd be more real! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: Since when is hydropower renewable energy?]] Ladies and gentlemen, you keep Wolfgang Schüssel in mind that he is the Supervisory Board of a German energy company, while the green trade unionist in this company is Vice-President! [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But he's not in any parliament in Austria!]] Check if you don't know, ladies and gentlemen. These are your representations of truth. You should think a little bit about what you claim. Ladies and gentlemen, I claim that this government is a team of professionals. [[Abg. Kickl: Raiffeisen-Sprecher!]] I also congratulate the new Vice-Cancecian Spindelegger on the nomination of these personalities. I believe that they will prove that they are doing positive work here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was remarkable to get so many commentators' sight to mind. Suddenly, someone was too young! They were all too old, and suddenly someone was too young. Well, I think that's a mistake that gets lower every day. Mr. State Secretary Kurz will prove that he can do something. We welcome the fact that such a young man has been given the opportunity to complement this team perfectly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My special joy – I do not know – is that Mrs. Dr. Maria Fekter has become the Federal Minister for Finance. I know her. She's from our federal state, from my constituency. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is that good or bad?]] It has in all its activities, you can still talk and claim so much, prove competence, no one can doubt it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It comes from an excellent family of entrepreneurs, who have proved what it means to do and not to miss something, with excellent security of their employees. They have shown what it means to run a farm and how to do it. She herself has proved as an excellent parliamentarian that she understands something about matter. She has proved, as an interior minister and also as a Volksanwalt, that she can be competent and consistent, and she will urgently need this in this budget execution in the finances, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. New builder: Just like in Eberau!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have a request to Mrs. Maria Fekter: It mentions as its principles of taxation: simpler and fairer. [[Abg. Street: Less for the citizens, she said!]] It is precisely on the question of easier handling that I must say: I was lucky to get my first grandson five years ago, and I completed a precautionary product – one and a half pages of information. This January I got a granddaughter again – the precautionary product had already 16 pages Enlightenment! All the bank officials tell me they're gonna give up, and the customers turn off. I therefore ask for a simpler tax legislation and less bureaucracy. I particularly congratulate you on your appointment as Federal Minister for Finance. You complement this team perfectly, and I am convinced that all of you will do excellent work again in this coalition.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12152	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12173	There is an event today and tomorrow, which is broadcast on television: tomorrow the royal wedding, today the coalitionary new wedding. If you see the two – Federal Chancellors and Vice Chancellors – sitting on top of the government bank, how they work on their content and now also optical confusion, you have to say that both events link a sentence: It must be love. [[Abg. Who's Kate and who's Will?]] This proved a sentence of the Federal Chancellor, who for me was the most amazing in the last weeks – not the government transformation, which exists every year, the ÖVP replaces ministers each year, but the sentence of the Federal Chancellor, who for the first time said as Federal Chancellor of the Republic: The new ÖVP-Obmann is a lucky grip for me. – I congratulate you, Mr Faymann and ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: After you have ridded the still dangerous bowl team after you have at least partially overcome the unloved Pröll team, you now have your wishful candidates in the ÖVP, who may also be in the government among you. Congratulations, Federal Chancellor and SPÖ Chairman! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] After the chaos, the ÖVP has decided on its own task, and its only reason to be there is only more of its role as a majority for the Social Democratic Party. Mr Spindelegger dances like this, praises his new great mentor, Mr Faymann. It will really be wonderful. It will be as seen in the mimik of Josef Cap, who today has performed a little like the Heinz Conrads of Austrian domestic policy – 40 years in office, always the same record –: The SPÖ is set from head to toe to love, and the ÖVP in Christian-social manner says: Can love be sin? - That's the acting you're offering today. That's really incredible! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then the new woman Minister of Finance comes here and speaks of great prosperity in the country – with 1 million people who are in poverty, with people who no longer come out with their incomes, while at the same time sending the money to the EU, to Greece or elsewhere – but the great prosperity has now broken out in Austria! [[Abg. Head: Hello!]] Mrs Fekter, you still have a lot to learn. You understand, at all events, the reform of the government – this remark already allows me, Mr Spindelegger – a bit wrong, that is, an inner-political cap game. The Minister of Foreign Affairs becomes a Party Minister, a Councillor of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior becomes a Minister of Finance and the Minister of Education becomes Minister of Justice, a cap game according to the motto: [[Abg. Street: Political Barbapas!]] Who's going to come out somewhere now? This is then supplemented by a self-proclaimed party lion, Austria’s most expensive stroll student in the office of a State Secretary by €15 000 a month. – “Congratulation”, that’s your choice! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This isn't about my age, for God's sake, no! ==References== Semester Jus – it's not that young at all! [[Abg. May. Stadler: In the 14th century. Semester!]] It's not about my age, but it's about me: The ÖVP always says: Qualification, performance! We are the party that has to deliver! – I wonder where the skills and performance in the integration and immigration area has been so far. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't know her. I can only measure Mr Kurz's actions to date. He has made three statements so far. [[Call to the ÖVP: An engineer is nothing to swear!]] The first one was: The immigrants, the foreigners must be able to speak German. Mr Kurz, yes, I am quite right, but we would not have needed you to do so, because when a certain Jörg Haider made this request in 1988, your best friends were still "Milupa", "Hipp" and "Pampers". [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Really!]] When Jörg Haider and the Freeman started a popular desire “Austria first” in 1993, when a central requirement was that finally German should be learned and organized as the Light Sea, also by the ÖVP, you just got the first school bag in your hand. So we didn't need you to do that. Then you said in the “Kronen Zeitung” and otherwise – that was completely incomprehensible to me – that immigration is not your topic. – That is what the Secretary of State for Integration says: is not his topic! He does not care about immigration, but only about integration. There you might need to explain that the origin of integration – the origin of your work! – Actually immigration is, Mr State Secretary. If you want immigration, I wonder what you're doing in this highly paid office. Mr State Secretary, you have not lost anything there if you do not want to have anything to do with immigration. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You made the third statement yesterday in the “ZiB 2”. On the question of how the issue of minarette is going to be more or less, he says he is against bans, but there should be no more. As a result, Mr Wolf asked: That means it's supposed to stay with the old man? Then he says: No, no, no, – So to speak, the invention of the fourth dimension: no less, no more, but it should not remain as it is. So here too, Mr State Secretary: Do not be angry, I will not judge you after your age, nor according to your qualifications, I will judge you according to what you have said, and that is enough on the first day after you take office! You're already overwhelmed. I really wish Austria all the best and I am looking forward to the BZÖ giving the line in the immigration policy in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12318	Next, Mrs. Mag. Mikl's head of business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12342	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated Members on the Government Bank! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The micro can't!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The pomp turned off the micro!]] A few days of excitement lie behind me – exciting and interesting days because I have been entrusted with an important and large state task for a few days, namely to take care of the security of this country. I say quite openly and honestly to you: I have accepted this task with great respect to the office and will also devote myself to this task with a lot of commitment, with a lot of effort, with all my commitment and my zeal and commitment to it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Those who know me know that I have worked in Lower Austria for many years, that I was allowed to be on the team of the Lower Austrian state government for almost eight years, that I have learned and worked a lot there and that I was able to take responsibility for social security there. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Straster, right?- Oh, my God!]] Now, in my new task, I can bear responsibility for the entire area of safety. If you look at this whole area of security, this wide field, it is, I think, simply important and necessary to be very quick in the matter, clear in the decision and, above all, human in dealing with it. I would like to take the opportunity and the opportunity to say thank you today, thanks to my party chairman Michael Spindelegger, who expresses his trust here. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Thanks to Erwin Pröll!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You forgot the head of state!]] I should like to thank my predecessor, Maria Fekter, as an interior minister, who, in the truest sense of the word, gives me a good basis, a Ministry of the Interior which, in the truest sense of the word – if I may say so so salopp – enables me to continue to pursue continuity, and which makes it possible for us to continue immediately with our 31,000 employees for the security of this country and for the more than 8 million people in that country. [[Abg. Grosz: Don't forget the tramper!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who's whiffing?]] [[Abg. Stitch: That's what's coming out of the last hole!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Petzner.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: According to Fekter, it's coming out of the last hole!]] What I am particularly looking forward to is cooperation with my State Secretary Sebastian Kurz. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is he whistling too?]] It has already been mentioned today: The division of tasks, the distribution of competence is quite clear: If it is a question of who is allowed to stay in the country or who has to leave that country, it is in my own competence. Once it is established that someone is legal in the country and is allowed to stay in the country, it must and should take place integration. [[Abg. Grosz: The Ministry of the Interior whistles!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do they have to whistle as well?]] And this falls within the competence of State Secretary Sebastian Kurz. That means that there are very clear competences. I also say quite openly and honestly to you: If you take over a task, like Sebastian Kurz, then it's not about the question of how old someone is, but about the question of how much courage he has. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How strong can he whistle?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kickl:... full year!]] And you can't buy courage. I look forward to working with my State Secretary Sebastian Kurz. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Does it dance shortly after your pipe?]] I also know, of course, that many of you have already formed an opinion where one or another thinks that with the team Mikl leader there will be mass immigration, that is, a massive back to the left. The others think again, it gets even harder and even stricter, we close everything, a massive back to the right. [[Abg. Grosz: speaking time!]] I'll tell you: When it comes to security, it is neither left nor right, but simply right or wrong. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then it'll be whistled!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President, you must not ring, you must whistle!]] [[Abg. Grosz: You can also give key signs!]] This is my highest limit: Right must remain right. Maximal rule of law – for that I stand and for that I will also work.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12672	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12687	I would like to offer you all a really good cooperation. And if I wish for something here, yes, I demand that we meet with respect and recognition; I miss one or the other. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do we have to pipe too?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Shut up!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12738	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12760	Mr President. [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you pipe too?]] We have already experienced numerous ideas from members of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing has not deserved this House, and one thing the ladies and gentlemen who have come to the Federal Government have not deserved to be treated in this way by some here. The public will take a picture of it itself, because not even a day to give someone a chance – the first day in the House – because we are actually something else used to. Mr Westenthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Here!]] I am not exactly the one to defend the ÖVP members. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are a united party!]] But if you already believe you need to talk about how quickly members of the Federal Government are exchanged, I say that if you are asking here today about the names of your ministers – you don't need to ask the people – who have been exchanged so quickly, they will no longer come to mind. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] That is why this statement, as I mean, is actually self-qualified. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Raadler: Krüger!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the government, especially the Federal Chancellor and, of course, Mr Vice-Chancellor. That was the first federal government, where after many years we have again for the police, at the end of the legislative period, a thousand more net planning posts. [[Abg. Grosz: (the debate of the speaker initiating) Poliz ei!]] Dear Mr Westenthaler, if you didn't always address it, I wouldn't replicate it: You were there when you abolished 3,000 plots. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why pipe...?]] Just so you don't think we always forget all of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: I believed that Mrs. Minister has political tinnitus!]] I think that this federal government has given the area of internal security the importance that is quite simply necessary. As one who knows the Minister of Finance for a very long time – we have been in the Committee on Justice for a long time and have worked together in the field of the Interior over the past few years – I would like to say: I should like to thank you, of course, for your new activity; that is no question at all. I can of course also offer good cooperation to the new Minister for the Interior. We are used to working together well, even if we often discuss hard, but we are committed and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, committed to the Austrians. [[Abg. Grosz: Thank you!]] Not only should there be an unbroken either a lamento or such an overwhelming criticism that there is no longer any higher. [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] – Yes, Ewald, it is, isn’t it? [[in the direction of the Abg. May. Stadler]] We know what the dramaturgical concept looks like. I just mean that we have an important task in the interests of our home country, in the interests of our citizens. That's not a hitz. I believe that no country... – Yes, you make a het of it, but the citizens will judge it. [[New cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is Cabaret!]] No country has mastered the last financial and economic crisis as sovereignly as Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is what you have to say, you have to congratulate this federal government, and here too you have to congratulate the government groups. [[Abg. Kickl: Mr Pendl,... is just before the collapse!]] As I mean, we have to remember one thing again and again: The facts are facts, Mr Kickl. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Facts are Fekter!]] There is not an outline with any argument; whether a certain political content is just pleased whether they are pleasant, that is another discussion. But we are very simply committed to the constitution, to the laws and to the voters. And if we want to carry out the important tasks – that is exactly what I am saying, which I am also working in the field of internal security – then we should always be careful that we are not talking about a fear here, because I think we have increasing intelligence rates, we have a dedicated police, we have dedicated executive officers to whom we owe something. [[Abg. Grosz: (the debate of the speaker initiating) Poliz ei!]] We should also thank them. I do so, I hope, on behalf of many colleagues, and I invite you all to continue this path in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13045	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13066	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Fekter for the great work she has done in the internal field over the last three years, thank you for all that she has done for security in our country. [[Abg. Grosz: Minister for Kiebery!]] We have put a lot on the way, we have made many great choices in terms of security, but of course also in the field of asylum and foreign law, important legislative measures to create orderly immigration and an orderly asylum and foreign law. Mrs Federal Minister Fekter! I am convinced that you will also be very involved in your new field of activity in the Ministry of Finance, and that we have the money in Austria in the safest hands. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to welcome the new Minister for the Interior, Hanni Mikl-Leiter, here in Parliament. [[Abg. Grosz: Even if it's whiffing!]] I have known them for a very long time, not only because I am a Lower Austrian Member, but also because I have worked for 27 years in local policy and of course also worked very closely with the present Mrs Innenminister. I have always admired her commitment and her desire to design. This will of design, of which I am convinced, will also implement it in the interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Although it's whiffing!]] With great commitment and a lot of skill, she brought the social and family evenings in Lower Austria to Vordermann, and she continued the successful path of the former Minister of the Interior Lese Prokop in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: The country is de facto pleading!]] I am thinking of the past years and of what it has implemented in the field of kindergarten offensive, in the disability field, but of course also of the extreme commitment in the field of work, where it was really behind the fight against unemployment. [[Abg. Kickl: Austria is de facto pleading!]] Of course, the area of youth unemployment has also been very impressively designed. With the same commitment, the Minister of the Interior will now also work for security in Austria; I am convinced of this. From our side, there will be the fullest support, and I am sure that it will be a good cooperation. [[Abg. Strache: This is not surprising now!]] Finally, and finally, she knows the work here in Parliament, she was a member of the House for three years and of course knows the cooperation between the member of the government and Parliament. [[Abg. Kickl: Straster was that too!]] I am convinced that there will really be a good and targeted work in the sense of security for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13195	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13216	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Until ten or fifteen minutes ago, I was inclined by the new Minister of the Interior to grant what is a little tradition in Austria, namely, 100 days of leisure time. But according to what I heard from the Minister of the Interior, the only substance that has come across the ramp today, namely that it is in the ministry, I can only say: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is that pipe!]] Quit the season and what is perhaps common in your Weidmanian language from Konrad to Treichl and Pröll! It's over! From today the political hunting season is open, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to come back to something because it is important and Mr Auer of the ÖVP has accused our Federal Party officer of lying in an advertisement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We have never agreed to a bank package of your kind. [[Abg. Wögerer: Uh, sure!]] It is true that we agreed with the first package that the Austrian savings funds will be secured. But in the case of the bank packages which were about to transfer billions to Greece, and in the case of the two rescue shields, there has been accentuated criticism from us. Stay with the facts! That's wrong. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rädler and Mr Wöginger.]] One word, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of data storage, because we are particularly concerned with security. This was today the first measure you have sold us as a great security policy performance, that all Austrians with their telecommunications data are observed for half a year with their Internet data. I wonder, How naive do you think the population is? Faith Are you really saying that a terrorist, a child-skin or someone interested in pedophilia goes to A1 or to T-Mobile and says there, there is my ID, I would like to have a contract, and then plan his jihadist or other terrorist activities?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] You can't tell anyone. They're going to take a value card handy. And those who remain are 8 million Austrians who are decent and who have not deserved to be controlled by you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Mikl- Leitner, before I deal with you very briefly, I have to say something that really is my heart. This is the change from the Minister Fekter of the Interior to the financial resort, which she accompanied with the words: I'm making finance now and I'm no longer there for the gibberies. This has two facets that are interesting to observe. First: One chooses anglicism, not even the word ‘financial policy’, but it is finance. There I am now no longer dealing with criminals, with the police, since I now have the industrial captains, I have the bank directors, I am now in finance. [[Call the ÖVP: Go, please!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] Secondly, They face this to the gibberies. [[Abg. Grosz: Finance is something other than finance! ... English...!]] Do you know, Mrs Fekter, what the word "kiefery" means, where does that word come from? – It comes from the Vienna Gauner language and is a devaluating concept for the police. I say our police didn't deserve this if you did a ministerial change to be so mistreated! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Vilimsky language!]] The police deserve our respect, the police deserve our recognition, the police finally deserve a salary system that meets the increased demands. The police deserve proper police inspections, proper equipment and finally have to get rid of the bureaucracy... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] No, not just say the right thing, and then you'll bet the cops' gibberies. That's indecent. That shouldn't be the case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Neo-Innenminister Mikl- Leitner, tomorrow we decide on a so-called foreign package that will have the content that you will introduce a red-and-white red card and a red-and-white-red-Plus card from the coalition, knowing that in Austria 320 000 people are without work, knowing that from 1. May – by the way – the labour market will be opened up to all Eastern European countries, knowing that half a billion people will theoretically be eligible for employment on the Austrian labour market. [[Abg. Rädler:... Czech Republic!]] That is not enough for you, because Mr Spindelegger said that we will get up to 100 000 people from outside Europe. [[Abg. Straw: Tumpel speaks of 280 000!]] I wonder, Who is that? Faith You really are saying that a Canadian scientist or an Australian chemist will come to Austria, where there are 80 percent high-qualified taxes, 50 percent tax rate, with 20 percent VAT, with a mineral oil tax that is getting higher and higher, and so on and so on? Do you think he's coming to Austria? What you're doing is to open up more cheap workers' door and door, because you're talking about industry and the economy and it's not enough for you to do what's happening on the European labour market, but you... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Tell me where people should come from! From North Africa? From Arabia? From the former CIS countries? – They still owe us the answer to who this is supposed to be. I say that both of you are parties to an intervening system, which is seen across Europe. And we from FPÖ are ready to face the red-and-white-red challenges, and that without If and But. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Wheeler]] They will sooner or later experience the day when there will be a German chancellor Heinz-Christian Strache.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13417	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13467	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A liberal speaker today called for the “cold office ” of prosecutors. Now a liberal speaker has opened the “Jagdseason” to a minister. [[Call the FPÖ:The political!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You need it!]] Mr Vilimsky. You're actually in the mood of politics? The center in the hunting season is that you go armed with a gun on the pirch and try to shoot at someone. [[Call the Greens: This is incredible!]] They publicly ask – perhaps only with words, perhaps with more, you have left it open – to shoot at a member of the government. [[Abg. Vilimsky:... you advertised!]] I think that's a terrible thing. This is inconceivable, and that has simply lost nothing in this house. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to say one more thing, Mr Vilimsky: If I look at the crime in Austria, I am very, very glad that average domestic crime and average foreign crime are clearly below average liberal crime. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is very reassuring. I wish the Minister of the Interior much and additional success in fighting the crimes in all three areas. But please remember not to mention the accumulation of crime in the liberal field – not only in the Carinthian state government! [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible! That's pathological with you!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is a sourry!]] This is very important, among other things, Mrs. Fekter, also for our state finances! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second 100-day probation period for new members of the government: This certainly applies to those who do not bring any political references or any political history. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkränz: immunity coward!]] This is the minority of the new members of the government. I am now dealing with the new Minister for the Interior, and it has a clear and clear political history. I can quote from two documents. First of all: A minutes of the meeting of 9. September 2002, ÖVP-internal meeting, preparation of the 2002 National Council election, so-called work packages, importance: high. This was led, among other things, for the election campaign in Lower Austria: “lp.mikl-leitner@vpnoe.at” “Dear friends, join the protocol incl. the work packages Next date: 19.9.’, ‘BP’s general line fixed’, ‘Schüssel-Brief’, ‘3.11. Electoral campaign start in Linz’ And then it's about what's going to happen in Lower Austria. There it says: “Work packages” – under the direction of Ms. Mikl- Leitner –: “Traditional election campaign, incl. urban election campaign (in the red strongholds, younger target group – ‘Beisltouren’)’ And then under competence: different persons. Then comes: “Sklagi/Günther/Klaudia” – “Sklagi” is Mr. Schlagenhaufen from the Lower Austria Party – “dirty-campaigning Gendarmen”. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, oh!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler:... abuse police apparatus for political purposes!]] Madam Minister for the Interior, explain to us: What was the “Dirty Campaign Gendarmen” in the 2002 National Council election campaign of the ÖVP Lower Austria? As an interior minister, you should be able to provide us with information about how the “Dirty Campaign Gendarmen” took place under your direction. [[Abg. Wheeler: Old hats!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] – Old hats are these? Someone who's preparing with me? Well, maybe you were there! Then go to the speaker's desk and tell us details! We need to know her because the then State Party Secretary is now the Minister of the Interior. I have two questions in this context, Mrs Innenminister! First: How did this Dirty Campaign work? And second: Are you willing to tolerate the same thing as an interior minister? – That is where we will ask for parliamentary questions, and we will discuss this in the next Committee on the Interior. Secondly, an e-mail: “Monday 16. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Strache: Is this the uncle or the cousin?]] This is about integration now. “Bad Schönau is a beautiful tourist community and it should stay as well. I don't want a vortex here until the LTW. The discussion is that the Pension Hofstätter (retired pension) is to take up refugees. I'm trying to disapprove of an assignment. Abg. NR Mag. Johanna Mikl-LeiterFederal Managing Director of the VP NÖ’. This is integration policy? [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: What did it cost?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very interesting!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I ask you, Madam Minister of the Interior: Before planning the next Dirty Campaign as Minister, you will clarify these two issues in good time and some of the others I will bring to the Committee on the Interior, before you continue the abuse of the Ministry of the Interior by your predecessor in the sense and on behalf of the Austrian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13687	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13710	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the High house! Yeah, that was really creepy. But it was by chance your community, Mr. Raddler, wasn't it? - No, not yours? [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true! Bad Erlach!]] Is it different in your community? - Oh, that's it! [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] We now know – and now we have heard a proof of this, we know from the investigation committee – how shamelessly the ÖVP is trying to link the party apparatus with the judicial apparatus, the prosecutor's office and the police apparatus, ladies and gentlemen! Today we got the proof of this. It is really disgraceful, Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner, that you will be presented with these stories on the day you are presented, but it is significant. That's why I'm not surprised you've already noticed the wheezing sounds in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Grosz: Like knocking!]] You just haven't told us which are the ghosts you've got in there. We know you're from the Grasser School, like your new Secretary-General – from the Strasser School! Excuse me, that was a Freud’s promise. They're not so far apart, the two gentlemen! We know you're from the Strasser School, and that promises nothing good for this resort. Ladies and gentlemen, this would also explain the dark face I have been observing all day with Mr Mitterlehner's Minister for Economic Affairs. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] I have always believed, ladies and gentlemen, that he himself wanted to become vice-channers and party leader, but now I know that he is unhappy because of what has so to speak fled to the government bank. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the ÖVPs, who are currently in a row of regrets about this form of government, are likely to have cause for regret. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] – Dear colleague from the police, every second ÖVP-ler you meet, laments you – whether asked or unsolicited. Everyone says: A disaster, what that is! A disaster! Miserably prepared, sluggish, all hated, really a single sequence of torments! I would not have believed it to this day, but after I heard and saw this cabaret number here, ladies and gentlemen, I believe every black person who is unhappy. For the first time, I was inclined to believe that when I heard radio with my children and heard Mrs. Finanzminister, as she said: Finance is something but the gibberies! [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] In a certain snake, she has still tried to bring in an originality. My children laughed heartily about such a minister. I said: Don't laugh, that's our new Minister of Finance! You'll soon be laughing, little children! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with BZÖ and FPÖ.]] I am already graying in front of the future of the Cabaretists in this country, because this federal government is all able to make them unemployed with a single imagination debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Wrong Anglizisms – “Finance”, Mrs. Federal Minister, is something different from what you mean in the Ministry of Finance! –, gibberies, whimsical sounds from the Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, despite clearly trying color: This is not the colorfulness you promised, Mr Vice-Chancellor! That's the x-te restart. Mr. Spindelegger, You love to tell the House how many new restarts the ÖVP has in this legislative period and how many new restarts you intend to deliver to us?- Oh, my God! That might be quite good, because then we could adjust to the restart. Apart from that, “Restart” is a significant start for your activity. As far as I know, “restart” is the name of this country’s most important parole aid facility, ladies and gentlemen – perhaps not quite random! You have already failed with your government team. I'll tell you why. First: Mr Schüssel, with this reform of government, with this so-called re-start for the xth time your era has finally ended! That's really the new thing now. The era bowl is now finally over. Such a cabaret number the German Chancellor Schüssel did not have to represent once. That's the new thing about this government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The second at this restart is the honesty that the ÖVP returns to its core areas. It is no longer the name of ÖVP, but the name ‘ÖBAUB’: Austrian Farmers' and Officials' Party. Please, Karlheinz Kopf, don't look so cruel! You would have almost become victims of this “ÖBAUB” conversion action. [[Cheerfulness with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] If the official had made Neugebauer place up there, you would now sit up there. [[pointing towards the Bureau]] Why, they wanted to get rid of you in the “ÖBAUB ”! [[Abg. Head: But that's what you believe!]] It's gonna be all right, it's gonna be all right. Patience, patience! They're still putting you on! [[Cheerfulness at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] That is to say, the ÖVP/ÖBAUB is still able to establish economic alliances. Isn't it, Minister Mitterlehner? Businesses currently have a bad life in this party. Mrs. Fekter is not a typical business partner, she is a functionary. ‘ÖBAUB’/Austrian Farming and Civil Service Party: These are the only professional groups, the only target groups you are interested in, ladies and gentlemen. And, please, to your lohudelies: I have now found out what you said about the Federal Minister Bandion-Ortner at the last government reform and at the last re-start – you, the vice chancellor, the then vice chancellor –: Independent Minister, signal for the independence of case law, impartiality of judicial administration, objectivity of prosecution. - Those were the highlights. And now we have a “ÖBAUB”/ÖAAB Secretary-General there, ladies and gentlemen! So much on the topic of restarting in the ÖVP. [[Abg. Head: So much about cabaret!]] I can only congratulate you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13871	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13892	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I took up my new office with a smiling and crying eye. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We would have been glad if you had made the Year of Judgment!]] With a crying therefore, because I was very happy to be a minister of science and science and research are very dear to me and I am more than ever convinced that science and research are essential to the future of our country. I have launched and would have liked to have completed many projects such as the Austrian university plan, quality assurance or the FTI strategy together with government colleagues. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, would you have done it!]] But I know science and research at Karlheinz's daughter in very good hands and wish him all the best for this task. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Didn't you get rid of the... three weeks ago?]] In the meantime, however, the joy of my new challenge, not only because it is a great challenge for me as a lawyer to be able to address me again. In addition, it is of course a particularly honorable task for a politician to be responsible for justice in that country. Fear, respect, trust: These are the values that shape my official understanding. Fear of justice, which as institutionalized justice is an essential cornerstone, indeed the basis of our society. But also awe of the great tasks that will lie ahead of me in the next few years. Respect for the staff in justice, for judges, for prosecutors, for judicial officers, for notaries, but, of course, for the staff in my house. They not only show great legal understanding and commitment, but also face challenges every day that simply require a lot of human sense. Unfortunately, this respect for the employees in the judicial system has been far too short in recent times. I want to put him in the foreground again. But also the confidence, confidence in the fact that our justice is better than it has been presented in recent times. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Trust in justice has suffered, and this is more than just worrying. In a democracy we must be able to rely on independent case law. This confidence, which the Justice has also deserved to restore, I see as one of my central tasks as Minister of Justice. Of course, I am also concerned with restoring confidence within justice. For the time being, there is a need for numerous discussions. My style is the style of dialogue. Only together will we be able to bring justice back to calmer water as a body of justice shaken at least in public perception. As a scientist, I am also used to discussing, considering arguments, taking a picture and then making the decision. This is also the way justice policy needs to go in the next few years. As Minister, however, I am particularly responsible for creating the conditions for a functioning rule of law. But that also means that we have to let justice work independently and in peace. I would also ask for the presumption of innocence for justice. The judicial system is not only made up of the prominent large-scale procedures, which are now in the focus, these prominent large-scale procedures, which are, of course, also in the field of criticism. Justice can do more, and this must now be communicated. We've got to go straight back to the slender picture. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, as responsible for our rule of law in Austria, are invited by me to support me in this honorable task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13973	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13994	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen ministers! Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl, you certainly have our full support in the implementation of your judicial programme, the joint judicial programme. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There was none! Get the picture right back!]] I also believe that it is important to keep reviewing, to stand still, to see how the situation is, how and by what means one can make improvements. Fear, respect and trust are key issues that are particularly important in the area of justice. If, as you have pointed out, we have a number of major procedures, which will almost manifest the functionality and justice in the judiciary, we must be aware of this importance and really set up activities which lead to an acceleration of the procedures which lead to a faster process and which will also result in priorities being placed in different areas. I think the discussion of the public prosecutor's office in recent months and the reform of criminal proceedings show that there is a relatively strong need for action. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a number of procedures. So we have not only the Grasser procedure and the BUWOG, but we also have the Meinl procedure, where we experience daily that one or a maximum of two prosecutors face seven or eight lawyers who are really fighting with all means, up to evasion. It is not surprising that we have a number of prosecutors in these prominent proceedings that have just thrown the towel that said: I am no longer procrastinating, I do not want to be exposed to it anymore, to be really deeply, often to be cut off on a personal level! and to have left these procedures. This, of course, leads to the act being handed over, that the procedures take even longer. Mrs Bundesminister, it is really important that we also show solidarity with these individuals in these areas and that we also stand up and say: I don't want to do this, I reject it; that's my prosecutor's office, that's our prosecutor's office! and that you won't allow it to be so suited. - I think that's very important. If, on the one hand, we have the issues of why there is nothing going on in large, prominent economic procedures, on the other hand, we have also raised the issue that, for example, in the animal protection process of § 278a – and we have discussed this very often here – the state is faced with a violence that is disproportionate from my point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is important that we discuss these provisions here. This is not only a question of enforcement, but of course it is also a question of legislation. If we have a provision that allows us to pursue animal protection and human beings, which are built in itself for large crime, whose objective is to pursue all of us socially recognized values, then we must think that something of the proportions is no longer quite properly set up here. On the one hand, Mrs Minister, I should like to ask you that, in the further discussion on this subject, we also approach the scientific side, but also here in Parliament, from the point of view of what we really wanted to do with this standard, which was directed against major crime, against terrorism, and where we are now aware that something is going wrong. There are also many positive projects pending. We have the General Civil Code for 200 years. This is certainly a time when one draws a summary over the norms: How can you further develop this? And in particular: How can the Austrian voice become stronger in harmonising legal development in Europe? We have contract law, we have family law, we have the opportunity in many, many areas to step up our participation in Europe, in the European Parliament, but also in relation to the Commission. If we have already held the discussion about data storage in the early days and will lead them again in the afternoon, we see how important it would have been – unfortunately, it was then God’s Lady Gastinger, who left out – to improve something or other in this directive. I believe that, as a small country, things in Europe can be further developed with great expertise, and we will certainly be happy to do so together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14031	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14052	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I welcome the new Minister of Justice, I would like to thank her predecessor Claudia Bandion-Ortner. It was already said today: Bandion-Ortner has acted as a party-independent minister, as a minister from the point of view of justice, as a judge, and has, of course, raised very high expectations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Ideal occupation, ” was said!]] [[Further calls to BZÖ and Greens.]] It has met many of these expectations in the short time, in the few years quite well, it has been very productive years. Everyone involved in the judicial committee knows: Many important judicial projects and judicial laws have been implemented in recent years together with Minister of Justice Bandion-Ortner, and this should not be mentioned today. I thank Claudia Bandion-Ortner expressly for their use and for the good cooperation here in the Hohe Haus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, I should also like to make a small side-by-note on how the public is dealing with politics, but above all the politicians among themselves. In order not to be misunderstood: Of course, nothing is against an objective, constructive discussion and criticism. Of course, a political discussion, a contentious discussion is to be held here, and of course it can sometimes be a bit more intense, it should be exchanged and even clashed. However, we should also ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, again and again – and today's discussion, unfortunately again – whether ongoing abuses, personal attacks against colleagues or members of the government and, again and again, unrestrained and unproven submissions really belong to and are expected by us. I do not believe this, ladies and gentlemen, If we have heard again today – only as examples – that the “cold office” of prosecutors is spoken of, from the opening of the “year season” on government members, when the main focus is on the increase here, then that, I think, not only hurts us, but it also hurts the political system, and it hurts democracy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, but now, of course, I can be the new Minister of Justice – you, dear Beatrix Karl! – welcome you very cordially in your new task here in the Hohe Haus and wish you all the best. As you yourself have just summarized, there are also great tasks in the field of justice, great challenges ahead of us. Trust in justice is certainly to be strengthened, restored – that is, by the way, I believe, a common task of all of us, not only the Minister of Justice and the Justice. The evaluation of the criminal process reform is under way; we have also agreed here that we will discuss the results very intensively and then implement any possible change. The issues of care and parental rights must be implemented. And of course, on the occasion of 200 years ABGB starts a large number of initiatives, from reform discussions to this important civil law. Beatrix Karl has not only a long experience as a parliamentarian, as a member of this House, as a colleague of many of us. In recent years, it has also demonstrated its leadership, its persistence, its consistency and also its solutions, I believe, very well. She is – and this too has already been mentioned several times today – a highly professional and highly qualified and competent professor of legal sciences as a habilitated professor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Justice Minister, you have all the conditions, all the skills for this difficult task. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I am looking forward to good cooperation in the future, and I should also like to call on all my colleagues here in this House to work together in such a constructive and good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14129	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14150	Mr President. Estimated representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor thanked and approved the exonerated Minister of Justice and welcomed the new one. On the one hand, what is striking is how a Christian party, the ÖVP – human, I say here – has been associated with Claudia Bandion-Ortner. You don't do that! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Minister Bandion-Ortner has been informed of her appointment from the media, she is sitting at home and has been crying for days, the press speaker has been reporting. [[Abg. Head: You've colded your own people! Don't talk about it!]] The second thing to notice is: The new Minister of Justice has clearly been occupied by political parties. One no longer seems to be, and no longer hangs around the coat of independence in the field of justice. This must be clear to the ÖVP: This ministry has now been occupied with a clear and reliable partygoer. Justice is black-colored – which means we know from the Ministry of the Interior: Here the e-mails were quoted, here interventions were quoted. In fact, that does not promise anything good! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what we are experiencing here today is a mutual renunciation, is a mutual patting, is a congratulation. The government is celebrating itself again. Last but not least three months ago – everyone can remember – they celebrated at Ballhausplatz, the invoices have been presented to us. There's no reason to celebrate! The only thing that has happened is actually an exchange of minds. In particular, to the ÖVP: You will not solve the internal problem of the ÖVP and, above all, the problems of the Austrians by replacing people with their heads. Not at all! This has in a very striking analysis Dr. Ferdinand Maier – where is he? – made accessible to his clubman and all here in Parliament. He has analyzed the system and problem of the ÖVP, Klubobmann head, very carefully and hit the head. [[Abg. Head: I'm glad you're worried!]] Ferdinand Maier wrote: “The benevolent abandonment with which we act, the communication and discussion UN culture, but also strategy and inability,” – the inconsistency, Mr. Klubobmann Kopf! – “with which the members of the ÖVP Parliamentary Club are increasingly confronted, all have not yet been stunned into increasing internal emigration. And the political competitors on high-flights,...” correctly analyzed! The four problems of the ÖVP are listed: a “Führungsdilemma”, a “Communication Dilemma”, a “Recruitation Dilemma” – I look to the right – and a “Transparency Dilemma” – the “Elves policy” in which the ÖVP is located. [[the speaker looks towards State Secretary Kurz]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – This is the analysis of a former ÖVP Secretary General, a club member who has actually hit the nail on your head for your party – and the headnicking shows that he is not quite wrong. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you already cannot solve your problems internally – empty as Maier notes –: For the Austrians you will not do this! The German Chancellor's statement, Mr Vice-Chancellor, has had two statements. [[Abg. Großruck:... much too long in the solarium!]] One thing is: Unemployment is so positive that everything has been best done. And in the interior: We need security on the Internet. – We don’t need security on the Internet, we need road safety! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the situation on the labour market, I only say: ==References== May this situation is heightened. – Mr Bundeskanzler, this is not an analysis that the Austrians and the liberals have met for themselves, but it is an analysis that the labour market service has taken. I refer to “The Press” in which it reads: ‘Number of unemployed will rise again this year.’ The head of the AMS, Mr Herbert Buchinger, writes: “The AMS is not expecting fewer unemployed people until 2013 because of the urge of new workers.” Mr Bundeskanzler, I believe, rather, that the head of the AMS, who points out precisely this situation, is that the opening of the labour market, of course, because of the different levels of wages in our neighbouring countries, threatens the Austrians in reality to face a disastrous situation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are the problems that the Austrians are dealing with, and not whether a woman, Huber or a Mr Maier, is sitting on the government bank and is empty – as Ferdinand Maier has carefully analysed – solving the problems. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] I can tell you where the problem lies you think exclusively in heads, in posts and in offices. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] – We are thinking of the problems of the Austrians and are the only party that also says Yes to Austria. [[President Neugebauer once again gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14285	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14306	Ladies and gentlemen! If you have observed the last two weeks, you have already got a little doubt about the governance of the ÖVP. [[Call at BZÖ: Which means doubt!]] As the new ÖVP partyist Spindelegger was forced to distribute nine government offices to nine federal states and three states according to a formula that is not mathematically soluble, was already unique. I always had the impression that the quality criterion does not matter. I do not want to say that you would have had something against quality, but it was simply not relevant to the selection of personnel! I think this is a highly problematic issue, because it is not just about the EIA, but about the most important offices in the Republic. Mr. Partyobmann Spindelegger, I tell you quite honestly: My mood has fluctuated between compassion and horror, and I also do not want to hide that at the end the horror has kept my upper hand. The ÖVP has all remained with the old, it applies: Bundles and prunds. This is crucial for the selection of staff – and nothing else! If we come to the Ministry of Justice, then this mathematical formula within the ÖVP has led us to get Beatrix Karl as the Minister of Justice, who says, of course, that she prefers to remain a minister of science. I wouldn't blame you for that. I think it's even refreshingly honest. It is a question of personal taste and competence which one takes more important. Only one thing is clear: You're damned in your new function of success! Justice can no longer afford another chaos, because nothing is more toxic to democracy than if the rule of law and politics suffer in the face of the population. It is precisely this issue that we are now facing, which is why you are faced with a difficult task. There are two questions on which we will measure you. The one question is relatively simple and answered quickly. Her predecessor took a few months to get rid of the strict anti-corruption rules. That was the wrong signal! My question to you: Will you manage to intensify this corruption package in a very few months and really fight corruption in this country? You know what the central points are. Finally, we need an effective stand against the corruption of Members. This, whereas Strasser is now being identified, would not be punishable for Austrian parliamentarians. No one understands! You know, the Austrian Parliament has been equipped with a corruption privilege two years ago, which needs to be eliminated. That's where you're required. The second is the famous “feding. ” It is now possible, after the Bandion-Ortner's corruption-circuit package, that important decision-makers from the office and politics are being fed again and again: that, for example, an armaments group always officials or a minister – this is not a concrete example, but it is a fictitious example – invite – that is not punishable – so that, if decisions fall, the mood for a particular armaments group is good. No one understands! The third thing that no one understands is that two years ago the managers of close-to-state operations were excluded from the strict rules of corruption. No one understands that, although the taxpayer must be liable for OeBB and ASFINAG debts, all those such as private managers are treated under corruption law and that not the strict rules apply to officials. All that belongs to removed. The question is: Is that what you want? – We will measure you by this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second question: Do you want a state-independent and efficient prosecution? – As a minister, her predecessor led the prosecutor to a veritable crisis. Do you want a major reform, that there is an independent prosecutor's office that is being controlled by parliamentarians, or don't you want it? The solution that the Minister of Justice has been driving so far – I may give instructions and I want to give instructions, but don't give it; then she has given instructions – will certainly lead to the crisis and into chaos, because no one understands that, if there is any abuse, one first looks away and then, when the media look, suddenly becomes active. In this sense: We offer you cooperation within the framework of this expectation. I tell you – that is perhaps relatively untypical for the opposition – our interest is not that you fail. We want you to lead justice out of the crisis and that reforms succeed so that this rule of law important institution can regain its reputation. If you are ready for this cooperation, we will be at your disposal; if you are not, then we will clearly mention it. In this sense, I wish you all the best, and I promise you, you will soon hear from me how I am satisfied with you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14362	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14383	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has – as so often, some speeches repeat for many years again and again – come up with a call to the opposition, but to present proposals for solutions and concrete content. Ladies and gentlemen – especially gentlemen of the government parties – did you really listen to what has come from the government representatives today? So little do we bring together throughout Parliament meetings and -days – apart from the thousand opposition requests that lie untreated in the committees – as has been the case here today. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] If you want a restart here – and perhaps it's not quite a coincidence that "restart" is also the name for a parole aid organization – then we would have – yes, you already heard it, it's nice that you say that – today like to hear from you how you want to work for Austria for the next two years, quite concretely, not as an announcement in the Ministry of the Interior that it's ringing there. [[Interim note from the Intergovernmental Bank]] I don't know – are the windows narrow? [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] Is there police music, or is it anything else? [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. What does that mean? As a Carinthian, I don't understand!]] What's that, please? As a concrete statement from the Ministry of the Interior, how to protect the security of citizens in the future: It whistles in the Interior Ministry – great! Mrs. Justice Minister Dr. Karl, you know, I have always appreciated you as a Member of Parliament. Your own party has replaced you when it came to negotiating the important educational reform – to this day we are waiting for it. So the great advance of confidence was not given, but the alliance structure seems to have brought you into this office now. They say: The presumption of innocence applies to justice. – A greater distrust cannot be met by this institution as a minister than by this stand-up, which occurs in every article, when it comes to galeries, to repeat here! This too is a clear statement on future judicial policy. Mrs. Fekter, you said you were the taxpayer's lawyer. – We heard that from the last Minister of Finance – a dangerous threat! The handle in the taxpayers' pockets is obvious, and also that the billions have then been carried to Brussels, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Finanzminister – she is not here right now, but perhaps she will be executed – are you prepared to be able to discuss and vote at least here over these packages, with which billions are being transferred to renovate the banks – it is not about states – the international banks in Greece, Portugal, Spain, Ireland and where else billions of taxpayers are still being transferred? Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, how many years have we discussed the € 2 billion for the interception hunters? – Investigation Committees, urgent inquiries et cetera, over €2 billion. But the billion € per year – we don't know how long – that we're sending out to Brussels without a return, goes songless and soundless without debate, without a decision by the High House; also an interesting institution and an interesting agitation of the Federal Government. Mr Bundeskanzler, that you are happy about government reform, is clear, because the one who has worked firmly against your policy in the Federal Government and has moved to the field against various abuses, such as the Bundesbahnen, – Mr. State Secretary Lopatka – has now been removed. This “disturbing element” is not so important. What has particularly surprised me with the ÖVP economic party is that one of the few areas of activity – I do not want to harm you, Mr. Mitterlehner – in this Federal Government of the Minister of Economic Affairs, who has also provided for it in this crisis, is against many resistances also in the public institutions and in the Federal Government, which, above all, supports the small and medium-sized economy. Dr. Mitterlehner has also put in place some good legislative initiatives – and not only does he not only take away the family state secretariat, but he also shows that the economy is being put behind civil servants' interests and so on. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] By the way, Mrs Fekter, Minister of Finance, who you are not here: You have already stated in the press that an important future measure will be deleted, namely the administrative reform. We do not need them because there are individual measures in the federal states anyway. Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor, this has been one of the most important priorities! For many years now, we have been discussing the fact that the savings should be right there, in the administrative reform rather than in tax increases. That's what you're saying now. Is that agreed in the Federal Government? Where are these working groups, “Austria talks”, where all this has been discussed? – I am still very excited about what we have to expect from this government. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister Dr. Spindelegger, I would hope that you will at least take a positive step in the new office, which is to take back something that is happening behind our backs. In fact, you are carrying out a number of embassies in sensitive areas of the Middle East, although you have promised something else, including here in Parliament. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Spindelegger.]] You are logically going to the Middle East, where you will have talks and promise €17 million of guarantees, but because of €500 000 a year, you will close messages in small Arab countries instead of giving assistance to stabilisation. This too is the wrong step, as it has been the wrong step, Mrs. former Minister of Science Dr. Karl – you know – has been put to zero by non-university research for the next budgets. It would be an important initiative, Mr. new Minister of Science Dr. Däderle, to take this back again, because here a lot of experience, a lot of action and many possibilities of education are being destroyed accordingly for the citizens. It is absolutely unacceptable to put on zero. This is once again a disappointment. The restart is already a pipecreper. The big tiger, who has occurred, ends up as a political bedhead. It is a pity because the next two years will be like the last two years; one wants to win time in this government to delay the election disaster that is due to it a little bit longer. For Austria, the time is lost, and this is very bad especially in these times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14472	Mr Federal Minister Dr. Däderle has been reported to speak. I'll give him the word. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14493	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen from the government! Dear listeners on the ranks, especially dear young people! I'm glad some have endured for so long, because I think what I'm saying concerns you. It is very central to the future of youth and the future of this country in my department. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I think that this sentence is undisputed everywhere that there is agreement on it. So there are other points of agreement in my department, namely the agreement on the objectives to correct, appreciate and expand the weaknesses recognised and generally agreed in our education and science system and the strengths that are undoubtedly present. On the basis of these many common principles, which, I believe, we all share, I have chosen a motto that I would like to put to my work: Viribus unitis to work with united forces on improving scientific, research and education policies in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Of course I don't know the differences we have. They're often small. They are often only chosen for the purpose of their own profiling. For example, there is agreement that universities need more money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] I assume – and this is certain – that the agreement reached last autumn between the Federal Chancellor, The Vice-Cancellor at the time and the rectors, in order to set up a course of funding, will be a way to more money. I am convinced that we will achieve significant improvements in the university budget negotiations in autumn for the next service agreement period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also need more money for research. I can also build on a good basis, which was prepared by my predecessor, namely the FTI strategy, which will still be the subject in this House and where, after the successful wording of this strategy, it is now about concrete implementation, which is difficult, but which has now gained a good basis. There, too, cooperation, joint action is important, common ground between the different university types and the types of tertiary education, between the many very skilled researchers we have in our country. There's a lot of them. They must be brought together even more and above all the transfer of technology, science, innovation to society and the economy, and here – because it has been said more often today – to small and medium-sized enterprises. This transfer is particularly important and particularly effective. Of course, we also need to use our resources as efficiently as possible. The higher education plan, which I have started and continued, can help to do this. I can also give a reply to Mr Scheibner: This university plan also provides for a good anchoring of the non-university research institutions. We are already on a very good path here, and some who have commented very anxiously in the beginning have seen how well they can be integrated here. This is a good thing, I believe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also refer to a success story from Tyrol. I founded the Tirol University Conference in Tyrol, where all university types – public and private universities, specialist universities, pedagogical universities – work together instead of as before alongside each other or even against each other. We will try a similar model for all of Austria. This will be done within the framework of this higher education plan. Something's important to me, too. As a rector of the University of Innsbruck, I have managed to stay in a very constructive conversation with the students even in difficult times. I would like to continue, and I invite the students to try this with me. I am convinced that we will come to good solutions together. That is why I would like to return to my motto: We do not need to forget, in a democratic constitution, in which, of course, the dispute, the political debate is part of the essence of democracy, we need to strive to see the commonplace. I'll invite you all: Let us leave the ideological bastions and go into a contest of the best ideas! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14594	Before I speak to Mrs Magistrate. In the light of the changed circumstances, I am in favour of the order that we are still in an agreed term of speech, but this is no longer so strictly observed. It is a voluntary limitation on speaking time, which I am going to enter, but finally there is an overrun on the part of the political groups. Please, Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. I'll set you up for 5 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14620	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to wish Dr. Karl all the best for her new task, and I should also like to welcome the new Minister of Science Dr. Dägele. We will together have to make many important choices in the coming months – with united forces, as I hope. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I am also very much on your side that it is important to first define common goals and agree on common goals. I have read from you, Dr. Däderle, the sentence that it is an educational policy goal of yours to enable as many people as possible to have the best possible education. I can only stress this, but I would add that it is our common political responsibility to enable what is desirable and to enable as many young people as possible to have the best possible education. We only heard yesterday, in connection with published data, that educational opportunities in Austria are highly inherited. I therefore believe that continuing to work on this problem is a great responsibility that we have and must perceive. In this context, of course, it is particularly important for us Social Democrats to make access to universities without social barriers. In our view, the sentence still applies that we do not have too many students in Austria, but on bad conditions. This is one of the key challenges facing each other in the next few years. You're waiting for us, Minister of State, Dr. Däderle, big construction sites. The biggest and most important and the hardest point, as you have mentioned, is the budget question. You know that very well as a former rector. They also participated in the protest days as a rector. They refer to the budget to be negotiated in autumn, and I also hope in this budget. They pointed out that there was a consensus on the need for more money for universities. – I hope it is, and I also build on it very much. We have already heard from the Federal Chancellor today the confession that it is about saving in the right place, increasing the strengths of the country and investing in education, science and research. And to my great pleasure, in one of the first statements made by the new Minister of Finance Fekter, I heard that she also stressed that investment in education, science and research is one of the country's key investments in the future. And if we know anything about Maria Fekter, then it's that she really gets stuck behind it when you're something important. Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, I am very much in favour of this, because as Minister of Finance, you have a very important word to speak in this context – at the latest in autumn. Especially on this central and most important point, I very much support you, very much, and I hope that in autumn we will be able to bring a lot of things on the way. Now to the construction sites. the university plan, which you have already mentioned, is a really central and large project, the study site funding, where you are required to develop a fair model: fair in compensation among universities, but also fair in terms of the fact that this model must not lead to a reduction in study places. Another important point you know as the former rector of Innsbruck is that we need to find a European solution in connection with the Numerus Claus refugees; also a very central and important task and challenge. Mr. Federal Minister, many important projects. I look forward to constructive cooperation with united forces.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14698	Mr Scheibner spoke on the Rules of Procedure. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14723	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, if I have properly understood this, we are in a debate on the presentation of the new members of the government, which Mr Spindelegger has presented here. Finally, he is also in a new position, for all of us, but has obviously left the meeting room permanently and not only in the short term. I think that – contrary to what has been said here today: that Parliament should be more involved – is an affront of Parliament, because we also want to discuss this change of government with the Vice-Cancellor. That is why I consider the presence of the vice-chandant Spindelegger absolutely necessary. I therefore ask you to tell us that Mr. Vice-Chancellor will come back soon. Otherwise, Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to request the presence of this House by decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14756	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14780	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I support this concern which has just been expressed, because even if the television cameras are switched off, we want to continue to talk about the essential tasks for the new members of the government. And that's where the new vice chancellor is directly affected. Therefore: It would be very important for us as mandates that Mr Vice-Chancellor is here too, so that he can present himself with this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14805	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14826	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already experienced a lot in the discussion, I think, but I think it is enough if the Federal Chancellor and almost all the Federal Government are here. I can only say that this is a point of order to get rid of a discussion of the Rules of Procedure, whether some Minister or some other Vice-Chancellor has been sitting here during this debate for the whole morning: Everyone knows what it's all about; let's do that in the right light. I think that this discussion should take place again at the objective level – and not only on the purely political level, because the topics are far too important, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14858	Mr Klubobmann's head also spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14883	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We originally had the agreement that we are today leading to the presentation of the new members of the Federal Government, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] We have agreed to a Rules of Procedure, but you from the opposition parties have broken this agreement unilaterally – I have said this before – and have broken a business order properly, but otherwise completely unnecessary debate on today's agenda, although the agenda was adopted unanimously and unanimously in the presidential. Now to make a request to quote the Vice-Chancellor, after the time agreed for this debate, fits in with what you did at the beginning of the meeting: They're breaking agreements with us on the ongoing band. You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14928	Mrs Klubobfrau Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek also spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14952	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot understand the excitement of Mr Klubobmann's head at all, for he should look at it in the Rules of Procedure, § 18 para. 3: “The National Council and its committees and their subcommittees may require the presence of members of the Federal Government.” This is a right of the National Council – and we ask it to do so. I support the request that this be put to the vote. By the way: It was never clear that at 1 p.m. the members of the government could leave the house here. On the contrary: We wanted to take a long time today to discuss the future with this new Federal Government in detail.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14983	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner has submitted the application for business treatment, the National Council wishes to do so within the meaning of § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure require the presence of the Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for European and International Affairs. [[Call the BZÖ: We do this every quarter of an hour!]] Such a request shall be put to the vote immediately. We therefore come to the vote. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for Mr Vice-Chancellor's permission. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where is he?]] The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15037	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! [[Unrest in the hall.]] The excitement is so great that listening to some is difficult. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No! I'm listening!]] It's easier to quote than to listen. I should therefore first of all like to draw attention to how this House should be.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15108	Ladies and gentlemen! The speaker is perfectly right, and I therefore ask that you follow the debate to listen to her. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15126	First of all, I would like to congratulate the new Minister of Science Dr. Däderle on his mission. I believe that today, Mr Federal Minister, has shown you that it is important that matters and expertise are present in this House. You, Dr. Däderle, have a lot of experience in university management. They have been exemplary in leading the University of Innsbruck, have been re-elected and are faced with this new challenge. I look forward to working together. But I am also pleased that the views of universities and colleges, the views of the tertiary area, are included in this House. You will certainly continue to lift the quality of our discussion and today's show that more quality here in the house is doing well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, with your task, you take on a lot of responsibility, as you have already mentioned today, for the future, for the future of our country, but also for the future of our youth. The fact that education and research, especially those target groups, are a major concern, you have demonstrated this in the university dialogue, but you have shown it again today. Having been a university partnership is a good basis to jointly shape science and higher education policy. For this I wish you a lot of courage, a lot of strength, a lot of endurance, but also that power of gathering all the forces – as you have mentioned today – here in the house, because we need a number of common ways of ensuring the future of our universities accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One of these first measures is the funding of study places. There is also our full support in the development of this model. I think we will be able to develop good models here in dialogue with universities, and then we will be able to provide the relevant resources. Yes, universities and universities need more money, but more money that must be built on the three pillars: Study contributions on the one hand, increasing public funding on the other, and increasing further efforts to make third-party funding. With these three pillars, we will be able to meet the future challenges of universities and colleges and thus ensure the competitiveness of our universities, including for the future. The FTI Strategy is a joint commitment by this Federal Government to focus research, to become innovation leader and to shape the security and future of Austria. Six departments pool their forces in the FTI strategy. An important component of this is also basic research. The universities and specialized universities are important partners for the university and research landscape in Austria. The higher education plan has started. I would also like to thank you, the divorced Minister of Science and the new Minister of Justice, for your work that you have done in the preparatory work of the Higher Education Plan, in the preparatory work on quality assurance, as well as in the introduction of the study entrance phase, which will prove itself this autumn. I wish you as much strength for the future and thank you and your cabinet and the house for good cooperation. I would like the new minister to be welcomed to the centre as well. – Good and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15199	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15221	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government, especially Mr. Girls! You said something in your first speech, which also gives reason to think. Dr. Däderle, you have said you wish yourself a competition of the best ideas and less ideology. I believe that this is the right thing to do, because we note that the opposition parties – and I would like to stress this twice again today – are also putting very many requests, ideas, proposals into this parliamentary work. But they often fail in this old soft system, that applications of the opposition are automatically rejected or postponed or shubbled. [[Abg. Wheelers:... scientifically based!]] That's why it hurt us very much today, when Klubobmann Cap said: Well, where are your proposals? – On the one hand, more than 1,000 opposition requests are available in the committees to be processed there, and on the other hand, we have actually heard very little of concrete new proposals from the members of the Federal Government today. [[Call the FPÖ:Nothing!]] I believe – if I do not just address individual sites now – that overall the most essential task of dealing with Austria is the reform of the state on and on its own. It is about how we are further developing direct democracy in Austria. Is it possible in Austria to automatically initiate a mandatory referendum after a successful popular desire? Is it really possible to implement a genuine administrative reform in Austria? The Federal Accounting Court's proposals are on the table, and we, all opposition parties, have already said several times that we would be prepared to make the necessary votes for a two-thirds majority for an administrative reform. But it also fails again on the old, soft system. There are very powerful, influential national leaders in the Federal Party Boards of Government, who are not interested in the implementation of these reforms in some areas. For this very reason, and only for this reason, all of us do not have such important administrative reform in Austria, and this costs us a lot of money every year, money that we need in the future, for example for the financing of long-term care. Austria spends about 1.2 percent of GDP on long-term care. Other countries such as Denmark, about 2.6 to 2.8 percent of GDP. This shows us that we also need to develop in this direction in Austria. We're going to have to take more money for it. And if we do not enjoy this money through better administration, more economical administration in healthcare, then we will have to use new taxes, new taxes to finance it and destroy jobs and weaken Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must also implement the health reform. We have huge loss of friction in the health sector by financing from a variety of pots, including Dr. Rasinger, because the family doctor is getting less and less support. I know a lot of domestic doctors who say it will be more difficult to survive financially. There are a variety of investments to be made into ordination, assistants must be paid, but financial survival is often difficult. There are also fewer and fewer doctors who are willing to take over the function of the municipal doctor. If school examinations need to be carried out, body viewing and so on – these are all tasks that are challenging and where payment is really not the best compared to other countries. It's actually like that. A friend of mine is an assistant at a hospital. If I look at the working time and see how many hours she actually has to be in the hospital – a young doctor – I have to say that's really not much she gets for it. [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... doctors are not paid badly!]] Sure, later, when everything fits, she'll earn again once, if, if. But this commitment she has to make is really about health. If I compare the performance that many of us do as politicians, with what many doctors have to do, then the doctors are certainly not overpaid, ladies and gentlemen. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: FPÖ politician!]] I don't think so. “FPÖ politician”, the Federal Chancellor said behind me. The Federal Chancellor is a funny man. He smiles most of the time, but he's still a lot more – and the only call he's made today is quiet behind me, because he didn't dare, the FPÖ politicians are the ones who deserve too much. – Mr Federal Chancellor, I can tell you that you are certainly the worst German chancellor that this Republic has seen in all these years. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Faymann]] The worst! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am looking forward to the next elections, Mr. Federal Chancellor! They always say that there is no possible cooperation with the FPÖ. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: Right!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you know that your State Secretary, Ostermayer, would be by far the better German chancellor, certainly, I can tell you, because we have worked very well with him. I have the impression that you, Mr Faymann, may not be German chancellors after the next election, and then you will see how the talks between the parties are going after the election. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: We have the same impression of you!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you have to understand that I am reacting in this way, because I do not expect a German chancellor to have such a strange, little intelligent, plumping, primitive call; I do not like that at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15371	The next speaker spoke with a Rules of Procedure: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15395	Mr President. First of all, my respect for the Chancellor – with all the criticism – because although it is not his part of the government team, which has been changed and is being presented today, he continues to follow the debate closely, which we MEPs of course welcome. It is all the more regrettable, therefore, that Mr. Spindelegger, who is responsible for the part that is being presented today, has simply adopted himself with a handshake for everyone, left the hall with a slight swing and leaves the debate to be debate. I consider that not only to be despective, but also to be against the practices of parliamentarianism. Mr Klubobmann's head, if you really believe, if you seriously mean what You said in advance that there would be an agreement between the parties that the debate should take place only from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., then you are the only one here who believes this, because the debate was only broadcast on television from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., but the debate was, of course, quite normal from 1 p.m. onwards. And your party observer and vice chancellor has the obligation to be here in the debate when his government team, which he is presenting to Parliament today, and he himself, is being discussed here today. [[Abg. Grosz: He himself too!]] I therefore propose that Mr Vice-Chancellor be present and that we vote on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15439	Mr Klubobmann spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15463	If I remember correctly, this was the second word on the part of the BZÖ, in any case the result. [[Abg. Wheeler: Join several fools with the stupidity!]] On the question of attendance: Today, we have had the opportunity to deal with the individual statements made by members of the government since early, and we have the opportunity to hear individual statements from members of the government here as well, and we have the possibility that we will then also have a corresponding round of words in the course of the speeches, where we will then also deal with the contents. [[Abg. Scheibner: They're not coming! Just take it off!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I would have looked at you in the opposition!]] There have been extensive statements by the Deputy Chancellor, the Federal Chancellor, so I don't understand what the new insituation means here now, because it's about that in the... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't know!]] [[Abg. Grosz: You're all there, you can stop!]] - You have to let me talk now. It is a question of being able to deal with the individual content of the members of the government in the future, and therefore, I think, one should focus on the content. [[Abg. Grosz: A little slower!]] – I thought that from the point of view it’s easier, I’m talking a little slower so you can write a little bit for the next, for the next, and for the next word. Strangely, I find this strange now: We meet here, we are discussing this, and these exercises that are being organised here are legitimate, but I wonder: What's that supposed to do? We can still vote x-time – that is all right – but I would like to hear from your Members something about the individual statements made by the members of the government. That would be a real concern to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15580	I would just like to say for the continuation of the debate that from now on I will pay more attention to the Rules of Procedure and also to the Rules of Procedure that these are formal statements of speech on the Rules of Procedure – and not just time will be gained. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[He-Rufe at FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] I agree that the last speech to the Rules of Procedure was not within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, and it remains to me that way. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's what I'm looking at!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Josef Cap breaks the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It was tabled by Mr Westenthaler in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to demand the presence of the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of State for European and International Affairs. As this request stands and no further debate is desired, this request should be put to the vote immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15657	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear listeners and spectators in the galleries! We are now debating science, and I would like to say that science serves the truth, science is supposed to solve puzzles, it is looking for the truth, and it finds it. In this context, I come very briefly to speak on Klubobmann's head, who said to the opposition, Austria is beautiful. I have the impression that he believes that the ÖVP bears the responsibility for this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you have any doubts about this?]] I draw him's attention to this: The ÖVP is not quoted in the history of creation and was founded at least 13 billion years later. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I wish the former Minister of Science for her new task all the best, more money, of course, and I am pleased to be able to welcome a good acquaintance from Innsbruck as a minister of science. In the beginning, I call it its advantages: He knows the problems of the universities, he feels the precarious financial situation on his own and also sees their fatal effects in teaching and research. He had very scurry negotiations for the performance agreements, he was very courageous and courageous – but it did not use anything. I wish you, Mr Minister, now that all of this will be useful in the future. I also thought of the text Viribus of the United States, which was the last tank cruiser of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. He's been sunk. – I don't wish you that! We now have it black on white: The budgets are falling – the government can tell us what it wants. We have the Federal Financial Framework Act, and the money at the universities is becoming less and less ongoing. I wish you, Minister of the State, daughters, very, very good luck, and of course we would support it if you believed that in the autumn of this Federal Financial Framework Act, which is binding and which lays down binding limits, will be able to secure it. I wouldn't rather than that. In fact, reality looks different, and reality should be considered as a scientist and parliamentarian or MP, even if one belongs to a government party. The future rector of the University of Vienna says that only the Uni Wien is now missing €150 million. All 21 universities needed an additional billion – not 2020, now! – in order to be able to get up on this budget path, which is mentioned in the Government Declaration, and then reach this 2% of GDP. This is not possible – the Federal Financial Framework Act is more binding here than the Government Declaration, you have to say – otherwise you have to innovation it, and I don't know if this is done voluntarily. Another sad communication from the Research and Technology Council, with Joanneum Research: They have found that in the next few years at the universities of investment alone in infrastructure to get closer to European level, €600 million is missing! 600 million €! And if you want more and more of the universities – you talk about excellence, world class, cluster formations, dissertation programs, competitiveness, better impact of publications – then you can't do that with less money, everyone has to understand. Money is not all, as Androsch said – Van der Bellen heard it too – but without money is nothing. If Sünkel says he has to release thousands of people because he can no longer pay them if others believe that one can only achieve the quality in teaching for students if one is reduced by one third, this is not an innovative education policy. This is an educational brake, quite clearly, and a stagnation. In doing so, we need a broadening of education. All scientific councils and experts say: We need more students. You'll see how much money is really made for it. I already have a few questions: The Science Fund complains and declares that research cannot become a half-time job. Due to the precarious financial situation, the temporary service conditions are increasing rapidly, the regular staff are declining or thinned out by the retired officials. And who will pass on the knowledge in the future if all have to apply after six years for jobs that are no longer available? These jobs are still being shared, these are precarious employment conditions! I would ask you to really give to young people and young scientists opportunities and prospects. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] Nice speeches in Alpbach and elsewhere do little for us. At the end – I say that privately –: When studying international development, you have to offer students a master's degree, otherwise thousands stand at the door, and that is embarrassing for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15720	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15741	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the rest of the government! High house! Today, in this performance, this government bank should have signaled a fresh start. But what did we hear? – As long as the cameras were there: great thanks for those who have been abandoned, for those who had to change, great phrases, which one does not want everything. I still have Mr. Vice-Chancellor's statement in the ears that the families are a heart concern to him. Then why is Mr. Vice-Chancellor no longer here? Why is the Minister of the Family no longer here? We have heard a motto – or different motto – that the individual ministries want to do, which motto they have chosen, but we have not heard anything specific. What is particularly disturbing to me – and I know what I am talking about, because I too have been sitting on this government bank – is this disdain of Parliament. [[Call the SPÖ: I doubt that!]] When talking about a new government team and these are presented, you have the right to be here and listen – even those who speak after the television broadcast! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a confirmation to me that nothing will change, that there are some new faces, but that an old policy is being pursued: a policy of courage, a ceasefire. Perhaps it is enough for Mr. Vice-Chancellor that he has made Mr. Federal Chancellor happy and that Mr. Landesführer Pröll now also draws the threads within the black government team. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government reform at the ÖVP makes it visible that the ÖVP adopts itself as a bourgeois force that wants to shape. This party has no courage for concrete reforms – the Minister of Finance has already announced that there will be no major administrative reform. We have a standstill in the area of tax reform, pension reform, administration, health. There won't be much going on. Family policy – and this is particularly painful – is also on the storage track, although it is a heart concern of Mr. Vice-Chancellor. Especially the Catholic family association, which is not far from the ÖVP, said as a first reaction that it is “a fatal social policy signal to families” when the State Secretariat is dissolved. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Linder.]] One can be of a shared opinion on the quality of the former Secretary of State, but there has been a State Secretariat for families. Meanwhile, the Catholic family association has become a little more modest and has said that it expects at least “no further cuts of family funds. ” The fact that this distrust is particularly appropriate to the family policy mark EIA shows the blamed cuts and loads for families of around €400 million in the last budget. Let's think about the reduction of the 13th. Family aid, which will be felt in autumn – an ÖVP sugar. And we also need to remember that especially now, because of high inflation, the multi-child families have to save very much and are difficult to get over the rounds. Therefore, it is useless if the Lord Vice-Chancellor says that families are a heart concern to him – that is beautiful and good, but what does he do? I would have liked to tell the Minister of the Family that he should be careful not to leave this “heart love” as a place of business. I wouldn't be surprised because only a lot of announcements have been made from the Ministry of Family Affairs. Example one: Federal Youth Protection Act – please wait. I don't know how many working groups there are. Example two: Since 2008, a federal framework law has apparently been negotiated in the framework of youth welfare, i.e. a child and youth aid law. I am still hearing the words of the former Secretary of State, who said that we will have a legislative text in the summer of 2011. – Now it says again: Please wait! although the family is a heart attack. Third example, the family burden compensation. When will the reorganisation of the financial structure finally be implemented? When do you finally come up with new ideas, instead of just shortening benefits and saying that the deficit has now become a little less?- Oh, my God! – These are the things I expect. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] You too, Mrs. Justice Minister Karl, have many construction sites: not only to promote and regain confidence in justice, but above all to build sites in the family sector. I would have liked to hear from you what it looks like with the common care! I would have liked to hear from you about the improvements in the right of visit! How do we get on with that? How does it look with money for process support and for child support? How does it look with the necessary intensifications in criminal law? [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign again.]] All this has not happened. That's why I have to say: A journalist wrote in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” on this government transformation, that it was a “Cabinet of embarrassment”, the “Team is more emergency solution than a blow of liberation”. I have nothing to add to this, except that the Austrians deserved a better government.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15810	Mr Stadler spoke on business. I ask, in advance, in the sense of the Rules of Procedure: Do you intend to make a request? [[Abg. May. Stadler: A single sentence!]] - Please, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15845	Mr President. I request that the presence of the Vice-Chancellor in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15872	Mr Klubobmann's head spoke on business treatment. I give him the floor and recall § 59 of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15907	Mr President, thank you very much for remembering the Rules of Procedure. – Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is entirely legitimate to make a request, as Mr Stadler has now done. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: It's already an abuse!]] Only: The formal legitimacy is one, the sensibility, the sense of the Rules of Procedure, which, I believe, all of us understand uniformly, is the other. Mr Vice-Chancellor spoke in detail and presented his team. Now, according to an agreement, all the others, especially the new members of the government, are in line. Here, Mr Vice-Chancellor has no further speech according to the intended Rules of Procedure agreed between us. Therefore, I cannot see the meaning of your request at the best will – even if, of course, it is formally permissible.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e15966	There is no further word. Mr Mag. Stadler has submitted the application for business treatment, the National Council wants to comply with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure require the presence of the Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for European and International Affairs. There was no need for a debate on this. We shall therefore proceed to the vote immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join this request to be a sign of approval. [[Abg. Riepl: The booker is missing! And the stitch too!]] – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We continue in the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16012	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am proud of it and I am pleased that I am able to continue working for the Republic of Austria and for the Austrians in this new function, and can present me here for a moment today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Left alone by the party leader!]] I come from Carinthia, grew up in Carinthia, went to school in Tyrol, studied in Vienna and abroad and has been working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 30 years. I have two daughters, one studied at the WU, the second makes tomorrow Matura, also I am proud of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No partyobmann!]] I worked in various functions and positions in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of which 15 years abroad. For the last ten years, I have had the opportunity and the opportunity to work in a large cultural project that many of you might know: the Vienna Museum Quarter, which today is one of the world's largest cultural areas, where I have also gained my international experience and, as I believe, I could do a lot for Austrian culture. My tasks in this new role are to support and represent the Foreign Minister of the Republic in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in all departments and here in Parliament. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Today already the first time!]] Of course, Austrian foreign policy remains unchanged and remains reliable and predictable. The tasks and objectives of the Austrian foreign policy have also not changed with this government reform. Let me briefly mention the major areas: Of course, it is about bringing Austrian interests into the European Union. It is about promoting Austrian interests outside the European Union in the global context, particularly in the field of the economy, but also in other areas such as energy, climate, environment and so on. It is about further strengthening the profile of Austria to the United Nations, following what Austria has just begun during its membership of the Security Council on initiatives. There's still a lot to go on. It is also about maintaining and expanding Vienna as the seat of the United Nations and other international organizations, and making Vienna a hub for international dialogue. It is about the great area of international law: the development of international law, international law, the forthcoming Austrian candidate for a seat in the United Nations Human Rights Council and other candidates in the international field currently in place, OSCE, FAO, UNESCO; there are candidates in preparation, and so on. It is also about the large area of consular security and the field of civil service. Especially in these days, we are again experiencing situations abroad, which can be very threatening and dangerous for Austrian citizens. This is where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an important role, and our colleagues are doing an excellent job. I'm thinking about Libya, about developments there lately. And very up-to-date: Especially now, in Syria, 200 Austrian citizens may be threatened and we may need to support them. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is also about an area that is very close to me, the foreign culture policy, where the mediation of a modern, creative, contemporary Austrian image is required, namely – very important! – in line with the European objectives and guidelines for unity in diversity. It is also about the area of development cooperation, where a three-year programme should continue to be implemented, and it is efficient and in partnership with as many other institutions as possible, even in the light of the budgetary situation. [[Abg. Oil: Less 30 percent!]] I will carry out all these tasks on behalf of the Foreign Minister, in coordination with colleagues in the government and, of course, in cooperation with you, the Parliament. I am looking forward to working together, of course I will be speaking and replying to all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16100	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Muttons. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16121	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If I allow the first half of this time of government to happen, I can certainly say that, with regard to Austrian foreign and European policy, we can draw a positive conclusion to this joint work. In this sense, I also hope for a good cooperation with you, Mr State Secretary. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to mention in this context and in this respect also the very good work done by Austria during its membership of the UN Security Council. Austria has achieved a great deal, especially for the protection and rights of the civilian population in crisis regions. But not only at a global level can we show good work, but I would like to talk about a whole new success at regional level. I am a Carinthian like you, which is why I am also very happy about the successful agreement found in the local panel question. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who have prevented you for years!]] At this point, I would particularly like to thank the responsible State Secretary Josef Ostermayer and his team, who, with much endurance, empathy, negotiation skills and inability to deal with this conflict, which has slumbered over many decades. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank the representatives of the Carinthian Slovenians, the mayors and councillors and all those who have been supportive and accompanying to reach this compromise. This also includes my thanks to Federal Chancellor Faymann and Foreign Minister Spindelegger as well as to Federal President Heinz Fischer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Linder.]] – There are obviously people who are still not satisfied. I now hope that before the summer there will be legal and practical implementation of the agreement, here in Parliament and on the spot in Carinthia. Then: Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that the people in Carinthia are able to put this dispute out of the past final ad acta and concentrate entirely on the future, because that is important for the country. [[Abg. Petzner: All your mayors, the...!]] For the further development of our beautiful country with its enormous cultural wealth and its great diversity, the path has now been opened and a blockade has really been removed. The end of the dispute is, of course, not only a good result for the Carinthians, but also for the relations between Slovenia and Austria, this agreement is important and will have a positive impact. [[Abg. Petzner: Will you also be so committed to the German minority in Slovenia?]] Freed from the dispute over the town boards, both states should now step up their cooperation and cultural exchange and develop the potential of this Alpine-Adria region together. Ladies and gentlemen! The above-mentioned successes at global level are of course an incentive that Austria continues to work worldwide through its active and committed foreign policy on human rights, for the protection of the civilian population and for nuclear disarmament. In this area, we face major challenges in terms of conflicts and social change in North Africa and on the Arab Peninsula. Austria can support humanitarian aid actions or also offer its know-how to resolve conflicts and build democratic and rule-of-law structures. We can and must also support successful policies in the UN Security Council, for example to protect women, and also ensure that women can actively participate in political life in these North African regions. We must not lose sight of other important tasks, too, Mr State Secretary. You already mentioned it. I am thinking, for example, of all the important development cooperation for us. However, we also need to expand our action horizon and develop new cooperation opportunities, for example with regard to the so-called BRIC states, namely Brazil, Russia, India and China, which have become influential actors in world policy and the world economy. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] The planned trip of the Federal Chancellor to the People's Republic of China is an important and correct step in this regard. It is important to establish and develop social, economic and cultural contacts and, of course, to address the issue of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have successfully mastered the first half of the government period. We will also bring the second half to a good end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16242	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Schüssel. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16263	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is good that the former Minister for European and International Affairs Michael Spindelegger now also makes the Vice-Cancellor and the head of the party. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Too bad he's gone!]] This means upgrading for this key resort. It is one of the few states that are ultimately concerned with protecting Austrian citizens, but above all also with representing a voice from Austria in the world. The name change proposed by Ursula Plassnik is also a programme. There is actually no foreign policy in this sense, because many of the topics being dealt with here – whether it is the protection of Austrians abroad, whether it is the vote in the world, in the context of which the Security Council and the Human Rights Council have been mentioned, whether it is the protection of the European, our common currency, whether it is the good neighbourhood policy, the secure energy supply, climate protection, peacekeeping, peacekeeping – directly and directly within the country. That is why this ministry and its name are also a programme at the same time, and it is very, very interesting that Michael Spindelegger will contribute the overall coordination together with the chancellor, thereby also bringing these important issues into the government very strongly. For example, if the Nobel Peace Prizewinner Liu Xiaobo is still in custody in China today or if the artist's life is Ai Weiwei is threatened, at least he is not safe – you don't know exactly where he is now – then this mobilizes thousands and hundreds of thousands of people across Europe and around the world. If people are persecuted because of their religion, whether Christians, Muslims, Buddhists, Bahai or Jews, then this should not leave us indifferent in Europe. If hundreds of thousands in North Africa are demonstrating freedom and civil rights, risking their lives and security, then it is a call for us to do something, with know-how transfers, with investment aid, even with transfer services wherever it is justified and reasonable. That's an important point! The alternative would be hundreds of thousands of refugees who would otherwise burn to the so-called fortress Europe. In this context, the Ministry, led by Spindelegger, is an interesting and good choice to the new State Secretary Wolfgang Waldner. I say this quite openly: One who, like Wolfgang Waldner, has been a cultural institute in New York for ten or eleven years, where everything is really happening and where you have to prove yourself, in order to present one of the few areas where Austria is still the world’s peak – that is, the cultural and art work – and one that is able to offer a home for contemporary art in the museum quarters, and to fulfil an excellent management task, is highly qualified. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I wish you very much luck in this important post as an independent politician, but of course also as a helper to Michael Spindelegger. I think that an urban voice, a cultural voice, a European voice is very important today. If I listen to the woodcut arguments of the opponents of Europe or to the speechlessness of some who are actually audible to this project, but far too little in public, I wish myself a strong, strong voice. I think Wolfgang Waldner will do well.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16313	The next item is the speech by Mr Themessl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16334	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In short, without wanting to address people, what this government reform actually meant in my opinion: For me, it has meant nothing but to distract for 14 days or 3 weeks from what problems arise in our Republic every day and have become partly blatant in the last few weeks. Perhaps you can do this to Mr Bundeskanzler because he is not here at the moment, but he has a personal Secretary of State. I've said this more often: With all the German Chancellor's praise, he should finally stop doing so at least once, as if we were the best in Europe in Austria. Clearly, the Federal Chancellor is still confusing the EU with Europe, for I can call him two states that are much better in terms of the unemployment rate and indebtedness of the country, those are Switzerland and Norway. Everyone who has once attended school knows that they are also in Europe, but not in the EU. So he should finally stop with this lobbying, that we are the best in Europe, if that is not true at the back and in the front. Otherwise, he would have to be accused of constantly saying the untruth in order to avoid the word lie. [[Abg. Head: So there are two states in front of Austria!]] I now come to talk about the existing problems. There are also ministries that have not been affected by a change, and this applies, for example, to the Ministry for which I am particularly interested, namely the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Unfortunately, the Minister of Economic Affairs is no longer here either. But it also concerns the Minister of Labour who is present here. I have said again and again weeks ago that I think it is wrong that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour has been divided into two areas, because these are two topics that belong directly together. [[Abg. Riepl: That's right!]] There's a lot of things going on there. In addition, the Minister of Economic Affairs still receives the family section because his State Secretary has come to him and has been replaced by an Integration State Secretary or whatever, or by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So he still has to deal with this and has not yet been able to deal with his own issues in the field of economics. Now I would like to mention the problems of the last few weeks that have become blasphemous. We have a very high inflation rate. It is mainly due to the rise in prices throughout the energy sector and especially in petrol. We know that in the meantime, the petrol price has reached a level that is no longer portable for many citizens, especially for the commuters who rely on the car every day. The Minister of Economic Affairs only says that this is the free competition, but it obviously does not exist in Austria. That's what I'm gonna talk about. The Minister of Economic Affairs also says that this will be done by itself, because the price will then go down again. Remember: 14 days before Easter, the price of crude oil on the world market has fallen! What happened? – To Easter holidays the price was driven to the no longer going. The fact that there is no competition alone shows the fact that some of the Austrian motorways have to pay up to €1.70 for the litre of petrol. There is simply no competition, and the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs is obviously unable to make use of a regulation to intervene at last. The same applies to the energy sector as a whole. We know that e-control has been saying for years that there is no competition in Austria in this area. We have overpriced electricity prices. In the meantime, the gas price is also rising. All this burdenes the Austrian households – but we are so good! A million Austrians are at risk of poverty – but we are all going to be magnificent! And when you have to intervene, nothing happens. In addition, the opening of the labour market comes from 1. May. My colleague, Martin Strutz, has already mentioned this in part. The problem of this is constantly being played down quite consciously, and I do not understand that. Minister of Labour! You really are lucky, like the whole federal government, that you obviously always listen to the wrong experts. You have employed a number of experts who are paid by the Federal Government, and obviously only the experts who talk to you after the mouth – and that is basically wrong! They know that opening up the labour market poses massive problems for the Austrian labour market. Now I am coming to speak to the new Minister for Finance Fekter. – Do you know, Mrs Finanzminister, that if the wage level in Austria falls – and this is assumed to be due to this opening of the labour market – the purchasing power and domestic demand will no longer be right, and then you, as the Minister of Finance, will also be hard to do with your statement that major reforms are not necessary at the moment, you will take steps by step because the economic data would vote. But that economy, at the same time as the world economy, is not excluded from Austria, can change dramatically, the years 2008 and 2009 have proved. So I would expect a new federal government to work better than the previous one, and not on a regular basis by means of internal beanie, or whatever it may be called, to distract itself from the real problems of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16388	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16409	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear visitors! I hope that this was not meant by the representation of Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister that he would no longer be allowed to look in his place of business. I hope it was just this time and will not be so that you, as the State Secretary, now take over the overall representation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Spindelegger feeds on the “stereck”!]] Mr. State Secretary Waldner, you once defined your role in the MuseumsQuartier in such a way that you called yourself a housemaster. I can't judge your performance there. They were definitely a good courtmaster – we know and appreciate the MuseumsQuartierhof. How to create and define your role in the new function, we do not know yet. It will definitely be exciting. If you do it like a housemaster, then it would be interesting that you open the department once and open the ministry very far. At least in the Wiener Hausmeisterinnendebatte, it was said that housemasters should be such a thing as mediators and mediators. It remains to be hoped that you will be able to communicate again there too, because that is something I very much miss at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You've gotten in half-time. In your department it is actually more of a half-life, because in recent years the ministry has been brought down quite far, down as far as the budget is concerned, so massively that it is almost terrifying how contradictory the Minister has so far taken the cuts without actively acting against them. One area that is particularly dear to my heart, but which has not been the subject so far, and unfortunately is only worth a final sentence to you, is development cooperation. They've been cut down massively. We heard from the Council of Ministers yesterday that this will not be better in the next few years. I'm wondering, How is this going to continue and how do you intend to do serious, serious, serious development cooperation with so little budget in the future? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We, five Members, were now a delegation in Burkina Faso. There we have repeatedly faced the question of how serious we are still being taken seriously to what extent we are still serious partners. For example, we have considered a school project that should have been expanded in the next few years. It is a very, very good project, an informal school, in which students who come from the agricultural sector coming from farm families also learn agriculture in their native language. This project should have been expanded. The students asked us when they could and can learn other professions there, and it was also remembered that other schools were being built. Unfortunately, the economic crisis came in between and building materials prices have been increased. As not particularly serious partners, Austria had to say: We can't build the other two buildings because we don't have that much money. This is due to the fact that there are people living and trying to get through under very, very, very precarious conditions, quite cynical. Above all, it was quite embarrassing for Members who had to represent Austria there and look people in the eye to say: “Yes, unfortunately, we don’t have the money to build the other schools too.” That's quite disappointing, and I wonder why you don't do it the way the FPÖ is, and I'm more honest about it: We don't need it all. Let's turn it off. For what development cooperation at all? Mr State Secretary, you are facing great challenges. As it now feels, your party tends and shovs more to the right. Perhaps even in some cases Lower Austria is already considered as a foreign country when it comes to what is specified in the clock. At least the Austrians are much more open in terms of development cooperation. This also means again and again that there is much more investment, and this also shows people's willingness to donate, not only before Christmas, but also in the event of disasters. I therefore expect you to make it clear that we are not currently working in serious terms in terms of development cooperation, and that we are now really staying within the framework, or soon beyond the sole of the valley, as it was promised. As a woman's spokesperson, I would like to point out the following – although this has nothing to do with this particular topic now, it is important to me –: Of the 40 speakers who spoke to the new government today – guess! – how many women? – It was eight! There were eight women! By the way, none of your party! [[towards FPÖ]] Especially you who always work for free women! Obviously, their wives must not talk when it comes to prominent times. I find this remarkable, and perhaps you should think about when women are allowed to talk in your parties and when not. I'll try and hold that more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16462	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16483	Mr President. Dear government of joy in the land of eternal smile! We have experienced since 10.30 a.m. how much government members can rejoice about their new task, about the new responsibility, how they can hardly hide joy with anointing tones. The new Secretary of State for Integration is most pleased. ==References== He now has the most expensive study aid of the Republic of Austria with €15 000 – and that 14 times a year. By having his own income, which exceeds the 5 300 € limit, he can also apply for the approval of the study contribution. I brought him the form right away. This is also seen as injustice in our Austrian education system. Mr. State Secretary Kurz, it is not about age. If we in Austria profess to grant 16-year-olds the right to vote, it should be a matter of course that you also have a 24-year-old on the government bank or a 23-year-old in a high function of this country. It is only about the qualification. It deals with the essential question of integration and immigration, one of the most crucial issues in the run-up to the 1st century. May, where we will experience the flood of the Austrian labour market by workers from the Eastern Bloc, in fact, a decent integration policy, and this trusts you in the face of your political history, in which you yourself have surpassed the sausage semi-fuhrmann with your “geilomobil”, namely no one in this country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second great joy in the land of eternal smile: The Minister of Finance, who left the gibberies behind, as she said, and who, since her appointment as Minister of Finance, grinned and laughed, as if she were a well-washed Christian tree, is pleased that she has finally left the defeats of the Ministry of the Interior and that she can now continue as a patient servant of the European Union to transfer the money to Greece or elsewhere, and to the interests of taxpayers. The next one to rejoice: Ms Mikl- Leitner, Minister of the Interior. You still hear the pipe as a political tinnitus from the St. Pöltner country house, but you have finally become an interior minister. Her Excellency, the Federal Minister for the Interior, is also delighted. The Gagensprung as a state councillor on the government bank of the Federal Government is a high, your office now has 21 employees, you have an even more beautiful service car. You can only be happy. And Mr Spindelegger is also pleased. He's been so happy that he's finally vice chancellor now that he's been smearing. [[Abg. Kößl: This is unheard of what you give of yourself!]] He is glad that he finally got rid of Mr. Pröll for weeks in an intrigue, in a conservative intrigue. He has taken on the occasion of his illness in order to dispose of Mr Pröll with the help of Uncle Pröll, so that he is now finally Vice-Chancellor with his alliances from the ÖAAB and has his own State Secretary. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: A little bit of a level would be quite good!]] Now he no longer needs to go to the Human Rights Committee. We are already adjourning the Human Rights Committee for the third time, because the Foreign Minister does not want to come, and now he offers us to send the Secretary of State in June. He is now so mad that he has become Vice Chancellor, and this with the help of the uncle Pröll. The Federal Chancellor, who finally has a handful of government partners, is most pleased: the ÖVP, who has jumped as a lion and now takes place as a bedheader in front of the bed of Mr. Federal Chancellor. A Monchichi, a black, a fulfillment aid that the government partner has now received. The SPÖ has set up its ÖVP. You now have the government team you wanted. You can be happy. You now have the opportunity, for the first time since Bruno Kreisky, to start a single government with today. They are historically already the chancellor of the social-democratic single government with the support of the remaining remains of the ÖVP. Mr Haberzettl – who is now, I believe, not there – is delighted at all that he celebrates, because he finally got rid of his arch enemy Lopatka. Also with the help of Mr Spindelegger. The father Spindelegger, ÖBB-pensionist, has bought the son Spindelegger: The Lopatka no longer fits into the concept, which attacks us too much on the ÖBB, who represents Christian-social values like performance, who finally wants to smoke out this mast operation ÖBB. He doesn't fit in anymore! He's being pushed off. This may now take place in the fourth row at the Boulevard of broken Dreams of the ÖVP members in the plenary session of the National Council. He was made mouth-dead and is now allowed to watch ÖVP and SPÖ deliver: The SPÖ is no longer attacking Skylink and HYPO Lower Austria, and in return the ÖVP will preserve the ÖBB. But those who do not rejoice, ladies and gentlemen – we are outside the speaking time of television, Mr President – are the ÖVP club: [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign]] Mr Grillitsch, the Federal Farmers' Association, is disassembling the Styrian People's Party a political castrate without influence. Those who don't rejoice are the ÖVP delegates. One can see in the painfully distorted faces of a vice chancellor Molterer, who still had the propensity to sit here until the end of the debate in his government statement. [[Abg. May. Molterer: In this speech you can only suffer!]] One looks at the distress and misery in the faces of ÖVP officials who need to explain this chaos on the government bank in the future to their own members. Whoever does not rejoice is Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner. And above all, the Austrian population is not pleased, at the height of the economic crisis, at the height of unemployment, two weeks before the 1st century. May, once again a non-actionary government gets where heads have been exchanged, but the standstill and the injustice and chaos policy continue, tax policy continues, the increase in mineral oil tax fully affects, the burden on families in that country will unfold to high flowering. But most importantly, you're happy! 15 000 and 18 000 €, 20 employees per person, new service weights. In the case of Mr Spindelegger, he now has “A 2” on the van, as he finally has this “A 7”...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16572	Mr Grosz, come To the final sentence, please. There is a decision on the speaking time you have decided for yourself – that was unanimously – and you are already a bit about it. Let's see the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16587	Very much. – They are happy, the country is not happy. A major EIA politician once said: God protect Austria! I say today: Good night, Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16617	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16649	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government team! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grosz, the honourable Member, above all! Thank you many times for the sympathetic introduction. However, I do not want to comment on this, but above all to talk about the newly created State Secretariat. The Secretariat of State for Integration is something completely new in Austria, and it is also something completely new that a young person like me can assume responsibility in a government team. That's a lot of excitement. I also understand that this is polarizing. Many have also said in the morning: How's that going? How can a 24-year-old State Secretary be? I would like to ask you a counter-question, namely: How can we fight against your very frequent political intrusion among young people? I don't think there's a mystery solution. I haven't found the solution formula yet, but I know one thing: Whenever young people are involved, always when young people have the opportunity to talk when young people have the opportunity to cooperate, whether this is at federal, national or local level, then there is no longer any talk of political starkness among young people, then one no longer feels it, and then young people make their contribution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would therefore like to ask all of you to do something at the beginning. I think there are three major future issues that young people will have to solve that my generation and the younger generation will have to solve. This is, for the first time, the issue of education, which is the subject of demographic development, and that is the subject of integration. I would therefore ask you: Give the office, give the topic of integration – and give me a chance as a person! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Even before I was fishing, so far before I had the opportunity to even say a word, I was accused by the opposition of both a left-hand truck and a right-hand truck. [[Cheers and hustle and bustle.]] - I'm with you. – I also think it takes a back on integration, but it doesn’t need a left-hand truck or a right-hand truck, but it needs a back forward. I believe that it is necessary to deal with the issue of integration in Austria once and for all. I believe it is absolutely necessary, and therefore I am also very grateful for this newly created establishment and also for the clear division of tasks, that the words “Asyl”, “Refugees”, “Migration” and “Integration” are no longer thrown into a pot in Austria at last, but are dealt with separately in a matter of fact. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I also believe that there can be little gain in the area with distinctive sayings, with hitze and with mood making, as far as religion is concerned. I think it's a matter of contentious debate. I'm going to be the subject matter... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] – Electoral campaign is an election campaign, and now we are dealing with the subject matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I will be looking for a discussion with the experts in this area. The Interior Ministry is very well positioned with the Integration Department, with the Independent Expert Council, with the Integration Advisory Board. As soon as the afternoon, I will also be joining the Integration Advisory Board. I will give myself an overview of the matter, and I will address the matter with positive access. And last but not least: I do not think there is the world formula how to solve integration. It can only be a policy of small steps. But what there is – and I have – is a vision on this subject. My vision is that in 20, 30 years, when my generation is in the middle of life, no one in Austria, no matter where it comes from, will have to deny its origin, that on the other hand, we will also be able to ensure that all these people who have migration backgrounds are not only on the paper of Austrians but also in the heart of Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16746	The next speaker was Mrs Lueger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16768	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Designing integration means gaining diversity, on a basis that must be defined with a clear concept. However, the basics of this must be – I would like to say quite clearly here, because it has already been striking to me several times today that this has not been the case: human dignity, justice, the same framework conditions, respect and appreciation, solidarity with generations, ethnicity and, above all, religions and other forms of life. [[Abg. Kickl: Key Culture!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Key Culture!]] Austria is a country of diversity, and I am proud of it. Austria is a country of peaceful living together. There should be no room for racism and xenophobia here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But a guiding culture may still be! Or do we no longer need them?]] Common rules: We have to give them easy for everyday life. Yes to immigration, but only if there is a commitment to the recognition of the principles of democracy when pluralism, freedom of expression, equality between men and women are considered as fundamental values of society. This is also the basis on which social democracy works and governs. Language as a common basis – here I am exactly your opinion: We need the language as a common basis. Language before moving on to those who want to come here voluntarily and settle down, but also support when people are here in the country and need additional support. [[Abg. Kickl: You needed 25 years to realize that!]] The acquisition of language must be manageable and easily accessible, and this must not only be possible in any district, for example, Vienna. We need the support of all other ministries and, above all, financial support to ensure that this is possible in all countries, from kindergarten to pension. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The first non-school educational institution is the kindergarten. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's why we need a Turkish kindergarten in Vienna!]] Unfortunately, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Family Affairs is no longer here, but perhaps he can be executed: We certainly need the connection financing of the Article-15a agreement to further expand kindergartens in Austria. We need these very urgently, because the kindergartens make a very important contribution to integration that works, that language learning works, and that should be rewritten. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Is there also a need for Turkish kindergartens?]] But this also goes on to the school, where we are talking about the general school, where we are talking about vocational training, where we are talking about a training guarantee which is already available, but which is to be converted into a training requirement in the future. But it is also our task – and we have made a request in the Committee on the Interior – that there should be a faster nostrification and recognition of foreign academic titles, because the people who come here should work in the professions they have learned, because democracy is all the more permanent, the more fully their citizens are socially, economically and culturally integrated. These best-practice examples, which exist in all federal states – there are guidelines for integration – all belong together. My goal would still be that these best-practice examples not only remain examples but become standard. They are to become standard so that integration can be easily lived well. Integration is cross-referenced, we know. It is also a very multilayered matter for which there is no single solution. Therefore, it will be a great challenge to start a dialogue, a dialogue in which everyone can say what his opinion is, a dialogue where one must also show an attitude. It then sets out rules and also limits which all the people who have undertaken to live here will have to stick to. [[Abg. Kickl: The best integrated are those who also recognized this as bringing debt! They're best integrated!]] Our challenge will be – in a society that is constantly changing – to find out commons and to make life so tasty that there are the conditions to which it can be said: We are happy to be here in Austria, we are happy to live here and have our food point here. The new State Secretariat for Integration is certainly a first part of it, and of course I also offer my cooperation. The thing we never wanted is that it's located in the interior resort. Our objective, the objective of social democracy, will continue to be to create a separate integration unit with the agendas of all ministries, but also with financial resources.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16904	The next speaker was Mr Rädler. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e16925	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! First of all, I would ask the President of the Council to consider in the ‘Great Zägernitz’ whether it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to vote on the recovery of a minister when the official representative, the State Secretary, sits on the government bank. [[Abg. Kickl: What is an “official representation”?]] I'd ask you to find out if that's right. If not, then we would have to change the Rules of Procedure. First of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Spindelegger on the courage, endurance and new beginnings in the form that we raised this issue at government level with a State Secretariat for Integration and Migration. [[Abg. Kickl: He's back in St. Pölten up! Intrigrate!]] This includes a great deal of foresight to the future, for these are the questions that will move us in the next few years. Of course, terrifying, I find what has happened here today and what has happened in recent days at the level of the media. By the way, the time has come when someone has given a hundred days to work in his office and then to take stock of it. There goes the former young, now old or grown-up buberl party of Mr. Haider – you are a representative of it – and comes across a young State Secretary. [[in the direction of the Abg. Kickl]] On the other hand, it is obviously already the standard of writing about a “crazy” of society when a young person takes over an office in politics. [[Abg. Kickl: You didn't watch! That's not how it was said!]] We have all agreed here that you can vote from 16 years of age, and now we are excited that a young person – his generation will be the most concerned about the question of integration and not our generation – takes over an office and a responsibility for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Thanks to mass migration thanks to your bad policy!]] We are about to move in, Mr. Strache. It is our job to stand up for those here in this country – one and a half million people – who are Austrian citizens who have the right to engage with them, namely, that we respect and also create solutions for these citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Thanks to your irresponsible policy, mass immigration came!]] These people came to Austria in the 1970s for existential reasons from Turkey or as asylumists, as refugees from ex-Yugoslavia. They are citizens today who contribute financially to the construction of our state. We must help them with the problems they face today. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Do we need to integrate citizens now?]] This is social poverty in many areas. [[Abg. Street: We need to integrate citizens now!]] We have an unemployment rate of 10 percent for migrants. You can't cheat on that with your alien hatred. [[Abg. May. Stefan: These are domestics! Are these Austrians now or not?]] I am not aware that you are putting everything into a pot, whether it be foreign or asylum, whether integration, or migration. For you, all this is one thing, namely, alien hatred – and nothing else. [[Abg. Kickl: You have to decide whether this is a citizen or not!]] We should benefit from the offers made by the Austrian Federal Government under the National Action Plan, under the Integration Fund. We should also pass this on in the form of the kindergarten offensive, where we have said, for the five-year-olds we will first give the opportunity to learn German as an obligation. [[Abg. Kickl: That's a bearer's fault!]] That'll be the way it is. This is a necessity, something we need outside the communities, in the cities. You don't have an approach, you don't have any solution skills, like integration looks like. [[Abg. Strache: Where is the mandatory German preschool we have been demanding for years?]] Call me a community, a city where we have the recipe how integration could work! It's just populism for you. [[Abg. Strache: Where is this mandatory German preschool?]] To the fact that a young person has already been agreed upon in advance, I can only quote what the Blessed Captain Wallnöfer said at the time when ordering a member of the government, who was very young, said: The Andreas Hofer wasn't too young to be when they fed him.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17126	Mr. Dr. Rosary to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17147	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! The Federal Chancellor still gives us the honour of appreciating the House according to what Mr Vice-Chancellor currently no longer provides, although this was actually about his government team. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Rädler! First of all: Xenophobic hatred is not the case of FPÖ – it has been written to you once in the main book. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:No, no!]] Only because we are Austrian patriots do we follow the saying: Eight everyone's homeland, but love yours! – Hamerling said that sentence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: Bravo! That's it!]] I am not yet dealing with the converted government, but with one who always dares to make himself here and throw himself out of the protection of immunity with unflat against us. He's not sitting there right now. [[Abg. Strache: He's already sitting at the first sprayer!]] Mr Pilz, before you criminalise the FPÖ in any form, see how many criminal proceedings you have on the neck that have not yet been carried out – and that only because you have always been granted immunity. Shame! They are an immunity coward and immunity refugee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pilz, that is why you have a problem. You have to do one thing: You must see that you will become negotiable after your time as a parliamentarian. I think you're already working on it. [[Abg. Oils: Hey, hey! Say it!]] Your political Tourette syndrome, which you always let go of the liberals from this pult, has long been heading in the direction that you want to be unnegotiable for the time after your mandate in order to avoid just punishment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now to the government: Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, in his announcement, said that this coalition is now setting the common ground before the end of the separation. Let us perhaps start with the separator – subject of compulsory military service or similar –: The separator is placed on the side once. On the one hand, there is the EU-hearing in common – that is one thing. The other is the PPP model. This is not a Public Private Partnership, but the PPP of the great coalition – post office chess, party book economy and proporz. This is what you will be and what you will have to go through until the end of this period of government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The influence of the federal states and the alliances on the ÖVP has already been mentioned several times. As a result of the re-composition of this government, it is possible to say: Administrative reform and state reform ade! The interests of the powerful EIA national leaders are still unmistakable in this Federal Government. Minister Mikl-Leiter, I know your previous speeches. That was the first speech you did not begin to convey the greetings of the head of state. That was the first time. In this respect, you have changed the speech concept. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What have we heard from the ÖVP in the debate – Mr Kopf, Mr Donnerbauer –: Your Majesty's policy! The opposition dares to talk on topics in the television debate. That's something completely unheard of! The content must be extended so that it does not affect the population. The only thing allowed is that – with regard to agreements, please nice, you have to say one thing: [[Abg. Head: We just want you to stick to agreements, otherwise nothing at all!]] The Rules of Procedure shall be the absolute agreement which shall apply. We can shape every parliamentary debate within the framework of the Rules of Procedure as we wish. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have the opportunity, we have the opportunity, every single Member has these possibilities. [[Abg. Head: If that's your idea of speaking, yes!]] To Colleague Cap: He meant that the opposition was missing the big visions. One has to deal with questions such as: How can one get involved in Africa in order to solve the problems there? – However, the Austrian minimum pensioners and minimum pensioners will be interested in how much they need to get involved in ensuring that this is ensured. Finally, take note that Austrian politics is another! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the question of the State Secretary for Integration: The FPÖ does not in any way attack the age of the State Secretary. Young people have the chance to take over every function. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the following: From the previous statements by the Secretary of State, it was heard that he was not a young politician. He is of his own accord, from his promises in reality an archival politician of the ÖVP, only with a young face. But what he said to the minarettes yesterday – yes, no, maybe change or otherwise – is exactly what the ÖVP always distinguishes. The designed ÖVP Federal Party Minister Spindelegger says that he now needs a new person who may even have to inherit Mrs Marek, who is particularly “successful” on the road, in Vienna. – For this, the teaching staff of a State Secretariat at government costs is clearly expensive for us. We don't need that. Perhaps it has also been confused – because it concerns the Vienna FPÖ – to integrate with intrigues that this should now be learned in order to get back to the Vienna ÖVP. We certainly don't want to. But the probation samples you will be able and need to exist. In conclusion: Vice chancellor Spindelegger has had the motto: Don't rule, don't fight! – I welcome: Special standstill up to the next election pleas!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17328	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17349	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests at the gallery! The good news first: We finally have an integration state secretariat in Austria. This is a long-standing demand of the Green and Civil Society organisations. [[Abg. Kickl: That's where you have to put your ears!]] It is good that this State Secretariat was finally created – late, but still. The second good news is that the ÖVP has been saying since yesterday that Austria is an immigration country – see the interview with State Secretary Just yesterday in the “ZIB 2”. These are two positive developments that we welcome and support. Now, unfortunately, the bad news is coming. It says that the issue of integration, which has a lot to do with education, housing, anti-discrimination, equality, equal opportunities, the labour market, will remain in the police ministry. The second bad news is that the human rights issue asylum will continue to remain in the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Police. In our opinion, this is a very clear start for the new Secretary of State for Integration, as we are sorry. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, how would you like it?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Neo-State Secretary Kurz has spoken of several things. It is a little surprising that, after eleven years of hearing statements from his party, the ÖVP – which has been leading the Ministry of the Interior since 2000, and is thus also responsible for the topic of integration – can now be heard as follows: Well, there's no patent solution, and we don't know how to do it when it comes to integration. – I may remind you that you have been responsible for this issue for at least 11 years. The ÖVP is a party that has been in government for about 40 years or more. After all this time and after 45 years of work migration, make and say: Well, unfortunately, we don't know what to do, but we've created a State Secretariat now!, with permission, is a little too little. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In principle, I think it is good that Mr State Secretary would like to take a short look at young people. I think it is less good for him to say that it is only in 30 years that young bilingual people born and raised in this country should say: I am proud to be Austrian, but I do not deny my roots. Mr State Secretary, I do not know if you have any contact with these young people, but there are thousands of young people who are multilingual, who have been born and raised in this country, who are very well at their roots and yet at the same time say: I'm Austrian, I'm Austrian, and I'm proud of it. By the way, my wisdom is just an example. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As an Austrian with so-called migration background, I can tell you that we have a lot of potential – especially young people who are multilingual. I can tell you this as the mother of a two-and-a-half-year-old daughter who grows up bilingual. I can take you from my daughter's kindergarten in Ottakring, 16th century. District, report where about five languages are spoken. Would you guess what the common language of these children is? - Right guess, German. [[Call at the FPÖ:Na hopefully German!]] But these children also speak and understand Kurdish, Turkish, Serbian, Bosnian – and German anyway. I find it annoying that you have unfortunately forgotten multilingualism in all the statements you have made so far. I expect multilingualism to be your concern, too, and that you will act to really benefit and promote these many potentials that exist in our country. Last but not least: You asked for a fair chance. I see that just as you do. You deserve a fair chance, and this fair chance you get very quickly, namely already tomorrow. In fact, tomorrow the National Council will vote on a foreigner's and a legal package, which brings integration to an unattainable distance for many people who have been living here for years, paying their taxes, always complying with the laws. Citizenship is becoming much more difficult. People who have been living here for decades, but who fail in a German test, will never be able to get citizenship in the future. This is non-integration, which is exactly the opposite of integration. You cannot make and say that you want to live together, improve integration in our country, and not to report on this foreign injustice package. Take this opportunity, take advantage of this opportunity, and show us that you really want to be active for better living together, then you will have our support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17431	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17452	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr. Spindelegger – who is no longer there now, because he no longer considers it necessary to be here when the cameras are turned off – said the following sentence to the new Minister for Finance: Mrs. Fekter will be careful to deal with taxpayers' money. - Quote Spindelegger. [[Abg. Hornek: He's right!]] Madam Minister, I ask you to deal carefully with the citizens in this state who pay taxes! It's better if these people pay less taxes and have less taxes than if you're moving the money abroad – just like you used to move some foreigners – to stop holes there with hard-earned Austrian tax euros. Mrs Fekter, you said you should make proposals. I have a proposal: The drivers are being burdened very much at the moment. There is still 20 percent VAT on the mineral oil tax. Mrs. Minister, that means you're taxing a tax. I don't think that's fair. So you could lower the spray price and grab a little under the arms of the many pendlers. That's where you could go. I think it has been paid enough in this area. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Fekter, relieve the workers! Relieve employers! Work is expected to pay off in this state again. That's where you could go. You have enough to do. Now I am coming to the Minister for the Interior, who was previously addressed as the “Minister of Peasants”. Mrs. Innenminister, you said it's whiffing in your ministry. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Mr. Colleague, can you explain what that means?- Oh, my God!]] - I can tell you where this comes from. These are the executive officials who pipe out of the last hole because they are so allocated to work and administrative activities that they have little more time for their work and for protecting the citizens. That's where you can go. That is what I am giving you first, Minister Mikl-Leiter! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, that's clear anyway!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I don't think it meant that!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: But that's wrong!]] Newspaper reports have revealed or accused you that you would have given a somewhat clear election recommendation, as they say. Mr Mikl-Leiter, you are now also chairman of the Electoral Commission and the Electoral Authority. I'm a little concerned. You, Mrs. Minister, say that your model is your predecessor in the Lower Austrian state government, the deceased Mrs. Lese Prokop. Both of you were social politicians, Mrs Prokop was personally a very nice person, but I can also tell you that she did not have much idea of the internal policy required in the Ministry of the Interior. – I don’t wish you were. Ladies and gentlemen, the Kampusch case clearly shows which errors have been made and what has gone wrong. I do not want to be in this responsibility. That's where you can go, Mrs. Minister. I would rather not take Mrs Prokop as an example in this area. I would like to address the former Minister for the Interior. They concern you, Mrs. Inner Minister. I asked Mrs Fekter how many Czech-American asylum seekers live in Vorarlberg. Mrs. Fekter replied to me that it was 461 in federal care. How many of them are really in Vorarlberg, Fekter didn't know. I think it would be important for an interior minister to know where her asylum seekers are. She couldn't answer that. I know that only in Bregenz are over 1 400 Czech asylum seekers. Now to the Secretary of State for Integration: Mr Kurz, I haven't said anything about you yet. [[Abg. Wheeler: That's good!]] This is the first time, this is a premiere. I have looked at exactly how you act, what you explain and what you want to do. I saw the “Time in Picture 2” yesterday at 10 p.m. and would like to quote you briefly. You have made a beautiful presentation there of the sentences you have now prayed down in good spirits, which you have learned externally. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But then came a sentence that I missed today. They have said – literally –: “I have a healthy access to performance.” Mr. State Secretary Kurz, do you really take this personally? I don't think you're keeping it that way. Working Jus students make their Jus study in eight to ten semesters, all three sections. You have done 13 semesters behind you and two sections. If this is the current account of the ÖVP, then everyone should take a picture of it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to refer briefly to the Minister for Justice Dr. Karl, who really has a lot of work ahead. You have a lot of construction sites ahead of you, more than ASFINAG is currently on Austria's roads. Mrs. Minister, from the will affair in Vorarlberg to the east, this is going through. I can only recommend: Get in there! You'll get mail from me soon. Just one example: At the Landesgericht Salzburg there is a judge who has judged twice, and at the third time, when it became close to her, she suggested that she would be caught in that case – as if she had not known before. I think a lot of things are going wrong in the court. You have a lot of work ahead of you – like this entire federal government, which has to clean up a lot, which has gone extremely wrong in the last two and a half years.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17594	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Markowitz is speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17615	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! We have heard a lot about the new State Secretary in brief today. Personally, I am delighted that it has been possible for a young person to come to such a high office. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rädler: After all!]] [[Abg. Tamandl: Bravo!]] Yes, of course. We are not an “Old Men’s Club”, but want to look absolutely at the future. I'm not trying to open up the past, our Vienna election campaign, which we've run together – whatever. That you've driven a lobster through Vienna, which needs 30 liters of spray at 100 kilometers and says: “Black does good” – no one has done anything but you, what you have seen at the end of the election – does nothing about it. Have fun side-by-side: The area of integration is an important place that you now have, Secretary of State. I have always called for an integration officer because it is extremely important to take up the right points. I believe that integration is not necessarily a problem for young people who are learning German in school and kindergarten, but we have several problems. We have a problem on the labour market, and we have a problem with the older generation, if the father has come to Austria to work, the mother has been retiring and there is no way for her to learn German at all. The children, on the other hand, speak German among themselves. I must say, I was not amazed or shaken – it hardly shakes anything more if you're in politics longer, relax! – when I heard that you, Mr. Kurz, had almost made a tour through Vienna, visited houses and had a meeting with a family or with men and women from Iraq who belong to a Christian minority, and that you said you were so moved. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP]] My friend is also from Iraq, who belongs to a Christian minority, has been persecuted. She is now an Austrian and has a perfect integration behind her – the presidents also know her personally. I think she's someone who's also proud to be an Austrian. At this point we have to start – and that is Your job, and then I will judge you – because the main problem is that the people and immigrants who are now in Austria do not confess to the country that they do not confess to religion that they do not confess to the labour market. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] These are all the points I wanted to hear from you today. I do not condemn you because you are young – not at all, on the contrary, I even welcome that – but I will judge you for the benefits. That's what I do a hundred percent. That's what our club does. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I expect concepts and will also work with you, you can rely on them. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I'm waiting for constructive proposals on your part. Let's forget the past! Let's forget the study! Study She's been holding for 20 years – whatever! Now you have an office, this is about Austria. You have an important office to deal with the future. The integration resort is something I expect not only to say that you have problems on the playground or on the market, but it is really a future resort that I expect to see a lot of things happening here for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17702	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:01:55]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the Government Template (1074, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Telecommunications Act 2003 – TKG 2003 (1157 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1075, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Criminal Code 1975 and the Security Police Act (1124, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17739	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Fichtenbauer was the first to speak. I'll set the clock up to 3 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Three?]] – Ladies and gentlemen, it was your decision. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes if you want. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: Please! Please!]] - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17828	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear, esteemed remaining members on the government bank! High house! We had already had the opportunity – at the beginning of today's plenary session – to hold a debate on the subject of this item on the agenda, which, of course, did not lead to any more compact knowledge on the part of the parties, although the well-being of the non-knowers remains the constant task of not letting it fail to teach. [[Cheerfulness of Members' heads and reindeer.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: He was good! As a pedagogical principle...!]] – Mr. Principal Director, thank you! That's true, isn't it? Inputs: What is the point of talking about? Now I come to the serious part of the matter. I remember: What is the essence of fundamental and freedom rights? – Nothing else – but also no less – than the partial abandonment of the State of powerful access to the people who are subject to it or to those who are legally bound to it or who have been made available to it, in short: to those who live on its territory and otherwise remain. Thus, fundamental and freedom rights mean restriction of powerful possibilities, whether it be factual – for example, through police access – or legal mode through structured legal arrangements, which the state cannot do exactly. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Now it is probably true that it is not an insignificant measure of state art to choose exactly this measure, because, especially in legal matters, we are constantly in need of a balance between elements of security policy and, in the context of these security measures, not to be inappropriately affected by the freedom of the citizen. Regrettably, a small exception was added in the debates of the Committee on Justice, both by the debate speakers of the political groups, including the opposition, as well as by the experts involved, which were clear and unanimous: of five experts, four were of this opinion, that the telecommunications system in question and the storage of data in stock were unconstitutional. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] Supplementary to: This revision is justified by the need to implement Directive 2006/24/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is used as the basis for this legislative measure we reject. One of the experts – even the one nominated by the SPÖ – has made it clear that, in order to avoid the fearsome procedure of EU authorities against Austria, it was only the telecommunications law and not the criminal procedural law that would allow access to the data generated and stored without suspicion. In addition, I would also like to quote in the Committee on Justice the guiding principles of the First Senate of the German Federal Constitutional Court, which, for unconstitutional reasons, has abolished the rules in Germany, precisely on this matter, namely: “The collection and direct use of the data are only proportionate” – and I refer to my statements on the proportionality between legal order and possible intervention – “if they serve superiorly important functions of legal property protection. In the area of prosecution, this presupposes a suspicion of serious crime based on certain facts. For the purpose of protecting and fulfilling the tasks of the intelligence services, they may only be authorised for a specific risk to the body, life or freedom of a person, for the stock or security of the federal or state or for a common risk. “The same applies to criminal proceedings by law enforcement authorities. This very strict parameter, which the German Federal Constitutional Court has peeled out and illuminated, is completely lacking in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, don't come back to the formula you've dried up, it has nothing specific to propose the opposition! The concrete proposal from us is: Back to the start! Back to the debate of the Justice Committee! Take the opportunity to act in accordance with the undisputed content of fundamental and freedom rights and not to violate them! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17895	Mr Mag. Donnerbauer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e17916	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we can add to the debate in the morning. I would like to make it clear to us once again that this issue cannot be debated during the television period. What it was about is that you agreed to an agenda with agreement and nevertheless initiated an objection debate for very transparent reasons. Very briefly: What's this about? I can calm down my colleagues in Fichtenbauer: No, there is no flat-rate surveillance and no flat-rate suspicion against all citizens. We don't have such a suspicion. I don't know what world you live in. What we do with this law is to change the telecommunications law. Yes, that is the implementation of a directive. However, we implement this directive in such a way that it complies not only with Austrian law but also with fundamental and freedom rights, with the Austrian federal constitution. You can rely on that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you believe what you say?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Fichtenbauer and Kickl.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, here too I would like to clear up a rumor that is constantly being spread. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] No, it's not about content data. No content of e-mails, no content of telephones recorded and stored, but only common data, i.e. data identifying the subscriber – a telephone book, in short – and connection data – name, address, e-mail address, participant number – at a very specific time. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's enough!]] These are the data that are stored – no general monitoring of all content. Yes, we take very clear precautions with this law to prevent abuse. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Completely next door! Completely from the role! Justice spokesperson of the ÖVP!]] Until the law enters into force, a regulation will require the technical conditions and conditions which will definitely prevent abuse in the storage of these data. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Moser.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I stand for, and that is what my party stands for. Yes, we want to give the investigative and law enforcement authorities – i.e. the police, the prosecutor's office, the courts – and so on – data from telecommunications companies, the providers – the opportunity to solve crimes, to prevent crime. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's enough! You have the...!]] This is our intention, we want to ensure with this law – of course, with clear legal and legal conditions and under judicial supervision and control. No – this is also clear, because this has always been submitted to us in today’s debate and also in recent weeks – the Austrian People’s Party, the government parties do not stand for easy-to-use handling of fundamental rights, quite the contrary [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] We have not made this discussion easy, nor have we made the outcome easy. There were long discussions, many objections and opinions were taken into account, and ultimately a regulation was created that respects the fundamental right to private life and data protection, and on the other hand – and this, please, one must say – fundamental rights – there are also these rights! – helps people in Austria to be safe, to fight crime effectively, to protect victims. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why do everyone besides you say something else? Why do all the constitutional experts say something else?]] [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] It is a balanced and appropriate solution that we are creating today. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we are very much in favour of this law today – with the amendment that I have just tabled, with some final measures, some motions for resolutions, with an initiative that we want to prevent the illegal publication – and we can give you the heart to give your assent to this balanced regulation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I can recommend you with a calm conscience: Voices You agree to this law today! It's a balanced solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18116	The amendment which has just been tabled has been properly submitted, is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18213	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18234	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Donnerbauer, you have said here today that the storage of data is not a preventive monitoring; not all citizens are monitored without suspicion. – That’s just wrong! Stock data storage is a preventive monitoring. It monitors every citizen using mobile phones and the Internet in terms of usage data. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] I'll explain to you why this is a preventive surveillance. Let's take a different example! Take as an example – this has nothing to do with this here – the listening of a phone! If the rule of law is correct, a telephone can be heard in Austria if there is a specific suspicion and judicial It is approved. This is not preventive, but due to judicial approval, because there is a concrete suspicion. The Internet data and mobile phone data are stored without any suspicion. Only because you're calling and sending e-mails, there's a storage. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - Not stopped! – This data can be accessed later. In the logic of data storage, that was when the phone was stopped: Every phone is heard, and later, if there is a specific suspicion, one can retrieve the stored conversations. That is the logic of data storage that would be a preventive monitoring by means of a hearing! [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This is the difference in the classification, therefore it is a preventive monitoring, and this preventive monitoring is an intervention into the right to private life, Article 8 ECRK. The only thing that can be blamed on citizens in connection with stock data is that they use mobile phones and the Internet. Otherwise, there is no concrete suspicion and no concrete accusation. And we think that's unbearable! I have already brought numerous examples. I do not assume that you – you remember my example of the morning – are in order that in the future, the mail will document every letter you send, that you will send a letter to whom you send the letter and when you send it. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's not a bad comparison! [[New call to the ÖVP.]] – If you have understood the data storage of stocks, then it is the right comparison because it is precisely about it! [[Congratulation with the Greens, representatives of the FPÖ and the Directorate-General Ing. Westenthaler.]] It is precisely about the fact that what would be saved in the example of the letters is happening at the e-mails. For the letters, it is so plastic that even an ÖVP delegate like you think it is completely absurd, when storing stock data you do not want to understand it. That's the problem! That is why we explain to you that you have no understanding of fundamental rights. The second point: Mr Donnerbauer made the bold statement in the morning that one needs to do so because one is the party of security and one could thus solve more crimes. – I told you already in the morning that this was anything but happening in Germany. I've been looking at the Internet and looking at the statistics. The following has happened: There was no data storage in 2007, the investigation rate in the event of serious crimes was 77.6 percent; it fell to 76.3 percent in 2009 – with data storage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer]] So we keep track of the development in Germany: The number of crimes has increased, and the investigation rate has fallen. Can now They say: He's serious crimes. – Let’s look at the Internet crimes! Enlightenment rate in 2008: 79.8 percent; 2009 – with data storage – fell to 75.9%. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] It is simply not true what is claimed here that this will increase the awareness rate and result in a safety gain. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No, no, no, There is no More security, there is a More monitoring, and there's a more risk of abuse. That's the truth! And you also know why: Those who have the data storage in the visual eye – organised crime, terrorists – know exactly how to protect themselves, and the protection is relatively simple. However, the citizens of this country remain in sight. A second claim by you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is always that we are doing only what we have always done. That's not true! They know that what is running under "supply data" could only be saved very limited. The Telekom providers were only allowed to store very limited data for conversion purposes. These were very certain data that they would have had to delete immediately. The first problem we had was that in this grey area, the deletion did not happen at the same time to provide this data to the police – thanks to an agreement. But that doesn't mean you could have saved the data already. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] The second point is that certain data was obviously stored without a legal basis. Location data – that means: Who was when and where with his cell phone? – should not have been stored for settlement purposes. So they were either not stored, then this is very probably a new quality of monitoring, or they were stored, and then it was illegal. [[Subsequent calls by the honourable Member Mag. Donner builder and wheeler.]] The same problem concerns the question when which e-mail was sent. For settlement purposes, you know, such data are not stored. Why? – Because e-mails are not billed individually! There is, in turn, a new quality of monitoring related to stock data. It's just wrong if you say: It does not change, we only create a new legal framework because there is a directive! - No! They extend the rights in the context of data storage. The directive is also very limited for this project. You know that the directive is being implemented in excess. I'm just saying the word “heavy crimes from a year on. ” They know that the stock records may be stored from one year's penalty in the case of deliberate crimes. The directive speaks of serious crimes. Nor is the directive intended to require partial judicial approval. It is true that you are now trying to ensure a clarification with an amendment proposal, but this only has a very limited effect, and if you are talking about a four-eye principle as a new form of increased legal protection, then I am not going too far, because that two prosecutors are looking at it, is not what I understand under legal protection. Two thoughts at the end: Why would the referral to the judicial committee be more than appropriate? – This law has not been reviewed! There has once been a draft – and the woman minister can explain the story even more precisely – that was an order from her ministry to the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute to ensure that the directive is implemented. At the time, the task was to implement it in accordance with fundamental law. The Boltzmann Institute said that it was not in conformity with fundamental rights, but they would make an effort. Then there was a draft that went into review. However, this draft has never been implemented. The exact opposite has then been entered in a further application in the Criminal Code and in the Security Police Act by the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. These are exactly the points that we are discussing and criticizing today! These have never been reviewed, for they could not have - as in the hearing - corresponded to all the expert criticisms. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to call for a nameable vote today, for a very simple reason: We want to have documented which Members are worth the fundamental rights in this Republic and which are not. I say it quite honestly: Of course, I am particularly interested in the Social Democratic Party. Why? – The SPÖ has become increasingly critical in the discussion phase, and the more difficult it is when you crash today! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18457	Mr Dr. Jarolim is now speaking. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18479	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that all that we are discussing and deciding here today must be distinguished very well between the presentation we had in the Committee on Justice and the version available today. I would really ask, in the sense of objectiveing the debate, to look at and assess the results in their entirety, namely, with the amendments that are here today. Clearly, it is a walk along the border of fundamental rights. That was always known to us. It has also been a gratification in the preparation of the EU directive. In principle, of course, the EU directive could have been changed, which Otto Pendlund also pointed out on various occasions at Jacky Maier. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It will also be changed!]] But it has unfortunately not been so God. This is also the reason why I believe that we – also as a small country – should be able to bring us much more into all European discussions, where directives, regulations and any legal acts are concerned. At that time – of course, as the principle of unanimity played a role – the Minister Gastinger could certainly still improve some standard, so that we would have achieved better implementation here in the context of the fight against terrorism – which is really the reason. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] What's the subject now? The issue is that we had to implement the EU directive two years ago and that we simply cannot and simply cannot allow it to wait even longer for transposition. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sweden is waiting too!]] I already admit: The evaluation of the EU Directive has shown that there is a need for change. The need for change in itself – in other words, in which direction – has not been determined at the moment. This will be at some point in December and will then be incorporated into national legal changes, no question. Therefore, there is also a request from us today to ensure that, in the event of the amendment, the relevant legislative acts, proposals for adaptation to the legal system in force at that time, are presented. The survey of the experts – I give it to you without further ado – was, of course, one where the criticism points should be worked out. I think that our experts in particular cannot be prevented from showing something that is not a fact in any way. That is why we have also asked Professor Tretter to make his points. The changes that are being made here today are also changes that have been adapted to these accusations or to these criticisms. I can still say something to the prosecutors, that was one of the criticisms: A prosecutor can now, on his own initiative, request that common data be disclosed. This is a four-eye principle in the future, ladies and gentlemen. I can only say that the StPO reform – and it goes back to Minister Böhmdorfer – simply states that the prosecutor has a different function than in the past and that the judge no longer exists. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... immediately before that!]] So, in that respect, the prosecutor must also be treated as what he is under the laws; in addition, a four-eye principle applies to the written applications. That is, a prosecutor wants to see common data, not motion data. So it's about who this is with the phone, not where this one is. He can do this by writing a statement of reasons and giving it to another prosecutor – that is all comprehensible – and then he gets the insight. The greatest danger in all these things is always abuse. Thus, we have explicitly provided for criminal proceedings against the § 301 StGB, and if the abuse is not punishable, it will naturally take place. It will certainly take place much less in the future than in the past. We all know who authorised certain data, and I therefore think that this is an extremely good development. I have already referred to the fact that we really want to get involved in the European debate, including, of course, the further amendment of the EU directive. I believe that it is overall a proposal that is balanced, which cannot be welcomed at all – that is no question at all – which is moving at the border of violation of fundamental rights on the one hand and the identification of data on the other, but which, from my point of view, is quite balanced. The debate on this will certainly continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18557	Mr Ing. Westenthaler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18578	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is easy for no one to understand – Mr Jarolim and the other advocates, Mr Donnerbauer – that we should decide today, something that we know exactly that it is wrong first of all and secondly in an evaluation process and therefore does not hold. The responsible Commissioner for the EU – Mrs Justice Minister, the Minister for the Interior, they are your departments that are concerned, and you should really look at this, because I am sure you both haven't read what we decide today – has already publicly said that she will withdraw this regulation, as she is, and will come back in December. Therefore, I do not understand why we are forced here today to decide such nonsense – a data protection nonsense, Mr Maier; and I welcome the vote in its name and I am very excited how you will vote as the data protection chairman. It will also show how credible he is in this function, but we will see it. If Mr Jarolim now says that we have to decide today, I say: We don't have to do anything! It was your expert, Professor Tretter, who clearly explained not only in the hearing in the Committee, why we should not decide, but also expressly warned against deciding to do so now. Tretter said: If we wait for the development, no human beings crave it, whether we decide it or not! Sweden is waiting for it, and in the countries where the law already exists, it will be taken back. It is already very interesting if Mr. Donnerbauer says that everything is all right. I don't understand what you're saying as a judge! Maybe that's why you didn't make this last jump to the Ministry of Justice because you still believe that everything is okay. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] But if you do not believe it, Mrs. Justice Minister, Mrs. Innenminister, there has been an opinion on the Scientific Service of the German Bundestag for a few days now. My question: Do you know that? - If you don't know, I can read to you what's inside. It states that ‘no doubt there is no definition of this Directive that would ensure compatibility with the Charter of Fundamental Rights’. It has been shown that “the successes of data storage are kept in a very small frame.” As a result of the only ‘marginal’ improvement in the intelligence rate as a result of the storage of stocks, the opinion concludes: ‘At least there is not a balanced ratio here.’ Then these statements are explained for a long time in this opinion, and at the end of the day the Scientific Service of the German Bundestag recommends literally: The Federal Republic of Germany should work to ensure that this monitoring tool is banned across the EU. This is what the German Bundestag, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice – not the Peter Westenthaler or the Mr. Donnerbauer, who still believes that it is all right. The German Bundestag's Scientific Service advocates prohibiting storage of data – and we want to decide today! – This is absurd and completely insane, what happens today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and Greens, as well as FPÖ delegates.]] This opinion – after having been available in Germany for two years – also explains how the awareness ratio has improved as a result of this data storage. Do you know how high it rose? How much? – By 0.006 percent! This is the "great" success, Mr. Donnerbauer, in the fight against terrorism and organized crime! That's where the chickens laugh! If you now say that the German Bundestag is also wrong and that they too are wrong, I ask you to submit the evaluation report of the 18th century. April – fresh! – to read where the Commission itself finds – I quote literally –: "However, the Directive has not been transposed in a uniform manner, and the different legal situation in the Member States presents difficulties for telecommunications undertakings. Moreover,” – and now comes the crucial sentence, the EU Commission says that! – ‘In itself, the Directive does not guarantee that the data are stored, queryed and used in full compliance with the right to the protection of privacy and personal data’. The EU itself has insisted that abuse can be done, that it is unsustainable that this regulation should not be implemented, that it should be withdrawn – but we decide today! [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] It's a stairway! We are also ridiculous in the international world, ladies and gentlemen, if the EU itself is already withdrawing it! No one understands. Mrs. Minister – both of you sitting on the top of the government bank – you have the great opportunity, right at the beginning and at the start of your office, to prevent this decision from withdrawing with the non-decision if you are acting on your group... [[Call the ÖVP:Three ministers!]] Yeah, I'm talking but there's the problem, not there. [[The speaker points to the Federal Minister Dr. Karl and Mag. Mikl Leiner]] That's not the problem! [[The speaker points to Federal Minister Bures.]] [[Subsequent calls by the honourable Member Mag. Donner builder and wheeler.]] No, but that's where it's called, it's about calling me. There's the abuse, because it's about getting misused and the misuse of personal data against unloving people in the country. This is happening in these two ministries – and not in the Ministry of Transport! [[It was in favour of BZÖ as well as of representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] Come now So you and perhaps you are going to raise another motion for a resolution where you say: We know it doesn't hold, we know it's stupid, but we want to decide, and if you say, "all right," we can change that again in December! Do you know what's going on until December? There are already all the pioneers you don't like. That's the truth: That's happening! This is what you want: the surveillance state we reject! [[Abg. Rädler: Are you scared?]] We will therefore – and we will also warmly invite the other opposition parties, because we know that we have a common interest – bring a third complaint, a third complaint, a constitutional complaint in order to bring this monster down so that we can serve this country, ladies and gentlemen, very much. That will be a concern to us, this third complaint! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want this to fail – which has failed in Germany, has failed in all other countries and failed at EU level. And that's going to be decided today! That's really crazy. We will not allow this Stasi law to be won through here today – without any review, which is also striking. Wouldn't that bother you, Mr. Judge Donnerbauer? – No review, nothing! Ruck-zuck through, off. A little bit of a hearing was held, where everyone was against it anyway – but no review, no involvement of the Data Protection Council, Mr Maier! You had to defend yourself with press releases. I hope you're still there. But then come out here and explain that you will vote against this law today! Mrs Oberhauser, you too! I have respect for it, if you also make it clear in a committee that you do not feel well and that this is not all right, but then you stay with it and vote against it in the natural vote today! This would be good for citizens, and the citizens would experience it accordingly. I believe that it would be right to end this failed initiative to finally end this failed data storage of stocks and not allow anyone in the future – and Mr Steinhauser is right in that case; and he has already said this in the morning – to go to a suspicion, no matter which, without judicial approval, can be persecuted by getting his stock records. [[Abg. May. Hakl: That's not true!]] That's right! Check it out! That's it! We are the only country – with Italy – where, without judicial approval, only on mere suspicion, in any form of crime – not in a serious act, not in the case of terrorism, not in the case of organised crime, but in any form of crime and in the event of any abuse, we can access stock records. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Incorrect!]] That's what it says inside, and if you don't believe it, you haven't read it. Then Mrs. Hakl comes and says: Yes, we need this to fight the sexual offences! – That’s what’s going to be You say next. Of course we want to fight them, then we give them in. That was the proposal from the BZÖ: Let us make a catalogue of crimes and crimes – terrorists, organised crime, all sexual offences, yes, but then it's over – where, of course, stock data can be accessed if it serves the investigations. Only, you see Germany: 0.006 percent increase the education rate! So, whether it brings something, it's something else again. I can tell you: We from the BZÖ are committed to the rights of freedom of the citizens and are therefore invited and obliged to act vehemently against this insanity of law, which in truth makes the George Orwell smile mildly!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18770	The Federal Minister Bures is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18791	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The one thing that is very important to me and which I would like to predict is that fundamental rights such as the protection of privacy are human rights, and I therefore have no doubt that this is indivisible law. Therefore, the implementation of this EU Directive has always been a means of ensuring a genuine solution between anti-terrorism issues and the protection of privacy. This was the problem before which I, after two years ago, I became Minister of Transport, namely in a technical law, in the Telecommunications Act – which normally defines telephone lines and data – I faced fundamental legal issues. That was also the reason why I asked the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights to make a draft with me – in knowledge of the sensitivity of this issue. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I partly understand the emotion that lies in this debate and the question of whether we in Austria actually need to implement this directive. There are legal remedies when it is not necessary to implement a directive, but they are not for Austria, because the Austrian Federal Government, in 2005, agreed to this EU directive. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But not now!]] That is to say, I have had this examined once again, that not only has a infringement procedure against Austria been conducted, but Austria has also been sentenced by the European Court of Justice for non-implementation and infringement, and we are now in a warning procedure. I'm telling you quite honestly: I do not think we can account for the fact that in times like these, where we need to consolidate the public budget, we may have to transfer millions of euros from Austria to Brussels, just because we do not implement this directive. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The Kyoto goals are the same! You pay for the Kyoto targets!]] I think that's wrong. We are now implementing this EU directive, in the form of a minimum transposition and under the greatest protection, as has been said, fundamental rights and human rights. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This EU Directive has been adopted at European level against the background of the terrorist attack 9/11 in New York and the subsequent two bombings in Madrid and London under the title of terrorist protection. The Telecommunications Act is the framework, but there must be clarifications in the criminal procedure and in the Security Police Act. I was important – and that was also the requirement for the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights – that we ensure the most comprehensive protection of these fundamental rights, which are affected by them, and make the lowest possible intervention in the same area. The Telecommunications Act was under review twice. Since I always take reviews very seriously, we have added additional measures to the law due to findings from the review. To give an example: We have ensured that professional secrets, whether the judge, doctors, journalists, are subject to special protection against access. [[Abg. May. Stefan: How?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How do you want to ensure that?]] This was also a result of the review, and I think it is right that additional instruments, namely the four-eye principle, have been taken into account in the course of the parliamentary process – it has also been tabled an amendment – and that this has allowed for even more legal protection. Let me put it again to the implementation of the TKG, why I believe that this is actually a minimum transposition of this directive. This Directive provides that the data between 6 and 24 months, i.e. between half a year and 2 years, can be stored. – We decide for six months, so make the minimum implementation. This Guideline does not specify the extent of data storage. We handle this quite restrictively – it has already been addressed –: It is about connection and location data, not content of data. The serious crime was clearly defined with the threat of punishment of more than one year in prison. We have provided in our implementation that, in principle, there is access to data only after a judicial decision. For IP data, there are now also possibilities with the four-eye principle, but for mobile phone linkage data – because in the discussion almost already the impression that one would have access to data without a judicial decision – the basic principle is that these data queries should only take place after judicial decision. In addition, there is an obligation to provide information to those citizens whose data have been collected. There is transparency, there is an obligation for the providers to document these queries and also to inform those concerned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mrs Minister! The StPO is exactly the opposite!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: In the Security Police Act!]] There is also a strict control of the use of the data, namely the logging of these accesses. The information obligations, the remedies that everyone has, will result in preventing as far as possible the abuse of data here. This will also ensure control by the Data Protection Commission. There is an overfill in one point to which I also remember, and that is the point where it concerns the protection of body and life. There is the possibility to perform location definitions when someone is spilled in an avalanche or when a child or a teenager announces a suicide. I believe that this is in the interest of the population that there is an over-fulfilment in the point of life, of health. In this sense, I would like to thank my officials of the House for the TKG-Novelle, but above all at the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18902	Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18923	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Estimated Members! I already know that this topic is very emotionalizing that this topic is very polarized, but let me take a brief look at it on the part of the police. They all know that data protection must not be used to protect the perpetrator. Why do I say this? Data protection must not be used to protect the perpetrator!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Because we all know that there are many criminal organizations that are on their way with high-motorized Porsches, while the police are on the road with low-motorized VWs, if I can say so salopp and high-end. We simply need instruments to be able to act here quickly, quickly. The population and, of course, you, every individual and every individual has the right to be in an emergency, to be helped, and of course everyone who is in a situation of emergency is also rightly interested in this right. And you all also know that computer crime is just rising, that more and more computers and internet are being used as a tool for criminals. In view of this, the police simply have to have a lot of instruments at hand in order to investigate perpetrators and also to prevent dangers. I believe that this draft law, which has been discussed intensively for many months, has been prepared by the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute, in which many experts have been mistakenly involved, takes into account the requirement profile of one of the modern police. Of course, it is important to us on the one hand that we meet the needs of the police, but, of course, it is just as important to us that the citizens do not become a "glass" people, that above all the rights of the citizens are respected. With this law, which provides that these data now have to be stored for six months, we are once again a step forward. I may be able to support this with some example like my colleague Bures, because it is becoming extremely visible on the basis of practical examples why we ultimately need this directive. Imagine a father offering his daughter for sex games in the chat. I would like to tell you that I do not want to see here as a mother or as an interior minister, but I would like to give the police instruments in order to be able to avert this danger from this girl. I think that's very important, and I think you can understand that if you're a mother or a father. We've got to get the police in. the appropriate instruments in order to be able to prevent such dangers as quickly as possible. Another example: A bomb threat or suicide is announced in an Internet forum. In order to prevent this, the police also need this data to be able to quickly clarify: Where are the authors, who is the author? in order not to lose time here and to be able to act quickly. So you see, on the basis of these examples, the needs that we ultimately have, and you can see from these examples how important it is for the police to come to this data. I would like to stress this once again, because today we have often been talking about intensification, in-depth monitoring: It's not about content, they're completely excluded here. It is in no way affected by the telecommunications secret, this does not matter at all here. We know very well if the telecommunications secret would be attacked here, then in all cases a decision by the judges would be necessary. Summary: I believe that all of us who sit here on the government bank are aware of the importance of this issue, but above all the sensitivity of this issue, and of course we also know that this issue is extremely polarizing in the population. But we have always said that the principle of legal protection is particularly important here, and this concept of legal protection has been taken into account in this law in two ways. If you obey the population, you will notice: People want safety, they want the security authority to be able to intervene in a timely, precise manner and to provide assistance and support here. Each of us has the feeling at the top of the scale of need to be sure that he will be helped if he is in an emergency or when it comes to clarifying crime. With this law, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, we preserve the rights of our citizens, that is, we do not make them “glass people”, and on the other hand, we give the police the tool that they eventually need. I say thank you very much. I mean, we can take all this into account with this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e18994	Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19015	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fichtenbauer has already pointed out the role and importance of fundamental and freedom rights, and I would also like to stress that, of course, the principle of the rule of law and the constant respect for fundamental rights are fundamental values of our society. Accordingly, citizens will also be able to communicate with each other in the future, as only in this way can the right to privacy, but also the willingness to discuss and participate in the public discourse be guaranteed. On the other hand, however, European law obliges us to implement the Data Storage Directive. Mr Westenthaler, neither the opinion of the Scientific Service of the Bundestag nor the report of the European Commission, dated 18 May, On April 1, 2011, this transposition obligation or the Directive shall be repealed. The Directive is applicable to European legislation and is to be transposed. The obligation to implement it would be up to the 15th century. ==References====External links== Because we did not comply with this order, there was also a infringement procedure before the European Court of Justice, the Austrian Court of Justice, with judgment of 29 March. ==References====External links== Mrs Bures has already pointed out that there is now a multimillion-height fine. And here I already find a contradiction when I think of the debate this morning. The opposition had to be heard, for example, that former Finance Minister Josef Pröll had carried so much money to Brussels. – Yes, but should we see how we pay a fine of several million euros?- Oh, my God! That's what we want to afford?- Oh, my God! Let's say it again. We must implement this European directive, which requires European law, and we must also ensure effective prosecution, because it is up to society to enforce the rule of law even in the use of modern means of communication. The Internet must not provide a legal space. Because one thing has to be clear to us: The rule of law also means protecting citizens from infringements by appropriate means and allowing the State to investigate crimes. This is for prosecution, but of course also for the protection of victims. It's about safety. It is about security, but also about the necessary balance and proportionality – a balance between the protection of privacy as the cornerstone of our democracy on the one hand and effective law enforcement as a prerequisite for greater security for citizens on the other. I am convinced that this package of laws has produced this necessary proportionality with fingertips and eye-sizes. However, I also take very seriously the concerns expressed about this package of legislation. Austria enters into new country with the implementation of this Directive on data storage. We have exactly missed out on the scope of the directive, discussed with numerous experts and finally found a good solution. Of course, special caution is always appropriate when handling personal data. For example, the four-eye principle is to be fully applied, so that an order can only be made if it is also approved by the head of the group or the respective head of the prosecutor's office. Another essential element of confidence in this instrument is the documentation, in which cases and under what conditions the prosecutor and the court have access to stock records. This process ensures a sensitive handling and the right to data protection. In this sense, I can invite you to decide on the package to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19066	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19088	Madam President. Ladies, ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This is how we have been since chen, months, years know to a really sensitive matter. I am quite annoyed by the double-bedness of today's debate when one praises the Boltzmann Institute draft in heaven. They did good work, the fundamental rights protection was a thousand percent realized. Only, a state has more tasks than just protecting fundamental rights, because it also has to ensure the protection of people from criminal offences. And we here in Parliament cannot make it as easy as Mrs Bundesminister or the Boltzmann Institute to look at just one side, but we are here called on to take into account and implement to a reasonable extent all parts of the medal. For this reason, this Boltzmann draft was completely unacceptable. He has eroded the following: any investigation by the police or the prosecutor's office, as it was possible in the past. We cannot shut our eyes to the fact that we had great success in investigating the fact that these data were not only stored now, but were already stored in the past and that the security police law had already made possible corresponding queries in the past. That saved life! You may not be particularly interested in this, but it is quite important to me. For this reason, first of all, I should like to make a motion for a resolution, one of the many who are being tabled today: [[Quoted print version removed]] The four-eye principle, which is implemented by both the operators and the prosecutors, as well as the police, is only a small node in a whole, very narrow safety network, which we have linked in intensive deliberations around this storage of data in recent weeks. I'll start once. On the one hand, each query is recorded absolutely complete and revision-proof. So there can be no subsequent fall of something in the rust review. Basically, a query of traffic data, all that is sensitive, IP data, motion profiles is possible even with a judge in the future. It can't be without a judge! There are very limited possibilities for prosecutors and police. The Procuratorate may, if they only make a request for parent data, i.e. the holder of a telephone connection, the holder of an IP address, in compliance with the four-eye principle. That's because she's not being provided with traffic data. If such a query has the result that an IP address has been assigned to many, it is to be considered unsuccessful. That would be disproportionate. This can no longer be used for further investigation. The police can only now and at the moment, if a current risk to the life or health of people by a criminal association is present and justified, even if the four-eye principle is respected. There's a new criminal record. Before the law enters into force, which will only enter into force in April next year, there will be the possibility of revisions at European level, without delay and before the entry into force of our law in Austria. With this absolutely narrow network, fundamental rights protection from my point of view is fully guaranteed. In this very narrow context, we must ensure that police and prosecutors can determine. Mr Westenthaler, you meant: Well then we'll make a catalog, which is serious crimes! – You have not bothered, but I have made the effort to find out from the criminal code all the crimes that have been committed with a more than one year criminal threat, and I tell you that such a catalogue does not fit for our legal system. An example: The withdrawal of freedom is threatened with less than a minimum penalty of one year. But then, if the act is associated with special torments, if it affects an unmistakable person, if it lasts longer than a month, the threat of punishment is higher. Should the police be told that it has to wait first and can't be determined before it turns out that the victim has really been tormented, or after a month of investigation? – Where are we? I guess it can't be. This is different in other European countries. Some have final Penalty Catalogues, there are no grounds for compensating or compensating. There is something that can be imagined, but with us this is not possible – I say, unfortunately. That is why we have incorporated other proportionate safety nets, double floors, so that abuse can be excluded from my view. In this sense, I would like to thank all the officials, ladies and gentlemen, who have been so intensive in dealing with this matter, which is really sensitive, that have come about every single word that has formulated the many amendments, initiatives and resolutions. I am convinced that we now have a law that is fair to all sides, and we must not be afraid of the state's miscarriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19181	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled is part of the debate. He was brought in properly. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19245	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19267	Thank you, Madam President. Dear women ministers! High house! I listened very closely to what Justice Minister Karl said in particular. We have to do this. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your previous speaker said that too!]] - She didn't even say we wanted to do this. I would be really interested to see why we sit here in Parliament and decide something without having the will to do it at all, but to do it after a mere necessity. This is the major issue, and this is also the basic problem here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have already debated this morning, among other things, that this is precisely the problem: that the European Union is going to give us something and that we now have to retrace and implement it. As we implement, this is, of course, our business, and a few things have to be clarified. First of all, the way in which this law came into being: without consideration, without the involvement of the Data Protection Council. A template has been drawn up and is then rolled back because it has become more and more clear that the fundamental rights have actually been violated. Over the past few months, amendments have been constantly tabled, and there are still resolutions today to close the last gaps a little. That is, the process is a disaster, the legibility of this law is almost impossible. Three laws have been presented – interconnected, with quotations to other laws. I tell you, no one of you who speaks here can properly understand these quotations. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Oh, yes!]] That is why all these amendments and committee statements have also become necessary, because no one has known each other and because, in reality, the fundamental rights violations have been so massive. An example: It always means that only in the event of serious crimes and only with judicial or prosecutor's order can be intervened. In reality, for example, according to § 53a Security Police Act, security authorities can also access – that is already limited – with quotation on § 16 para. 1 Security Police Act, i.e. in the event of a dangerous attack. [[Abg. May. Hakl: This has already been changed in committee! That's where you were, my colleague.]] There it is held to be “hazardous attack” shall be regarded as all crimes committed by purpose. All of this includes the Security Police Act; it can be accessed, there can be massive invocations. Further: The Federal Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany has not only criticized the implementation, but has definitely said: ‘A global and flat-rate monitoring in the form of a comprehensive collection of telecommunications connections, as represented by data storage, would be unconstitutional even for the defence of the greatest risks.’ I guess that's clear. We don't need to discuss around. The German Federal Constitutional Court held this as early as March 2010. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I will now give you an example of what can happen, namely: Query from IP addresses. What does that mean? – At the time when the IP address is requested, up to 60 000 users may be stored, at least 5 000 on average. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Change also introduced!]] What does that mean? – There are 5,000 names in the act. We know what happens to the files: They go to the media, and in the media a name of the 5,000 then seems to happen by chance, although the person concerned has nothing to do with it at all. It may be about child pornography or something quite unpleasant – and the name of an innocent person is on the list. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Read the amendment request!]] Then perhaps a news journalist or anyone else in this republic thinks it's funny: There's someone on the list, I'm just putting this in without a comment. – From such a situation you have to row out first, you only have to get out of there; you practically no longer succeed. It is precisely these things that represent the problem, which is why we are so massively opposed to it because it involves the fundamental rights of citizens. Of course, you can now discuss everything away and talk away, but it can happen to anyone. And we know exactly how media deal with people and, of course, also with politicians who have nothing to do with it at all, but happen to get into it somehow. Therefore: Please be careful! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Among the examples that have been brought today, is the word avalanche. – This could be clarified so far. There's no need for data storage six months back when someone's under an avalanche. That's really absurd. Tag Bomb threat. – If the person concerned performs an anonymization with a proxy and then perhaps several hundred or thousands are still on that IP address at the time, I wish you a lot of fun. Faith You really do, then you can find the one who sent the bomb threat so easily? All of these examples, which have been brought here, show that it really does not need to be presented. Tag Suicides. – Also this one has been able to help so far. You don't need to research back six months, but it's usually about one or three days, and that's all possible. That is to say, this law is far beyond the goal. Finally, I can quote a press release from today: "The current draft for the revision of criminal procedure and security police law goes far beyond the already very worrying EU directive. This has nothing more to do with crime control. This is a massive intervention in fundamental rights to respect for private and family life as well as data protection. This means that all barriers to the citizen’s adjudication fall.” One already notices “citizens” where that comes from. And on top of that: “For such horrors, people rightly have no understanding. Vienna is at least here on the side of the citizens.” City councillor Frauenberger from SPÖ Vienna, whom I quote here, therefore appeals “to the two neo-ministers Karl and Mikl- Leitner to pull the emergency brake now in the interest of the citizens”.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19388	Mr Pendl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19420	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! Of course, Mrs Hakl, it was clear from the very first second that this is a very sensitive area, but I would have expected, ladies and gentlemen, that anyone would also look at the content of the amendment tabled by Mr Donnerbauer and Mr Jarolim. [[Abg. New builder: Mrs Frauenberger, for example!]] What you have just quoted, Mr Stefan, is no longer possible after this amendment. By the way, I myself have criticized that. I myself have criticized a lot. I wanted to get to know a four-eye principle at common data. Please, let us be at least as objective and distinguish between traffic data and common data! Sometimes I have the impression that everything is deliberately mixed, then nobody knows, the public at all. I am convinced that one or the other plays this game deliberately in order to deliberately create a certain mood. In any case, we have taken this issue very seriously. I would also like to thank Mrs Bures very much for this. Of course, the TKG was in review, but the TKG alone, without measures in the Security Police Act and in the Criminal Procedure Order, does not bring anything, will confirm every professional and every scientist. For two years we have been negotiating, discussing, up, down, before and back at all levels. We said at the last judicial committee meeting that we do not want to have one point open to anything. The problem with the IP data has been excluded with an amendment request. The question of the four-eye principle at the prosecutor's office is settled. Four-eye principle with the police – done. That's what we wanted to change. We have invited to talk about all of this, we have negotiated with the departments, with the ministers. I believe that if one is unable today to recognize or want to recognize the difference between traffic data where a judge is responsible, and common data where two prosecutors or two police officers will be responsible in the future, then this is certainly another quality of discussion, but then one should say that too. I urgently ask, especially when it comes to such highly sensitive areas, to really try to discuss this objectively and to find a solution. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! After two years, with a lot of delay, with a lot of hysteria – even though I am one who says we have to be careful when it comes to fundamental rights – we also need to have a clear look at the fact that we do not block ourselves in an important work. I believe that such a high proportion of legal protection, as now provided for in this legislative matter, is rare. That is why, I believe, one can agree with good conscience. – Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, for their work.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19478	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19582	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19603	Ladies and gentlemen! If there is no unsuspecting and unbeatable Members who can be led to the Committee's nostrils by the Committee and then, as a vote, support an organized attack on fundamental rights and constitution, we are unfortunately in the Austrian National Council and under the rule of SPÖ and ÖVP. I'm reading to you something I just got. The legal opinion of the German Bundestag was sent to me 5 minutes ago. This legal opinion of the German Bundestag clearly determines the constitutional illegality and the fundamental illegality. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Westenthaler, I have now made a brief effort to read this a little more precisely, because I think these are a few important points. It is very unfortunate that only the opposition representatives have been seriously concerned about this issue and have not found anyone from the government parties who is dealing with this fundamentally extremely delicate and very serious question on the ground of our Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: This is an understatement! We've been discussing for many hours!]] I quote: “So far, only marginally by 0.006 % improved awareness ratio has been improved by the storage of stock data...” – you have to imagine that once. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Delete due to 0.006 percent improved awareness rate It is the Austrian Constitution and the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. That's probably the last thing I've ever done! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] This legal opinion – which has already been discussed – concludes: ‘In line with the current state of discussion on Directive 2006/24/EC and the interpretation of the GRChr and the existing scope for transposition of the Member States, it is no doubt impossible to define the design of this Directive which would ensure compatibility with the GRCh.’ It's simple and just not! All those who vote in favour today deliberately break the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Austrian Federal Constitution. All those who agree today are deliberate constitutional breakers and constitutional breakers. This must be said in this clarity, even if now Klubobmann Dr. Cap looks at me very sad. But this is of course a reason to become quite thoughtful and a little sad, because this scandalous way of dealing with the Austrian federal constitution by the government parties is now really mocking every description. In part, the Minister of Transport has tried to prevent the worst; this has to be noted again and again. I always have the Let us give interim results of the negotiations between the three ministries, and that was very exciting. Minister of Justice and Minister of the Interior – I would like to know if they are on the policy of her predecessors, because then we have the worst to fear – wanted something quite different: They wanted not only the possibility of access to serious crimes, as the directive requires, but the possibility of access even in civil proceedings, on behalf of the music industry. It has been said that if any kids download something, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior would have been able to access the data of the mobile phones. These were the plans of two ministers of the ÖVP. Only through the resistance of officials and officials and telecom providers has it been possible to pull at least these most toxic teeth. I'm just calling an example. It's not about the serious crimes at all. The serious offenders are already under the protection of at least one government party if they have certain political links. An ÖVP party book is still the best insurance if you become most criminal in this republic, because you simply can't happen to anyone. That's what it looks like. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] It's about something completely different, and you know that. Think of an official who is suspected of having given an information to a member of the opposition or to a journalist! – It is a children’s game, based on the stock data, that it has stayed in a certain coffee house at a certain time. In Vienna, due to the narrowness of the radio cells, you can locate about one and a half to two meters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] This law allows you to check which phones were logged into this coffee shop at the same time. [[Abg. May. Hakl: But this is not a serious crime, it cannot be done!]] Mrs Hakl, this is not a serious crime, it is a serious ignorance of yours. This is also a sad crime, but fortunately not punishable, otherwise you would have lived. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's about something completely different. It's about you coming to figure out who gave the opposition's information. We have always found this out in the investigation committees, and now you want to be able to track down journalists and members of the opposition even better, now you want to get to the phones, now you want to store the data for half a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Mrs Verkehrsminister, you should not be so proud! Because you are so proud – and it makes me thinkful – and here you have explained that you have enforced that only location and connection data will be stored and all other data will not be stored, so only stock data, I ask you: Has there been plans to also save the content data? How do you imagine technically storing all content data over half a year at all? [[Abg. Rädler:... Awesome?]] Are there any considerations, and did this have to be negotiated out at all? And if it was your great success to negotiate total monitoring of content data, who wanted to renegotiate it? The Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice or who else? Ladies and gentlemen! Every reasonable, decent and constitutional person would have to vote with No today. However, I have the great and justified fear that there will again be an unreasonable, incompetent and anti-constitutional majority in this House today. [[Abg. Wheelers: your view!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19739	Mr. Dr. Pilz, we either had or I had to point out this to you more often after speeches – I'm going to do it again today: The flat-rate submission of criminal offences or the protection of criminals is not... [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Should I take the proof of truth?]] Mr Pilz, if you suspect a whole party here, not only suspect, but also subordinate it to it, I will give you an order. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Give me ten hours of speech, and I!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rädler: He's got a peril!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19808	Madam President. My Federal Ministers! High house! Many things have already been said in the debate this morning, also by me, so I would like to take a brief look at my remarks. If the EU Commission announces amendments to the Directive in an assessment report of a directive originating in 2006, namely the Data Storage Directive, the presentation of an amended Directive, then this is not quite an ordinary process. On the other hand, of course, the question arises: Can one now follow those voices that have also said today: Then we'll just wait and see what's happening, we won't do anything!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As in Sweden!]] The Commission is also quite clear about this, and I would like to quote it literally. In the same assessment report, the Commission says, among other things, about Austria that the Commission expects Member States that have not yet fully transposed the Directive to do so as soon as possible. Otherwise, the Commission reserves the right to exercise its powers under EU treaties. Mrs Minister, you have already said this indirectly: The Court of Justice has already found in the judgment against two Member States, Austria and Sweden, that they are in breach of EU law. That means that this is already valid, and the Commission can act on this basis: Punishment. The Commission is also following the situation in Austria closely. – So sloppy and fluffy to say: We don't care, we ignore, we don't put it into practice, it can't be. On the other hand, Mrs Hakl not only said a lot and everything right, but also pointed out, above all, that, anyway, there is about a year's lead time and that, with the date of entry into force - I think, in April next year - the theoretical possibility would be to allow amendments proposed by the Commission to be incorporated into national legislation before the date of entry into force. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Why don't we wait?]] Mr Stefan, your contribution to the debate was very interesting, just like Mrs Hakl did, but it is not that simple with this will and must and this evil European Union. [[Abg. May. Stefan: She said she had to!]] It was, if you want to, indirectly your Minister Karin Gastinger, who also represented this project in Brussels. That means we wanted it. And after we have wanted it together with other EU Member States, the directive has decided, we must implement it. That's the consequence of that. If Mr Pilz meant, among other things, German Bundestag and report: The German Bundestag has already implemented this directive for a long time – in many ways, as we mean, quite overwhelming and different from what is now planned in Austria. And the Federal Constitutional Court already repealed this law in March 2010 – that is, just over a year ago. So there's a very different situation. I think that the amendment has a positive response to some of the open questions regarding fundamental rights and civil rights, that some are being changed in a right direction. Whether we want it or not, it is now an internationally recognised means of combating terrorism, organised crime and money laundering. It will remain with this graze, which I have already mentioned this morning: [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It doesn't use anything, they have B-free phones!]] Citizens' rights versus means to fight terrorism and organised crime. I believe that what is now available can be decided, absolutely responsible, and I also believe it is necessary – not only in the matter, but also in view of our European obligations; and that is also a commitment – to decide on that. And then we are waiting to see what the Commission's proposals on this issue, which have been announced for the autumn, look like.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19887	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19909	Madam President. High house! Mr Bartenstein, I am not aware of an EU directive that would require Austria to remove the Charter of Fundamental Rights, remove citizens' rights, disregard the Constitution. It is only known to me – and this is also the much-quoted directive that Mr Gastinger has supported – that it is intended to store stock data to combat organised crime, to combat terrorism, and that is what we want from the BZÖ – to combat or resolve sexual offences. However, I am not aware of the need to use stock data for every offense. And that is precisely the core, because these proposals of the government are completely outright, because, if you read the text of the law, you can theoretically access all the crimes. It's a bad thing, too. It's the law dress that happened there. Minister Bures was right to say that she was still trying to intercept some things. If you read § 102b of the Telecommunications Act, you will find that there is a need to publish the stock data only on judicial order. However, there are other laws that are amended, namely the Security Police Act and the Criminal Procedure Code in two paragraphs, namely § 76 and § 135, and you only find the judicial order in the Criminal Procedure Order in § 135. That means: On stock data for the § 76a Criminal Procedure or Security Police Act, you can't access this law-enforcement at all. And that's what you want to decide? That's what I'm wondering. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To sum up, however, I see the Telecommunications Act as only aid to be targeted, as aid to the breach of the Constitution, because, as I have said, it is completely superfluous. They make eight million Austrians general suspects. The next step will then be likely to be the proposal from the ÖVP Security Party to lock up eight million Austrians, because then nothing can happen at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] – This is the policy that we certainly do not want. I have hoped that this renewed ÖVP – but apparently the profile has come to an end in the round renewal – will start here again and say: Getting away from this law, let's do it as the EU provides, then we'll save ourselves the penalty payments! – Let’s change what was meant and not completely overwhelming. But I also say it the other way round: I would still prefer to pay 15 million € rather than billions for EU Member States or billions for European bank rescues. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In addition to the Berlusconi laws in Italy, we now have a corresponding legislation in Austria, which is not subject to judicial control. Although they have the four-eye principle at § 76 with two prosecutors, the judicial control does not take place, quite the contrary, in the Security Police Act, each police officer without judges can essentially query the data. So a law that violates the Constitution, a law that has shortcomings in the obligation to provide information and also in the field of legal protection. And the announced ÖVP/SPÖ amendments to eliminate these Murks – we have looked at them – do not change it, that remains in the law. The law therefore remains bad. The opinion of the Bundestag has been addressed. I can only tell you that we received a lot of emails and letters from concerned citizens. The ISPA's address, the Internet service provider's representation of interests, may also be interesting, in which, in addition to the fundamental rights issues raised, the cost question is rightly explained. It is said that the cost of data storage will amount to up to 20 million. The statement of the Vienna state government – in keywords: serious concerns, highly critical, fundamental and freedom rights are being violated – cannot be swept away from the table either. And Mr Pilz has just quoted from Vienna what the SPÖ councillor there thinks about it. The chairman of the Maier Data Protection Council, who unfortunately has now come to an end because he will not vote – oh, there he sits; you will then vote, I am already excited about it – has pointed out. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: He's sitting out!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's not right, he's going out again!]] Put to the point: In the end, they spend money on all Austrians and save on the other hand on the families. We from the BZÖ therefore say no to this insanity decision, No to this stock data-spinning law.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e19996	Mr Mag. Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20017	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't talk about data protection or consumer protection again!]] The issue of data storage and its implementation will be discussed throughout Europe, which is very different – as the Commission's evaluation report has done. This report is partly contradictory, as can be seen from the example of the Czech Republic. Czech Republic itself, the Czech Government has considered the storage of data to be absolutely necessary and indispensable – to be read in the evaluation report – and shortly thereafter the Czech Constitutional Court has declared the implementation of this Directive annulled. High house! We will have to deal with this debate for months to come. In principle, it is a question of whether the storage of data of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights corresponds or not, and whether the measure, which is a suspect-independent, comprehensive storage of telecom data, is proportionate within the meaning of the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. I repeat and say this very clearly: This question can only be resolved by the European Court of Justice at the moment! There is currently a procedure pending and a judgment will be expected at the end of this year. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why we decide today!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Regrettably – and this is European law; I cannot give a lesson on European law, nor my colleague Westenthaler, but I am seeking to read a little – unfortunately the evaluation report – and this was presented by the Minister of Justice – does not eliminate the Austrian implementation obligation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You always believe you are the good data protector, but...!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Data protection failure!]] Of course, we can take the risk of not putting into practice, with the result that there will be penalty payments between € 10 million and € 20 million. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Data protection failure!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since 2001, the Austrian Data Protection Council has dealt with the issue of data storage, at a time when many of you seem to have never heard the word “storage data storage”. I am not aware of a press release by the critics, for example by Mr Westenthaler, from the years 2005/2006, in which this storage of data was combated. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh yes!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you know why? Because I wasn't in politics! That's the difference!]] Their argumentation is therefore absolutely transparent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Learn history once!]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! At the moment, however, it cannot be discussed that the Internet plays an increasing role as a means of action and crime. If law enforcement is to be made possible as a legitimate claim of society, one has to ask how this can work, with minimal fundamental rights intervention. The law enforcement authorities should therefore also be able to obtain knowledge from certain data on narrow, fundamental rights within narrow monitoring of all telecommunication movements. This was the statement of Peter Schaar, Federal Data Protection Officer, who pointed out that instead of a comprehensive suspiciously independent storage of data, a suspicious storage of data should be discussed. The same is done in the US against criminals, against organised crime. Therefore, we should also consider entering the High House, in the course of a novel, of a new directive at European level for a quick-freeze procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Why not?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why not today?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20196	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20217	Madam President. My esteemed ministers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Madam Minister of the Interior, yes, I'll give you the following: On the one hand, data protection must not become a perpetrator's protection, and on the other hand our police need applicable and reasonable laws. Only: The relevant government template for data storage is certainly not one of these suitable and applicable laws. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Not only because it hardly has an impact on the crime situation in security police, it seems worth mentioning – the effect is a statistically hardly perceptible value – but also – and many previous speakers have already said this – because there are massive constitutional concerns that oppose the introduction of these legal provisions, this storage of data. The facts are known, I can only mention them briefly: There was a devastating report from the Data Protection Council on Stock Data Storage. There was a hearing in the Justice Committee, in which the vast majority of experts voted against the introduction – they meant that there were serious interventions in Austrian fundamental rights. And there is a massive contradiction between these provisions on data storage and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, which has so far been completely unresolved and, as Mr Maier correctly said, can probably only be resolved in a procedure at EU level. However, you still do not know exactly when that will be. And yet you, colleagues from the SPÖ, and you, colleagues from the ÖVP, want to strike through these provisions in an act of immense EU patience. I think that's disproportionate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It also does not comply with the appropriate laws for the executive, Mrs. Federal Minister, required in your statement. On the contrary. I would even say that this storage of data by law takes our executive into political hostages, because it is forced by this law to do so – I rightly claim that our policemen reject it – to carry out political chiefship to the detriment of the population. I'm pretty sure: Our police continue to want to be friends and helpers and not enemies and leaders of the population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why I'm a police officer. This law is politically unacceptable, is constitutionally opposed and human, I would say – no, I do not say that now. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20283	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20305	Madam President. Estimated ministers on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we agree that our justice and police need modern investigation methods, and we need to give them the tools to do so. Similarly, the Internet must not remain a legal space. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not it anyway!]] And precisely the implementation of the EU Directive as regards data storage is an important instrument here, as I believe, an important instrument for combating child pornography, stalking and economic crime on the Internet. [[Abg. Oils: Go, please!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] However, it is out of dispute – and that we have also discussed intensively – that data protection in this context is a very sensitive issue, and we must do everything we can to prevent the abuse of stored data, for example through the above four-eye principle of the prosecutors or the merciless logging of the data. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I can do this the same way in the case of moments of suspicion!]] In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this whole debate, the words “general suspicion” or “glass man” have been heard over and over again. I think we have to consider this very carefully: What's more important to us: Data protection or human protection? And that's where you have to find out: The ridge is narrow between data protection and perpetrator protection. Even though my previous speakers have always been pleased to say that it would have contributed only 0.06 percent to the fact that more crimes have been prevented or resolved, I still tell you: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 0.006 percent! Three zeros!]] Every crime that could be prevented is one less, and that is important. It's just as it is in practice: If there is no house burning in the community, the council does not go here and say: Well, this is not a house burned down, so we don't need a fire brigade anymore! One year later, the consequences would be fatal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Olympians: (the hands beating down) Go, please!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's not even an eighth of it!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Always inject with water so it doesn't burn!]] I'm looking for you to agree to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20484	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20541	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20563	Madam President. High house! The last argument of the ÖVP speaks to the Firehouse, I believe, really for itself, because that shows that in the matter you really no longer have any arguments to go through a legislative text here, which is, in fact, an attack on the fundamental rights of the Austrians, on the freedom of the Austrians. You always wonder about the ÖVP and the SPÖ why you lose confidence in the Austrians and our population, why you get more out of the votes each time you choose. The answer to this is not difficult: You are again kneeling in front of the European Union today, saying: We have to decide! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yes, who says that we have to decide, gentlemen of the ÖVP? Sweden does not care, neither does the Czech Republic care, but once again you make a kneefall before the European Union, although the highest courts, although the Data Protection Council, although experts in other European countries, especially in Germany – today already quoted the relevant opinions – make it clear that there will be a change and that fundamental and freedom rights also have to stand on the interests of prosecution. Instead, with this new law, you will, in principle, suspect all Austrian citizens. Mrs Bundesminister, that would be like the state going here now, opening, copying, and keeping the post of citizens for half a year. Or? Would you be pleased if your private mail were opened, copied, and kept for half a year? In fact, they have not only the right to protect and defend Austrians in their privacy and privacy, but also, as a member of the government, they have the damn duty to do so. But with this law you actually walk exactly in the other direction: They thus enable the total surveillance and despotisation of unspoiled and free citizens! The citizen is thus totally controlled and totally stifled. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] And if you think that's just the simple citizens outside, which seem to you to be anyway, then I'd like to say to you: You too will be affected sooner or later, just as Members of this House have been here and as have been members of the government. In this context, I would like to refer briefly to a request I have made to the Minister for Justice and the Minister for the Interior. I asked a very simple question, namely that members of state governments in Austria were incarcerated and monitored. My question about this was – I quote –: ‘Has there been a project report from a public prosecutor in 2007 to 2011 with the objective of optical or technical surveillance measures...?’ And I mentioned the names: for the mayor of Vienna Michael Häupl, for the head of the state of the castle Hans Niessl, for Dr. Erwin Pröll and for others. In fact, if these high-ranking politicians did not listen, they would not have been stifled, the Minister of Justice would have been able to tell the Minister of the Interior quite simply: No, it didn't happen! Do you know the answer to my questions? – The Minister for the Interior wrote: “For reasons of confidentiality and data protection, a reply within the framework of the right of interconnection must be submitted in accordance with Art. 52 B-VG distance.’ And the Minister of Justice has said – I quote –: "The answer to this question is not possible to me because of the obligation to maintain the silence of office." Ask You've been to the Mister Pilz, as he has been! Or ask my colleague, Mr Westenthal, what happened to him! – The next day, after his cell phone's been heard, it was in the media. There was no mention of the silence of office. In other words, the reverse is close to: Not only the simple citizens, not only the national councillors, but also the government members are heard – from the Ministry of the Interior, from the executive, from the military intelligence service. Clarify this! Hide They are not behind the silence of office and behind the secret of office, but do what is necessary. The following are still to be concluded: It is really embarrassing that this federal government is saving families, science, education and at the same time investing 20 million in the persuasion of citizens, because it will cost so much to implement this new law. And I'll tell you one more thing today from the speaker's desk: It's just a door opener. There is a draft law in the assessment, the so-called electronic health acts, which is a particular concern of our Minister of Health. The next step is that health data and health records are stored electronically. And one thing I can tell you now: There are 41 destructive opinions on this draft law. I hope he will never be decided here in this House. You know what's in there? – That all the health data of the Austrian citizens are of higher interest automatically and that they should then be given the opportunity to separate themselves from this disciplining process in a so-called opt-out variant. So not only your mobile phone data and your Internet data you want, you also want to store and use your health data in the future. We from the liberals do not want to do that. We want to protect the citizens of Austria from such a nonsense of the EU. We will therefore not agree to this law! Finally, Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to ask you: Think again whether it would be useful to reject this law! I can tell you one thing: The other European states will not decide as they are now present. I mean, it would be really useful to agree to a referral back. That is why I call on you to go in again and put the interests of the Austrians before the interests of some bureaucrats in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20673	Mrs Bures has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20696	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In a short time, because this was quoted several times: The Scientific Service of the German Bundestag provides me with a clear regulation as regards the compatibility of the Directive on data storage of data with the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. I would therefore like to mention this briefly, because the debate has given some impression that this opinion would confirm that the EU Directive does not need to be implemented and is contrary to the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. Because that is not the case, I would also like to read out from this opinion two passages that clearly contradict this. This begins in the introduction by clearly stating that the Member States had to implement the Directive. According to this opinion of the German Bundestag and also according to the German Federal Constitutional Court, this is stated here: “The storage of the data is not of a kind from the outset. Paragraph 10 1 GG is incompatible, but the specific design is disproportionate, as no safety concerns have been taken into account or the uses have been limited.’ Both criticisms presented by the German Federal Constitutional Service for the implementation in Germany are taken into account in our implementation. There are clear rules for use and also the references. Finally, the Scientific Service of the German Bundestag - I quote again - states: "However, given that it is limited to data storage arrangements and, moreover, the really sensitive areas, such as access to and use of the data, left to the Member States, there is no obvious violation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Rather, it obliges Member States to implement the Directive in accordance with fundamental rights’. Therefore, my aim was to ensure maximum legal protection and the greatest possible protection of fundamental rights with the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20740	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20761	Madam President. Dear women ministers! High house! The importance of the issue of fundamental rights and rights of freedom, however important it is to see the fundamental rights of the state in relation to the rights of intervention, and how important the concern of the population is, show the many emails we have received from the people. In these e-mails, the population is concerned that this law would violate human rights, that this law would promote pressure of conformity and that this law would open the door to the abuse of the collected data. Many – and you have to say that quite openly – are not satisfied with the present draft law. In reality, however, this law cannot be considered separately from a European dimension. This does not mean that we are talking about the EU, but there are facts that cannot be ignored. The implementation of the EU Directive was initiated after a long discussion. Austria was sentenced to the European Court of Justice. And now there's a threat of fines, and these aren't cardboard stems. It is not enough if the criticism is presented – as in a press release by the FPÖ of 21. April –. the government is working in blind EU obedience, or if, as Mr Strutz has just done before, it is said that we would implement every EU nonsense. It's easy to hide everything. This is your view, but Austria is not an island of the Blessed, shielded from the whole world, on a wide ocean, without obligations. We have commitments – but you in turn create a deceptive and enlightened picture that you also convey to the population, Mr Stefan. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Is that good what we decide today, isn't it?]] And I can't spare the BZÖ the following accusation: At that time, approval of the Council of the European Union failed to obtain any judicial remedy from Austria. It is easy to talk out of responsibility now and leave this inheritance to us, the government and the government parties. We are now taking on this responsibility, it is not easy, but we have made changes, and you can't just drop them under the table. The four-eye principle has been introduced, and only access data from holders may be included in the orders. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, under the circumstances and also with the framework that we have heard in today's debate, this draft law is a compromise that we agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20801	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20822	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to remind you that, due to a commitment by a blue/oranged minister, Austria first came to the Bredouille today to decide on a measure based on... – I am not in any Bredouille at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The only one who came to Bredouille was you with your lobbying activity! Maybe it was the taller!]] I really have to tell you, my colleague, Westenthaler: You haven't made a statement on this today. And so clean yourself from what you've done to yourself is a rather terrific matter. Entry into force only with 1. ==References== Why? – Because we still expect possible changes at EU level to make it possible, even before the law enters into force, to make a novel that also meets European standards, assuming that the adaptation of these legal activities is more likely to take place in the direction of an example in the Austrian example, because I believe that this law, as we do today, is flawless in terms of data protection. We have tried very hard in recent weeks to make massive changes. One indication that you have not discussed these changes at all today is that you do not want to get involved in this discussion from your side because otherwise your line of reasoning would collapse. I think that this draft law is a reasonable solution, and that is why we will also agree with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20859	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20880	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated women Federal ministers! High house! The society is developing rapidly, especially by means of IT media, when you think about what is announced in private details in Facebook, how communication is communicated, how any private way can be understood through Google. But it is also rapidly changing the development in the area of crime, to an extent that we cannot imagine. Full security strategies in European countries must be aimed at dealing with this phenomenon. Many years ago call data collection and site verification were decided. In 1997, for example, Mr Ofner, in the context of the debate on the Raster Enforcement, said that modern crime cannot be combated with the more modern means offered. The former Members of the Partik-Pablé House also made massive efforts to do so at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Finally, in 2001, when FPÖ and BZÖ were still faithfully serving together, under Federal Minister Böhmdorfer with great approval, the Rasterfachung and the great Laussanfrage, which for me constitutes a much higher intervention in fundamental and freedom rights, were decided. At that time, you argued quite differently. That's why what you're saying, from my point of view, it's just polemics. After a strong and intense debate, I can say once again that, based on a decision taken a few years ago, the Telecommunications Act and the resulting criminal procedure and the Security Police Act are being amended. I'll give you the right, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there has been legitimate criticism in hearing, but this criticism has been taken seriously, as our amendments and motions for resolutions show. I should like to point out once again: a four-eye principle at the public prosecutor's office, a four-eye principle also in the Ministry of the Interior, the inclusion in criminal law in the event of unlawful disclosure and publication, a special principle of proportionality and, most importantly, the inclusion in the report on special investigation measures, i.e. also a very special parliamentary control instrument, which should be important to us. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Do you all have the same speakers?]] Mr Kogler, this is a request that we all make to each other. That is to say, these are all points that have been criticized in the hearing, but which have been taken up and solved because the fundamental rights issues are just as important to us. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are acting out of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, also taking account of the common European idea. We are committed to the cross-border fight against terrorism and organised crime.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20924	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20947	Mr President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Values for speakers! I think you have still not understood that criminalized gangs can very well escape all these aggression methods, namely simply: You buy a B-Free mobile phone, sign it up somewhere abroad, you have an internet address with anyone else or they're going to the Internet café at all. That's not where all your actions take – not at all! And if you tell me ten times in what way you're trying to tip a bit of blatant fundamental rights breaks in the Husch-Fusch process, you think I'm going to recognize your patch tests as a healing method, and I'm saying no, thank you! Mrs Bures, I also appreciate your differentiated approach. For years, they have really tried to disincentive the situation as much as possible through Boltzmann-Institute. However, it is not the design of the Boltzmann Institute. No, we just got extra tightening out of the resorts you have to answer now. And from your place of business, I dare to say, the next fundamental right bomb, namely the collection of flight data. [[in the direction of the Federal Ministers Dr. Karl and Mag. Mikl Leiner]] On 11/12. A Council meeting for Internal Affairs and Justice took place, and it was with the consent of Austria – I wonder why – that all flight data, including internal Europeans, should be stored for five years in the future. Today with this storage of mobile phone connection data is only the beginning, the erosion continues continuously. You and you are ultimately responsible for this. Where are we going? The glass man is a harmless story, is a harmless metaphor! Any freedom and fundamental right to personal, so to speak, unobserved way of life is systematically undermined. That is really not the case with the compensatory measures that you have mentioned in part. That's not true at all. The crime continues to flourish, the data are on the table. The storage of data in the Federal Republic has not helped; it has not helped anything in the Czech Republic. You haven't mentioned the costs yet. The 20 million have been mentioned briefly. But my previous speaker goes astray when he thinks that's what taxpayers pay for. No, every person who has a cell phone pays this in the future about their fees. That's the Clou. I'm being watched and registered without suspicion, and I'm allowed to pay for that. Where are we?- Oh, my God! That's really stupidity to the cubic! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would really like to argue, even in the sense of the world of expertise, as was the case in the Committee. But this is completely pointless, because here in the debate we have a grand mix of just too unprofitable ignorance or stupidity and, on the other hand, a perfide refinery in the undermine, undermine and break of fundamental rights. - We don't do that, no matter what. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Please, now it is enough!]] And the last word: The EU Directive is being revised. Why do you have to implement the old one that doesn't apply anymore? That's another stupidity to the cubic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e20991	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21012	Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to go into the debate unnecessarily now. I would only like to open up the opportunity, in a truly comrade, collegial way, of the Socialist Group, to let their top data protectors and fighters come here against the data storage of Jacky Maier's stock so that he too can take part in the national vote. He has announced this morning, he will vote in favour of data storage and will eventually continue to fight it at EU level. We all know that this will not be the case anyway. We talked a lot about propriety today. The big government, which is led from the left to the right, was talking about morality. But it would also be a sign of the state of affairs and morals, especially on the part of your group, that the person, Jacky Maier, who has argued with a great deal in the matter, is the chairman of the Austrian Data Protection Council, who - that is, the Data Protection Council - has expressed himself negatively to this constitutional breach in an expertise, at least now has the courage to come into this room and give his voice. [[It was in favour of FPÖ and BZÖ as well as representatives of the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we still have a little more than a minute for you not only to sit here comfortable, but maybe also to grab the phone and get the Jacky Maier to us. The cap – apologise for this shirt-sleeping term – telephoned by Mr. Klubobmann Cap. I suppose you've had him on the phone right now, and he'll come to us in the next 60 seconds. If he is lost, can one possibly help to bring him to this voting process, or do you tell us now, no, he will not come, no, he will not vote here? [[Abg. Strache: The city councillor Frauenberger has given an order!]] Maybe that's also a variant. We've got a short minute left. We could make a sort of schnitzel rally through the High House and see if someone finds the Jacky Maier and accompanies him here, because in all the conjurers of grace and morality that we have heard of you today, of the Social Democrats, of the ÖVP, I think, it would really be just a sign of morality, of opposition to this House, that the person who is the chairman of the Data Protection Council is here, in particular, with their voice, to the High House, i.e. the People's Office, telling how to vote here. [[It was in favour of FPÖ and BZÖ as well as representatives of the Greens.]] I see from the Social Democrats a few dance exercises in the last row. This was not the task, Mr President, in the last row. The task was to bring Jacky Maier here to us and to give the House the opportunity to see how the chairman of the Data Protection Council here judges more than sensitive issues in this constitutional matter. I take note that he's too cowardly. You're too cowardly to bring him here. The voters will provide you with the right answer to your behaviour next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21066	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We come to the votes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Data Protection Chairman is not here! Actually, he's ready for withdrawal, Mr. Maier!]] Firstly, we shall vote on the two motions for referral. The item on the agenda 2 is a referral request from the honourable Member, Mr Ing. Westenthaler vor. I shall immediately vote on the draft law on a federal law amending the Telecommunications Act in 2003, in 1157 of the supplements, to refer again to the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. There is also a referral request from Mr Ing. Mr Westenthaler on agenda item 3. [[Call: Where is the Maier]] I shall also vote on the draft law concerning a federal law amending the Rules of Criminal Procedure 1975 and the Security Police Act, in 1124 of the Supplements, to refer again to the Justice Committee. I am looking for a sign for those colleagues who stand up for it. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's proposals, which I shall make separately. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Telecommunications Act 2003 in 1157 of the Supplements. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request has been made by 20 Members, so let us proceed in this way. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House, bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used. Members are called upon to put the votes in the urns provided. I am looking for those Members who vote in favour of the draft federal law which amends the Telecommunications Act 2003 – TKG 2003 and the title and entry in 1157 of the Supplements, “Yes” voting paper, those who vote against throwing “No” voting paper into the urn. I now ask Mrs Lohfeyer, rapporteur, to start the call for name; Mrs Franz will replace them later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21148	The vote will end. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the votes, under the supervision of the experts. I'm interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21191	I will re-enter the interrupted session and seek to take up the seats as further votes will follow. I announce the results of the vote: Members cast: 171; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 104, ‘No’ votes 67. The draft federal law amending the Telecommunications Act 2003 is therefore adopted at second reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm. Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Garter, grassland, grave, green forest; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz; Singer, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21373	We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft, to a sign on this point. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Rules of Criminal Procedure 1975 and the Security Police Act in 1124 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues, the amendments to Art. 1, points 1, 3 and 12 and in Art. 2 point 6 has the content. I leave on the draft law, title and receipt, taking account of the amendment tabled by the honourable Member Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This desire is sufficiently supported, so we are doing so. I would ask those Members who are in favour of the draft federal law amending the Rules of Criminal Procedure 1975 and the Security Police Act, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by the honourable Member Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues vote, “Yes” vote – these are the grey ones – those who vote against, “No” vote-note – these are the pink voting-notes – to throw into the urn. The process is known. I ask Mrs Schreiber, honourable Member, to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Lohfeyer to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21445	The vote will end. I call on the staff to carry out the voting process under the supervision of the experts. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21483	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 169; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 103, No votes: 66. The draft federal law, which amends the Rules of Criminal Procedure 1975 and the Security Police Act, is therefore taking account of the amendment tabled by honourable Members Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, weeinger, worm. Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Garter, grassland, grave, green forest; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz; Singer, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21665	We shall now proceed to the vote at third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Kößl, Mr Koßl, Mr Koßl, on compliance with the '4-eye principle' in order to arrange data information under the Security Police Act. If you support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 155.) The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Jarolim, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Donnerbauer, colleagues on the evaluation report of the EU Commission on the Stocks Data Storage Directive. If you support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 156.) Debates of the European Parliament Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues on the evaluation of legislative measures to implement the Stock Data Storage Directive. Whoever supports this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 157.) [[17:36:03]] 4. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 1504/A by Mr Anton Heinzl, Dr Ferdinand Maier, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Rules of Procedure in 1960 (23. StVO-Novelle) (1135 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 708/A(E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on the rapid implementation of simpler and clearer rules for cycling as a contribution to greater road safety and climate-friendly transport (1136, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21760	We come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21787	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! What we are discussing here today is a little “novelling ” compared to what was originally discussed. The review was for a complete work – a lot of it very well, some of it was quite possible to discuss. It has been seen that the parties dealing with this work, the ministerial draft, are quite a bit “sudden” in the process, otherwise one would not have chosen the way to make a request from colleagues Heinzl and Maier from all the work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] This is usually only done if one can enforce a minimum of the originally intended and if there are still negotiations. And as we have seen in the Committee and in particular after that, the whole thing is not finished. My proposal would actually be in those times, what is already under consideration, namely the 24. Novelle to add and then to take the whole work into an entire cast and to have it decided and discussed here. Let's get to some points: For example, something that we find quite good at this point, that is the order of consideration, so to speak, a evasion of the principle of trust. If you compare road traffic in Europe with, for example, that in southern Europe or Latin America, you can see that you have opportunities there again and again, for example, where someone disregards priority, but nevertheless no or at least no serious accidents happen. That's where it's going and it's cool. If we do so with us in such a way that more caution and more consideration comes, then this is certainly a more safety on Austrian roads. In any case, we can only welcome that. However, what we would like to point out is that this leads to a deterioration in the insurance sector. There will be more partial debt and – well known to Vienna – there will be more hup signals. You have to see what that looks like in the country outside. Also positive is the reduction of the signpost forest and the second line especially for the two-wheelers, because they just have less crunch zone, and they need this to see better in the intersections. Well, it's still good that the bike roads have fallen out. The Wiener, especially the Wiener Grünen, may not find this to be so good: In the meantime, they also believe that they do not need any StVO for the cycling roads. – I think they need them, and I think it’s also good that they’re not inside. And with that, we come to the negative things: Let us come to the real point, which, according to the original proposal, should bring so much more safety, namely the issue of cycling. Cycling is good and healthy and therefore also to welcome, which I believe is lacking, especially in the cities – and it is becoming more and more: it is not only in Vienna so, it is also in Linz, Steyr and so on, it is in some cities like that – is the discipline of two-wheelers, the discipline of cyclists. This is under any criticism. A colleague told me only yesterday about an accident with a bicycle and a car, and there you shouldn't laugh: The car is damaged, the biker has no damage, but he has taken a driver's flight. And here you really have to think about how to make cyclists ding fast, for example through liability insurance or a notification. As far as the bicycle helmet is concerned, one is inconsistency. If I would like to propose today and regulate it by law that it should be completed until the end of the 12th. Year of life is a duty to wear a helmet, then from a medical point of view it is quite understandable. But what about children over 12 years old? What about the adults? Don't they need any protection? And what does it look like when a child goes to the playground, the parents say: Take the helmet!, the child puts the helmet on, but it has forgotten the whole thing again when you go back – and it happens an accident. How's the insurance? In our opinion, the law is inexcusable, and we will therefore also reject it in total, just as we will reject the Greens' motion for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21851	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21875	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Safety has the highest priority in all transport policy considerations. This applies to ships, rails, air transport as well as to road transport, and after two safety packages, which were mainly for drivers, this novel is also addressed to other road users and, above all, to cyclists. My predecessor, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, has already mentioned that the bike helmet requirement is particularly important for children under 12 years of age. Each year, 4,800 children and adolescents under 12 years of age experience an increasing trend. Even though many children and parents already have a voluntary helmet now, 900 serious head injuries per year could be avoided if all children were wearing a helmet. We see this law as a contribution to raising awareness, so there will be no penalties or sanctions against parents, even though the children are on the move without helmets. The co-indebtedness of parents in the event of an accident is also excluded from the law, and insurances cannot refuse compensation or payments if the child does not wear a helmet. This information, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. The helmet requirement is also a useful measure for the future safety and health of cyclists, because child-educated behavioural patterns will be maintained later. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The interaction of pedestrians – also mentioned by my previous speaker – is, cyclists, drivers et cetera in road traffic, and I like to admit that, not always easy. But it must apply: instead of each other. The commitment to constant caution and mutual consideration is an important signal in the sense of the “Vision Zero” and a long-standing desire also from cyclists. The same applies also to the newly introduced possibility of creating preferred two-wheeled lines for crossings. Every passenger, whether in the car or as a two-wheeler, is known how dangerous it is to find two-wheelers in the dead corner. With the advanced line two-wheelers are simply better visible at intersections. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The STVO-Novelle also contributed to the reduction of the signpost forest. With the creation of a common road sign for side-by-side protection routes and bicycle crossings, two road signs can be reduced to one in the future. In addition, the alternative possibility is created to mark stop and parking bans by markings on the roadside. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Many important steps have been taken at the beginning of the cycling season to increase road safety – and this is primarily the case – for cyclists. The central point is, as I have already said, the bicycle helmet requirement for children under 12 years of age. High house! I would like to thank Mrs. Federal Minister Doris Bures for her tireless commitment to increased safety on our streets. The past Easter weekend has, as we know, been with the lowest number of road deaths since The beginning of the records showed that Austria is on the right track with the measures put forward by Mrs Bures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21945	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e21966	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Yes, the correct characterization of the present text is precisely the right one and the right one. [[Abg. Heinzl: Go!]] Dear colleague Heinzl, you were unfortunately not a single time – please correct me if it is not right! – unfortunately, you were not at once in this advisory board, which was installed for the preparation of these road traffic regulations novelles in the sense of increased road safety. [[Abg. Heinzl: But in the hearing...!]] Not even once! I have spent two years in each meeting of the discussion and have tried to cooperate very constructively there. And just as you were not there, the ÖVP was also, the colleague Maier was not there once. Now, in a two-year trial under the umbrella of Mrs. Minister, we have put on a package that covered many things and was behind which all the experts, even the ÖAMTC. And then, at one time, so nonchalant and inconvenient, Mr. Maier passes into the cabinet of Mrs. Bures – I can imagine that vividly – and says: No, I wasn't there, it's open to me a lot of questions, I'm not for that! That's it. Two years of work for nothing the ÖVP actually wanted. I'm quoting that! They have adopted a “Master Plan Rad” in the Ministry of Life, and there is “climate: active mobile”: ‘Implementation measure: Revision of road traffic regulations and adaptation of directives and standards at the federal level.” – Read your own ministerial text, as it reads inside: At present, there is a novelle for cycling in review. To attract cycling, the following changes are desirable... – Ministry of Life, Berlakovich, ÖVP: Anchoration of the consideration bid, cross-border cycling against the entryway, withdrawal or flexibilisation of the cycle road use obligation. Simplification of the priority rules for cyclists according to German model, better adaptation of road signs to needs, simpler verifiable rules in road traffic regulations as well as clear consignees et cetera. Please, all this included the package, that 23. Road Traffic Regulations Novelle! Only: What remains is not just a torso, which remains, is partly just a humbug, because the wheel helmet requirement partially prevents cycling. It increases the take-up of the wheel helmet anyway, but the duty again leads some people to distance themselves from it again. You may have just forgotten the helmet, and that's why you're going to get back in the car. Studies by TU from Sweden prove absurdity; my colleague will do so in detail. The second Humbug is incredible! There is this area in front of the intersections, so the bikes can practically start in front of the cars. That was provided for in this advisory board. And overnight, under the influence of certain motorized bike lobbys, it was so suddenly that all motorized two-wheels can also use this zone for general start-up! What do you think that looks like at the intersections?- Oh, my God! – In the back are the cars, in the front are the bikers, and in the middle perhaps the cyclists, and then the cavalier starts go in the row! After pfiat di God, traffic safety!, I now say in Upper Austrian. That's why You may well understand that we are making a referral request, namely a request to refer this report back to the committee and this initiative proposal by Mr Maier and Mr Heinzl, for we should continue to work on the basis of the results of the experts. We need a general novel – I do not want to see it limited to cycling – and modernisation of the StVO, not just because of the climate protection strategy. There's the energy strategy, there's everything possible, but you're doing things where you really have to get to the head and you can only use the brainlessness of certain groups as an explanation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22035	Next speaker: Mr Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22057	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to sum up the discussion and conclude by saying: Mr Heinzl is absolutely right, and what he has said really needs to be underlined this time. I would also like to add, because the discussion has been about any committees or subcommittees: We held the discussion in committee, but Mrs Moser was not. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I was at the discussion for two years!]] – You should have been in the Special Committee, in the Transport Committee, there we discussed it, Dr. Moser. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Believe, I am sitting in every committee where you are everything...! I'm not masochistic!]] If you had been in the committee, Mrs. Moser, you would also have heard that, as far as the question of bicycle road is concerned, we should also have discussed the issue of the area of movement. There is the concept of the future – and we want to discuss it; at least we will bring it constructively into the discussion. Mrs. Dr. Moser, I'm inviting you today: Then come to us and we will talk about it, and we will make a joint request. That's what we're really doing. Mrs. Dr. Moser, you have also referred to this subcommittee, which also discussed the issue of the priority rules for cyclists. I have not yet noticed any of what you are proposing. So we should also discuss this. Therefore: Let's do this together! The issue of motion zone is an important issue for us – and everything else has so impressively described to my colleague Heinzl that I can only say: You can only join him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22130	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22151	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The change in road traffic regulations, as it is present here in this convoluted, has good points, less good points and a few “no-na destinations”, things that are partly an improvement, but do not really cry out for a must. I would now like to draw up a few points, which have already been mentioned here, that by changing the road traffic regulations of the so-called 'Schil'. the forest is to be curbed. This is indeed a positive measure, because there are streets where you no longer know yourself, such as in the Mariahilfer Straße in Vienna, where it is so that there are completely opposite signs and you no longer know yourself as a driver at all. So this change is an advantage. I think this is positive, we can support it. What we can also support is that future cyclists are allowed to drive on the road at a speed of up to 10 km/h. We know many dangerous situations where the cyclists simply shoot over the crossroads, the driver has to slow down, so there are really dangerous situations, both for the cyclist and for the driver. And now to the negative points. It has already been addressed here the wheel helmet requirement, after which children will have reached the end of the 12th. Year of life, which must be carried by bike or carry a bicycle helmet. Those who monitor a child on a bicycle or carry it on a bicycle or transport it in a bicycle trailer must ensure that the child wears a fall helmet. Now it comes – and I think that is a contradiction. In the event of a traffic accident, the non-carrying of the helmet shall not justify co-indebtedness according to ABGB. It is also clarified that a breach of the newly created helmet wearing obligation does not constitute an administrative violation. Therefore: If you are honest, you have to say that this law is neither fish nor meat. It is also not feasible – and it has no effect. It's about administrative stuff, paperwork that's being produced there. I think it would be more sensible to appeal to the reason of the parents or to the reason of the cyclists. That would be much more reasonable. And you don't always have to threaten with sanctions that don't take place either way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] According to Alec Hager, the chairman of the IG bicycle, there is no worldwide study showing the decline in head injury due to helmet wearing obligation. But the opposite is not the case. According to another study, one from Australia, where a helmet requirement for cyclists exists, it is so that since the bicycle helmet requirement, the proportion of bad cyclists has fallen by 50 percent. That, you have to say, is clearly speaking for a helmet duty. Finally, on a subject which I also noticed, namely when this wheel helmet was in the conversation. We all know that the ARBÖ, the red driver's preliminary organization, is a little in financial difficulties. The ARBÖ then offered a super package, even though it was first against a helmet obligation: a low-cost safety set of €9.90. So a skewer who thinks that this might also be a business-maker for certain preliminary organizations. We from the BZÖ will, in any case, reject this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22230	Mrs Bures has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22252	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In my capacity as a transport minister, I can propose another measure today through an initiative by the House, which will make a significant contribution to the fact that in the future there will be less suffering, less injured people and, hopefully, less injured children on Austria's roads. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We focused on the latest transport safety packages – in this context I would like to thank you very much for the good cooperation – on the motorized transport sector. We have defined the risk groups, i.e. Alko-Lenker and Raser, and we have made clearer and stricter legal provisions. We have also launched a consciousness campaign and worked closely with the executive, whereby we can say: All these packages that we've chained there are effective. The current accident statistics are on the table. Indeed, it has been shown that measures adopted by the House actually reduce the number of accidents on Austria's roads. In 2010, 81 people died less on Austrian roads, which is a 13 percent reduction. On average in recent years, this is about 5 percent, i.e. an almost three times as high decrease in people killed on Austrian roads. In those areas where we have set a priority, namely measures against Alko-Lenker, we have achieved even greater success in this combination: clear laws and cooperation with the executive. It's not a cavalier crime when you're driving alcoholic cars. The number of deaths caused by alcohol at the tax decreased by 28 percent in 2010. There has never been such a major decline since accident statistics existed. This is, as has already been said, the success of having more stringent laws and regulations that lead to more road safety on Austria's roads. I believe that it is also right that, in the course of the 2020 Transport Safety Programme, we should never stop being active in the area of road safety, namely: Transport safety for weaker road users. They're cyclists, they're pedestrians. But the very weakest on Austria's streets are, of course, the children. I believe that it is important to take action here, because while in road transport – I have already mentioned the figures – transport safety packages, we unfortunately do not have to announce positive reports in the area of cycling accidents with children. Since 2005, we have seen an increase of 3,700 to 4,800 children who had to be treated in a hospital after a wheel accident. This is not about falls by bike, but about really serious injuries, in the majority of head injuries of children who have been seriously crashed. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that, of course, I also worked closely with accident surgeons who then have to nurse these children, who know the consequences of the accident. If accident surgeons tell me that we have the chance to protect around 900 children every year from serious head injuries when they wear a helmet when cycling, then, I think, you don't need any more arguments why it's good and right that we introduce a bike helmet requirement for children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also true that, of course, I asked the Transport Safety Board to look at this: What is the accident development? Why are children affected so much by head injuries? And: Until which age group should the appropriate measures be put in place? And the analysis of the curatorium is also clear in all areas of the opinion that we can really protect our children with a wheel helmet requirement and with the wearing of wheel helmets. And even if it's just a child, I think it makes sense that we decide together. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. I believe that in the area of road safety we have demonstrated in recent years how important it is to pull a line. I know that the belt requirement has led to discussions, the helmet obligation on the moped and on the motorcycle has led to discussions – but today it does not question anyone anymore. [[Abg. Kickl: The light a day has also led to discussions!]] And when it comes to the bike helmet requirement for the children, it will be the same. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22315	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22337	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As mentioned above, the current legislative amendments, which will be introduced into the StVO-Novelle today, are based on a study by the Board of Directors for Transport Safety. Thus, more than 90 percent of respondents are responsible for a bicycle helmet requirement for children. The aim is to increase the wearing rate and reduce the risk of these serious head injuries. Three-quarters of all these head injuries can be avoided by wearing a helmet. I can't share the concerns that this change causes children to ride less bikes. Rather, I believe that it is a pedagogical learning effect for children and means that learned patterns of behaviour will be maintained for later. So: Whoever wears a helmet will do so as an adult. It is primarily about raising awareness and not punishment. For example, the co-indebtedness of supervisors is excluded by law in the event of an accident. The consciousness should be heightened to protect itself. Of course, just as the principle of trust for road users who have a driving licence is intended to be the new consideration for all road users that participation in road transport requires constant caution and mutual consideration. A new road sign indicating a bicycle crossing and a side-by-side protection road will save a road sign and improve perception. In addition, cyclists should be allowed to approach only more with a speed of 10 km/h or more. In this way, cyclists should have enough time to adjust to the respective cross-border traffic. An additional safety aspect has also been mentioned: the possibility of a second line for all two wheels. These should be able to proceed to a further forward drawn line and thus be able to drive more dangerously. This is far safer than starting, for example, next to the column, where trucks can easily be overlooked when they turn right. These and other points of the novel are essential steps towards greater road safety and more protection for children and are absolutely to be supported. Thank you to Minister Bures and the competent ministry!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22380	Mr Vock. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22403	Mr President. Minister! High house! Today we are discussing changes to the STVO. Once again we have the impression of the opposition that this is not very well thought out. For example: Yes to the bicycle helmet requirement for children – but why only for children? You yourself said, Mr Heinzl: children and young people. That means we can take young people in immediately. And then we could take the adults in as role models. Why should I go as a father without a helmet and say to my child: But you have to wear a helmet, because for you the duty is! - That's a bad example! Therefore, a model effect in the sense of awareness-building would certainly be necessary. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It is also incomprehensible, above all, for the proposal to lay down the obligation until the age of 12 years. Why 12 years? This is an arbitrary age. Children are up to 15 years of age, and from the age of 10 they have the bike driver's license. This is essentially the difference in the law: For up to ten years: Those who monitor a child while cycling, carry it on a bicycle or transport it in a bicycle trailer must ensure that the child uses the helmet in a certain manner. – That is, up to the age of ten, you are an adult and can be sure that the child is wearing the helmet. But if the child has a bike driver's license at the age of ten and is on the road alone, I can't control it as an adult anymore. – Yes, that’s exactly why you probably planned the helmet duty from 12 years of age. Only you have overlooked that many children with ten are allowed to ride alone in bicycle traffic because they have made the bicycle driver's license that is quite common. [[Abg. Heinzl: But as a parent, you may already act on the child’s wearing a helmet!]] Yeah, well, but I can't control it! I can give the child a helmet, and it may drive away from home with helmet, but maybe then it won't put the helmet on because it says: The dad never wears a helmet when cycling! – And this is exactly what we have reached at this point: We, the adults, do not have to carry it, and that is why it is not intelligible for the child. Here we are exactly on this question: Why is it only necessary for children up to 12 years old and not 12 years old? I believe that this is also contrary to the statistics that Mrs Minister has referred to. In my view, the following point is also interesting: ‘Engineers may approach cyclist crossings where traffic is not regulated by arm or light signs only at a speed of not more than 10 km/h...’ How is that controlled? We are adopting a law here to be controlled! Are the police standing there with the laser gun and checking if the cyclist is on the road at 10 km/h? – This is just not controllable for me. And then there is another detail that has nothing to do with the whole thing in an important section, § 84 para. 4: ‘Is an advertisement or announcement contrary to the provision of the first subparagraph. 2 and without authorisation according to Abs. 3. the Authority shall arrange for the removal without further procedure.’. She's too busy! – You have brought this in your statement as if it were a kann-destination. No, she's too busy! ‘The distance costs shall be borne by the owner or the person entitled to the service and shall be prescribed by notice.’ In other words, the authority must remove such billboards, it must prescribe the costs for them – and afterwards it can happen what happened to the municipality of Vienna, where the UVS acknowledged that the municipality of Vienna has wrongly removed election posters from the ÖVP, which means that the municipality of Vienna must pay. That is to say, one has to remove it as an authority, then prescribes the costs – and subsequently receives the UVS' opposite decision, because once the UVS has decided against the community, he will continue to do so. So we decide a law that contradicts the decisions of the UVS. The UVS refers to the distance as illegal. The stands were located in the area of motorway lifts and were legally located there. But we demand that they be removed and that this is to be calculated. So this is a contradiction between a law and the position of the UVS. Such contradictions should be discussed in advance and considered before making a decision. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] As I said at the beginning of my remarks: The proposed amendments are poorly thought out. You therefore do not find our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22455	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22476	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. With this proposal for initiative, we are again bringing in a mosaic on the subject of “safety on our streets”, and I think that is right and important. We have already heard it, in the last two drivers' packages, important measures for road safety have also been decided, and with this package it is another step in the right direction. But I'm also happy about one thing: ==References====External links== StVO-Novelle would have been a section, § 82 para. 5, which would have meant an intensification of permits for road fasteners. The fact that we have taken it away is very important for the communities and also for the economy, because this would, of course, be a significant negative contribution to the celebrations in the communities and also to the festivals that take place in the area of street festivals and so on. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] That is why, I believe, it has been very important that we have been able to eliminate this in the interests of the municipalities, the mayor and, of course, the regional economy in the parliamentary process. Everyone who knows, for example, the Maxglaner car-free day in Salzburg, which takes place on the Maxglaner Hauptstraße, where 60 entrepreneurs for tens of thousands of visitors organise a festival all day, which knows that this is important for the regional economy, important for the population and a beautiful signal for a joint action between business, art, culture and gastronomy. So let us be glad that we were able to take this away in the parliamentary process, and we are pleased that the celebrations can continue to take place in our communities and in the cities!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22516	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22539	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Which one of you rides a bicycle? - Great. [[Members of all political groups raise their hands.]] And who of you is driving a bicycle to do business in everyday life – such as shopping, medical visits? [[Some Members have that hand.]] [[Abg. New builder: me!]] Bravo! – [[Abg. New builder: Because the spray is so expensive!]] The Greens don't need to show them, we know about them. – Ah, back there an ÖVP member from Tyrol! – And what about the SPÖ? - Yeah, okay. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: I even live at the top of the mountain!]] Mrs Minister, it is a question of the fact that all those who do their daily rides by bicycle know that this proposal for initiative is unconfirmable simply cannot be determined from practice. You would probably dismiss this application as Hoppala or say: Well, was an errant, let's push him back into the drawer! because this initiative proposal is everything, but certainly not a novel of the StVO in the sense of road safety, an increase in road safety in the bicycle sector. Why? – This law is mainly based on trusts. First hit: Based on legal concerns, the obligation to use bikes is not abolished but maintained. – We all, who ride a bicycle, know: If the cycle path has to be used, do not drive side by side. And if we are talking about road safety especially for children and young people, it is extremely important to drive side by side on the road, then it is extremely important to drive as an adult to the left of the child – and to the right of me my daughter, my son rides by bicycle on the bike path. I can't do that! However, there are no legal concerns that this duty to use bikes is lifted. No expert, no expert ever said: Mrs. Minister, I can't do that! – And that’s why it’s clearly a trick. Second hit: The new traffic signs in two variants are intended to simplify the recognition or whatever. - Not at all! There is a traffic sign more in the bicycle area that looks a bit strange: Then there are the pedestrians and pedestrians and the cyclists, and that was it. And this is a traffic sign more in the insane traffic jungle. Clasp number three, and the most important: Wheel helmet duty for all children up to 12 years increases road safety. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! That's just nonsense. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: You know that very well, don't you? Is that the Soushill Doctrine?]] The only measure to be referred to as a measure to raise road safety is not only a tricky conclusion, but also a nonsense. The helmet obligation is not recognised internationally and nationally for children. It is not about telling parents that you should not put on bicycle helmets for the children, but it is about duty. They led to adult people in Austria, and the decision is actually based on very questionable studies and surveys from 1989. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: (shaking the head) Go, please!]] We don't know exactly what was really asked, in the sense of: Were the cyclists or the cyclists? How old were those?, et cetera. That is, all that has been used for decision in this study is simply questionable. And again: A yes to the helmet, but a clear no to duty! That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] No to duty, yes to helmet – voluntary if it should be. You must never forget: Raising road safety for cyclists and cyclists, including children, always means raising road safety for pedestrians and pedestrians and raising road safety for drivers and drivers.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22667	The amendment tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Soushill, friends and friends is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22731	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22752	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Fathers. If Mr Deimek has also said that it is just a little novice, I think it is a very important innovation for raising road safety, especially because it also concerns our littleest and weakest children, namely our children. Because you, Mrs Moser, meant that we don't need the bicycle helmet that's a nonsense, so I can stop you from even distributing bicycle helmets in Lower Austria, even in Lower Austria, which are being launched in Lower Austria, where she supports it. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The duty! The duty!]] [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: These were ski helmets! They weren't bicycle helmets!]] Therefore, I do not understand why you too, Mrs Soushill, are opposed to moving the children to put the helmet on. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think it should be a matter of concern to all of us – and I hope that we can see that the safety of our children is a very big and high concern. And that is why you should be able to decide on such a law, even if it is not quite a hundred percent according to your ideas, because finally and finally it is really about the safety of our children. If various experts in the committee put forward arguments that a bicycle helmet requirement would result in less cycling, I cannot take it very seriously, because we also had the same problem with the ski helmets, with the skiers. It was also mentioned in the beginning that if you have to put a helmet on, no one will go on the slopes anymore. Today every skier rides with the helmet. [[Abg. Hörl: Voluntarily! Voluntary!]] This is a matter of course – voluntarily, without compulsion. And that will be the same with the cyclists. Mrs. Moser, I am already looking forward to our children, but also we adults are all cycling through the area with a helmet and we have to spend much, much less money on having our children treated in hospitals. Support us in this measure! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And thank you, Mrs. Minister! We're behind you. Keep going! That is a very positive measure again!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22831	Mrs Dr Moser spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22855	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear colleague! You've assumed that my colleague and I are against the helmet. I'm actually correcting: We both have clearly expressed our duty to the wheel helmets! We ourselves also wear wheel helmets.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22885	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22907	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not believe that a systematic evaluation of all measures to improve road safety has been achieved by this initiative, because: On the one hand, to limit a signatory forest, yes, that's all right, but if a cyclist crosses the road and has to reduce the speed to 10 km/h, it will be difficult to understand it. Only: I think it makes sense because when I drive along the ring and then turn right and a cyclist comes with a high speed, I often have a problem because I have to take care of the cyclists on the side road. That's one thing and the other. And if by a measure, as you have said, Mrs Bundesminister, there is less road traffic injuries, then everything you do is all right. Only I believe that this proposal for an initiative will hardly be achieved. And what is particularly disturbing to me is the provisions on the so-called bicycle helmet requirement for children under the age of 12. This is a provision where, for example, the non-carrying of a helmet does not constitute co-indebtedness in accordance with the General Civil Code in the event of a traffic accident. Also, a breach of the newly created helmet wearing obligation is not intended to constitute a breach of administration. But then it is not a helmet wearing obligation, but a helmet wearing recommendation! And for this, Mrs. Federal Minister, there are campaigns – some are being carried out – and this is also important for the education of children's traffic. I'm for driving with helmet. I personally drive a lot with helmet, most of the time. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: But you agree today?]] No, I don't agree, because that's all a shame! Once you make an amendment, you bring it in, then you do something again – with the principle of trust and so on. In this case, that's not going to be the case. Reform of road traffic law must continue and is also necessary. Just as it is done here, this is not the final conclusion of wisdom. In my opinion, much more should be done to raise awareness and to clarify it better, so that this is understood above all by the children and is not ignored by the adults. A major problem is the indisciplineness, especially of many cyclists. I am a cyclist myself, also a driver and, of course, pedestrians. When I look at what some pedestrians are doing – without looking, some just go over the zebra strip! The first driver may still be able to stand, but the second driver, who follows, pushes the first one. Then the pedestrian is destroyed, and it is surprising that such a thing happens on a protection path. It's exactly the same with the cyclists. There are many who do not know the relevant provisions at all. There's a massive campaign to start, Mrs. Federal Minister! One cannot, of course, take all of them in the same way, but above all, education is the most important thing in this area, I believe.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22956	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e22978	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is right and right to say that transport safety policy – effective transport safety policy! – bear a name, and it is Vision Zero and is inseparable with Transport Minister Doris Buresverbanden. I still think very carefully about how the opposition has fallen over this term and turned it around: Zero vision. The figures are correct for the Minister for Transport – and they are impressive. I admit that every road fatality is too much, but the reduction in human suffering that has been achieved can be seen. However, I am a little surprised at the statements of the Greens on the topic of bicycle helmets – in the Committee and again today. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Mandatory!]] Mr Dolinschek: If the words “recommendation” or “commitment” disturb you, I must say that these are semantic differences. There, I think, would be quite possible today. It is precisely about the protection of the weakest in the area of safety of the children, and the bicycle helmet is a safe and effective measure. I admit, probably the bicycle helmet does not prevent an accident, but human suffering is greatly reduced. Remember, what suffering children often have to bear all their lives! They build up the future, and apart from that, there are, of course, also considerable accident consequences. We know the discussion on Voor und Weder about the introduction of the safety belt in the car or of the helmet obligation in the moped. The fact is that there are already helmets due to exploration studies in many countries: in Spain, in the Czech Republic, in Sweden, in Finland, in Australia, in New Zealand and in the USA. I therefore believe that this is a sensible and effective measure to protect our children. Mrs Bundesminister, I think you should not stop on this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23021	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23043	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to refer to the 1504/A request. This request has already been mentioned several times. I can only join our transport spokesperson Deimek: The application casts light and shadow, but what is at least a Murks is the wheel helmet requirement. – Wheel helmet duty for children up to twelve years, that is not fish and not meat from my point of view. This is in the best case a law, but in any case only once a recommendation, because for me the question – and it has not been answered today or in the committee – is why this bicycle helmet requirement applies to children up to 12 years of age. That's incomprehensible. Mrs Lohfeyer said that a little bit of awareness is needed. – But you won’t succeed, for what will happen? Up to twelve children may, when the parents look at it, wear the helmet, but then the young ones will be very vain. As a 13-, 14- or 15-year-old one will probably no longer wear the helmet. Perhaps at the age of 18, the awareness of traffic safety comes back, but how a awareness-building should work if one introduces this law only for children up to twelve years of age, I am incomprehensible. Either one introduces a general bicycle helmet requirement for everyone, in a form that one can also suspect an infringement – because this is not the case here either; a breach is not an administrative violation – or one simply leaves it and simply. You just have to say that. Also, most of the experts have said that they are not so sure whether this wheel helmet requirement really changes something in consciousness, and actually does not do much. – In summary, in fact, the opinion of the experts in the Transport Committee was largely that. I would like to take a brief look at the request of Mr Moser 708/A(E). As our spokesperson has said, we will reject it. In this application, the withdrawal of the cycle benefit obligation seems to us to be totally unsuccessful. Mrs. Moser, I have to say that I am from a small town – from Hollabrunn – and the Greens have always called for the extension of the cycle paths. They have always called for the most vehement, have always said that there is much more security then. Then the municipalities in Lower Austria have gone along with it and have taken a lot of money from public hands, out of tax money, to expand the cycle paths. I think that this proposal is totally counterproductive, because what will happen if you tell the cyclist that he can ride back where he wants? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: He'll drive where it's attractive!]] The communities will probably stop the expansion of the cycle paths. That will be the case, and I do not think that this is in the sense of the cyclists and that your request will contribute to the safety of cycling. You must not forget, the weakest traffic participant is basically the pedestrian and not the cyclist, he is the weakest link in the chain, and I think the cycle paths already have their meaning. You can stop the dangers by barrier between drivers, cyclists and even pedestrians. For this reason, this request is incomprehensible from our point of view, and we will therefore refuse to accept it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23079	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23114	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We do not all dispute that a great deal has happened under your aegide, which has promoted road safety and raised it very strongly. Nevertheless, a number of Members, especially the opposition parties, are opposed to this issue, which is not at all a question for me. But the future will show that you are on the right path. So you can tell them to follow your advice and your actions. Some arguments are not understandable to me at all. Mrs. Windbüchler-Souschill – she is present – said yes to the helmet, but no to the duty. That's where I ask you: For example, how do you stand on the question of alcohol at the tax? Do you also say, yes to the ban on alcohol, but no to the obligation? [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: (make the so-called windshield wiper movement) Go, please! ...!]] So I can't understand this logic, just as I can't even understand the logic of some arguments against the helmet obligation at all. For example, the VCÖ said that less than 10 percent of wheel accidents lead to head injuries. – Yes, my God, this is an argument! I just saw a hand movement. There's no logic. It is about every single case that can be prevented, and I believe that we are really well taken up by Mrs Minister. The future will show that it is on the right path. I am also behind you, in the light of what Mr Stadler said, even if I am in front of you at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23159	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23180	Mr President. Federal Government! High house! It has already been said quite a lot on the subject of transport today, especially as regards the bicycle helmet requirement. Peter Stauber, I agree with you in terms of content, actually a hundred percent, because you said you were for freedom and against being obliged to something. We see it the same way. So I'm glad you refuse your own request. [[Abg. Duster: You think that's a little wrong!]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] No, I know what you meant. It's important and we're all very clear that fewer accidents happen. 87 percent of children up to 12 years of age wear a helmet. We consider the subject matter as follows: If you introduce the helmet, what happens if you forget the helmet? If, for example, the children are with the father on the weekend and not with the mother, do you pay the penalty? That's the problem. If a legal regulation is made – you know it – how to handle it? The law says there's no handling, so no execution. [[Abg. Duster: There is no punishment either!]] There's no punishment either. Then you have to make a recommendation, and the competent minister has to launch a campaign that everyone has to wear a helmet – but voluntarily! That is why we will reject it. Finally, I would like to say once again that we need to start a campaign so that less happens. There we are all, I believe, for that – you too – and therefore we do not want to write it in a law text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23239	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. With regard to the draft law in 1135 of the Supplements, there is a referral request from the honourable Member, Dr Moser, on which we first vote. vote on the draft law concerning a federal law amending the road transport regulations in 1960, to refer it back to the Transport Committee. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of it to have a similar sign. – The application does not find a majority. Rejected. We shall come to the vote on the Committee's proposals, which I shall make separately from each request. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law in 1135 of the Supplements. Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues, who are in favour of the deletion of paragraphs 10 and 11. Whoever joins these changes, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. If you give your consent, I ask you for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you are also in third reading for this draft, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The draft was adopted by a majority in third reading. We come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1136 of the supplements. If you agree, I'll ask you for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:32:46]] 6. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1116, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Risk Goods Promotion Act (GGGG-Novelle 2011) (1137 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23340	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23367	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Short and brittle: We have had this EU directive for a long time, namely: in 2009, to implement. It's also about road safety. We always hesitate. It is also this implementation variant relatively economic-friendly. Unfortunately, the many suggestions made within the assessment period to make improvements have not been taken into account. But the main reason why we reject it is the fact that numerous dynamic references to other EU legal instruments are already anchored pro futuro, so that this legal situation is totally impermeable. Especially for the users, for the truck drivers or also for the people who, for example, purchase heating oil and are therefore obliged to take account of the law, it is not comprehensible. This is, in our view, very worrying. There has also been clear criticism from the Federal Chancellery of the Constitution in the review, and therefore, unfortunately, we cannot accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23404	Mr Heinzl came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23425	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Transport safety also includes the issues of the safe and correct transport of dangerous goods, but the consequences of improper transport of sensitive goods can be devastating. Today's amendment to the Risk Goods Transport Act is not only limited to the transport of dangerous goods by road or rail, but also deals with the regulation of transport by plane or ship. In these areas, the integration of the Convention on the Transport of Dangerous Goods on inland waterways should be welcomed as well as the additional competences of civil aviation surveillance. The extension of the corresponding rules on the transport of dangerous goods by military vehicles or military vehicles is also a good innovation. Finally, the EU Directive on the transport of dangerous goods by inland transport will also be transposed into Austrian law. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, the House of Lords, that the already extensive provisions are thus clarified and supplemented and a further step towards greater road safety has been taken. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23462	Mr Schultes. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23484	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! The Risk Promotion Act is a law of dry matter, but in reality it is an important law, because it regulates how to carry out transports from Portugal to Hungary, that is, across the whole of Europe, so that risks are reduced as far as possible. I'm in the fire department myself, I know exactly what it means when something really happens that you can help yourself then. In fact, this law regulates the transport needs, the responsibilities, the papers that need to be written, the technical and electronic accompanying texts, all that is necessary to know in the critical case what is included in a transport container, to know how to deal with it when something happens, how to handle it properly and how to behave, so that when loading, nothing can happen when unloading. Finally, this law is a law that tries to minimize risks and make life easier for all of us. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And the dynamic references!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] It is the task of this law to regulate on the one hand rail transport and on the other hand traffic on the road and on the water. Some materials were first brought together by this law. This is a matter which must, of course, be regulated in Europe on the one hand, because it must also apply in the same way in all countries, and on the other hand it is a law that we want to implement. One point that was a little overwhelming in the review – I have to mention it because it had a certain entertainment value for us – was the fact that the design stated that some dangerous goods with some devices – with tractors, in German – may not be transported if the design speed is more than 40 kilometers per hour, including, not above. This would mean that a car – if I are allowed to venture the comparison to the motorway now – that has a speed of more than 130 kilometers per hour, is not allowed to drive on the motorway, one that can not drive faster than 130, but is already allowed to drive. We've now said we're doing it with tractors like the highway. No matter what you've loaded, you can just drive as fast as it says in the law, and then everything fits again. In German: The design speed doesn't matter, the law decides how fast a transport can drive. That is what we have now decided. These are important details for people to know. Ladies and gentlemen, big laws, small portions and, how should I say, great importance and small effects, but for ordinary people it is often very annoying. That's a law that's right for everyone now, also for the fire brigade. - Thanks to everyone who goes along.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23520	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23542	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I can assume that we will also give our approval to this novel, as well as to the Transport Committee. It includes necessary adaptations and changes, which are certainly worth supporting for us. As an example, a clearer and more detailed aviation regime is mentioned, where the obligations of the parties and extended control provisions are now also laid down. For the Minister of Defence, there is the possibility – in agreement with the Federal Minister – to order the German army with regard to such arrangements. I am also entitled to the Federal Army of ADR, and I believe that there are no objections from the Federal Minister for Defence. It's all a step in the right direction. In another area, Mrs. Federal Minister, we have, however, taken a step in the wrong direction, namely, when it comes to moving the freight transport of the terminal Werndorf from the rail to the road in Styria – an important topic for us Steirer. Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking here of a measure that would lead to 17 000 trucks being sent to the road in a region that is already finely dusted, where our state councillor Dr. Gerhard Kurzmann is now fighting to minimize the fine dust load. I say it quite openly: I believe that this planned measure of Rail Cargo and the ÖBB is going in the wrong direction. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I really would ask you to try with great emphasis to start negotiations with the ÖBB and with the Rail Cargo. It is about the economic location south of Graz, and it is also about jobs, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to support the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, above all, I would ask our Styrian Members to support this request in a fractional manner.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23605	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23663	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23685	Mr President. Minister! High house! I think this law is a good law, because it is clear here that security is promoted. There are major problems with the use of force – that has already been addressed by Mr Schultes – if they do not know what is inside such tanks. There are always dangerous goods transports that are badly marked, which cause problems. Just as someone who comes from a region where a valley length is, where dangerous goods accidents occur very often – I am now talking about the German border at Hörbranz, where this is more common – I know what I am talking about, and I know what is happening to the forces there. At present, Austrian provisions and comprehensive intergovernmental agreements such as ADR, RID or ADN regulate the safe handling of the transport of certain substances and articles classified as dangerous goods, because they pose a risk to the body, life and health of humans, animals and the environment because of their characteristics in transport. Now the whole thing is being brought to the European level, so that, truly for all the perceptible, the same conditions in different countries, there are the same possibilities of recognition. That is why this law is to be welcomed. We from the BZÖ will be happy to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23715	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23736	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We come from an EU directive on the transport of dangerous goods by law Year 2008 after. For our forces, this is a way to more information, to improve more in those situations of use, which we can experience every day and also take out the newspapers. As someone from a community in the South of the motorway, where 200 000 vehicles are moving every day, I know what such transports of dangerous goods can cause and what it is about our forces. That means more control, more safety, as well as more training in the civil aviation sector, in the inland water sector, as well as in the field of military vehicles, more staff training and more penalties at international level. That's what's still open. To have a directive at European level for the criminal framework would be our wish. In conclusion, however, I do not want to fail to point out once again that the clock is ticking on the change. The 100 km/h limitation runs at 30. June off. I hope we can find a common solution here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23779	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1116 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We'll come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft at third reading, I would ask for a sign. – This is also decided by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, Mr Sanger, Mr Riemer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues on the maintenance and extension of freight transport on the railways and the maintenance of the Graz Süd terminal. If you support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. - He doesn't find a majority. The application is rejected. [[18:46:10]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the Government Template (1115, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Patent Office Fees Act (1158, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23843	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23867	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'll do it briefly. When we received the request, we were a little surprised because we asked ourselves: Why these new charges? – The fact that there was a mistake behind that – not in your ministry, but allegedly in the Federal Chancellery, where, in the course of the preparation of the budget accompanying laws, one simply let a few columns disappear, inadvertently, of course – is quite clear, but in the course of the repair some increases were inside, we were less pleased about that. To sum up, we can say, of course, that the Patent Office needs a certain source of money and funding. However, as part of the budget accompanying legislation, we have already rejected the fees with such an increase. We will therefore also reject this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23900	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23921	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! New patents, new innovations contribute significantly to increasing value added in our country. It is therefore important to devote this area of patents, innovations, inventions not only to paying due attention, but above all to promoting it in many ways. I would like to comment on two points. First: Despite the economic crisis in 2009, the number of applications for invention in Austria remained constant at a high level. In contrast, the European Patent Office has had to reduce 8.3 percent, in Germany of 4.5 percent, and in the United States of America there has also been a decline. The targeted Austrian funding policy has shown a very positive effect and has led to very encouraging results. Support for small and medium-sized enterprises in cooperation with the aws and innovation protection innovations are strong priorities. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out that it is also a matter of thinking and acting in the long term. For example: What can be done to awaken the inventive spirit of young people to inspire young people and stimulate their curiosity? – Very current: Nearly two weeks ago, the largest Austrian Science Center was opened in the town of Wels by President Dr. Heinz Fischerand State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer, the Welios. This is a co-major exhibition, which is playfully experienced, with 150 co-machexonates, where rotating, pressing and curling can be done. On 3 000 m2 the basics for solar energy, hydropower, wind power, geothermal and biomass are shown. So the Welios offers a lot for old and young. Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion: We are on a very good path, the work bears good fruit, the results are pleasing. Of course, it is important to keep in mind the costs and make adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23961	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e23983	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law abolishes the raising of fees to the objective or free areas. In the explanations, there are the following explanations to think of: ‘... that the introduction of this fee is also intended to have a prohibitive effect on presumptuous applications in simple and written procedures and to reduce procedural burden.’ We're in a rule of law. It is remarkable if such reasons are then taken into account in the explanations. We reject the proposal in this form. I would like to take a brief look at my previous speaker, who presented how great Austria would be with the patents. – Yes, but this needs to be seen in total: What does that mean in the European context? – Asia is an absolute leader here. Because we are confronted with values like 56.2 percent in China, with 20.5 percent in Korea, and so the figures continue. It is difficult for Europe to fall, even if Austria currently has a positive to say. Mrs Minister, today and in particular tomorrow we will have the opportunity to discuss further the investment in research and education, which is the foundation for innovation, for possible patents, because there will be bad surprises. This de facto lays the foundation stone that it will become difficult in the next few years with innovations and therefore, of course, for patents. There is no need for additional increases in fees in patent applications.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24022	Mrs Bures is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24043	Mr President. Mrs Lichtenecker, I have also drawn the attention of the Patent Office to this wording in the explanations in this new law. I am entirely of your opinion that explanations, which are of course not part of a legislative text, should nevertheless be designed in such a way that there is a stronger customer orientation. That is why, I believe, we can assume together that in future we will also take into account the fact that customer-friendly formulations are being made. Even if this is just an editorial change that we are discussing today, I would nevertheless like to stress the achievements of the Austrian Patent Office, because the Austrian Patent Office is a close partner of the Austrian economy, and because we know that innovations for the domestic economy are the drivers of economic growth and economic recovery. You know, we have had difficult years behind us, we have had to live through a great financial and economic crisis over the last two years. However, the pleasure of this is that the Austrian economy's spirit of innovation and strength clearly stand out from the European conditions. In Austria, we managed to have 2.1 percent more patent applications, i.e. companies have invested in research and technology development despite difficult economic conditions. That is the opposite of the European trend. While the number of patent applications has decreased in the majority of EU Member States, as research and technology has been reduced, it has increased in Austria. This has a lot to do with the fact that the Austrian Patent Office offers high quality and is a close partner of the economy. It is very important, however, that, if this protection of intellectual property is taken over, we should also take into account the need to design the fees according to the cost coverage principle. I would ask you to support this. For 15 years the fees have been raised for the first time, we have now agreed to the valorization. I believe that if we want to keep the quality and close contact with the economy, it is also justified after 15 years to make this increase in a truly moderate way. By the way, you know that I am very committed to this because the Austrian economy is naturally export-oriented, that we will have international, but above all at European level, with a European patent law in the future, without which we will still have better protection. I am glad that the talks in Brussels are also very positive. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24086	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24107	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this fee adjustment to the Patent Office Fees Act is about an adjustment that we have already negotiated with the Budgetary Accompanying Laws, but we have not come to a decision on the basis of editorial problems. It is important here to also have the cost-effectiveness of these fees and, above all, to adapt them to non-cost fees. I believe, as you do, Mrs Lichtenecker, that as a basis for research we do not have the fees for patents, but research and innovation as such in principle. That's why I don't think that's going to stop a researcher. It is far more important to make these administrative adjustments on the one hand – therefore, this should not stop his application – but on the other hand, as it also makes Minister Mitterlehner with his medium-sized offensive to promote innovation. I would just like to point out briefly the innovation check New, the technology coaching check, where thousands of checks are now being placed at €1,000 each, which young researchers and entrepreneurs are to support in this area of legal advice on patent protection and licensing rights. I believe that this is the right way to move forward here, to stimulate research on the one hand, but on the other hand to be helpful when it comes to waterproof laws on the other.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24140	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24162	Mr President. High house! You can look at things from two sides. It is true that fees have been adjusted, but free requests with costs have been made so far. That is what I say quite clearly and clearly: If, as noted in the government's FTI strategy, we want to get from the Innovation Followers to the Innovation Leaders, we must not send the wrong signal. I was also concerned about evil, if I now look at the Federal Financial Framework Act 2012 to 2015 at a glance and there I realize that there is no increase for research and development, and then I wonder how the proposed R&D quota should be reached from 4 percent to 3.76 percent. We can't do that. It is the wrong signal, in our opinion, that when 2% more patents are filed, these people are also penalised with a patent tax, which is additionally hit on it. We believe that this is unnecessary and that there should be no increase. We will therefore reject this draft law by the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24204	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1115 of the supplements. If you are in favour of this draft, I ask you for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you also agree to this draft at third reading, I would ask for a sign. – This is decided by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:59:25]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on Amendment 1492/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues on public debate on the research strategy in Parliament (1155 d.a.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on motion 1051/A(E) by Mr Mag. Rainer Widmann, colleagues in the Research Finance Act (1156 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24268	We come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The first speaker was Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24293	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In the context of the two requests for debate, one was already very interesting and partly interesting, namely that the government parties, the political groups, gave each other the mandate to their members of the government to implement the strategy. There you have to say, that was really praiseworthy. You don't find it very often. We have joined this immediately, because a strategy that is not implemented is actually not worth the money it was created with. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mr Greenewald's point of discussing this at all, whether adopted or rejected, was very interesting. Now we have exactly the debate on the strategy. I do not think that the government would have been bad advice to let them really discuss them, because this strategy does not have to be hidden. She's really not the worst this house's ever seen. It starts once by taking a basic, positive approach, namely a comprehensive approach. One has not only says: Research and development, and what do we want in it?, but: What is necessary to carry out this research and this development, whether it be the risk capital that has been referred to people, and so on. A comprehensive approach has really been adopted. That's where you have to say: It is positive that this has been included in the debate and strategy. It must also be noted positively that this strategy was truly adopted unanimously in the Council of Ministers. We know that from various other laws, last but not least, we have had this in the transport sector at the Westring: There are several projects, and finally the Minister of Finance says: Echibian, no money for it! – In this case, the Minister of Finance also participated. That's commendable, that's right. If he really is in the final effect behind it, for example, the goal of the R&D quota of almost 4 percent – 3.76 percent – then he must not only lower his signature, but then he – or in the case of the new government – must release the money for it. Of course, it will be particularly interesting when it is time to start again if the companies don't invest so much for R & D and don't do so much R & D projects. Then, of course, the state has to intervene again, and then the state has to finance the corresponding projects, and then, of course, the nail sample comes. Why is reaching this high F&E ratio so interesting for Austria? – This can be seen not only in the European context, but also in international comparison. States like China or Singapore, which might have been smiled ten years ago, are pushing. There are these expenditures there, of course the state behind them too. With China you can say: That's clear, that's where the state stands. But these are the nations that are going to afflict us already and especially in the next five years. You have low costs. And if they also have the appropriate new and good technologies, it's the threat scenario. That means: We really have to make money there. But making money also means cutting away the bacon that you have collected there and there in bad times and using this money for research and development. One point that must also be taken into account and also taken into account in the strategy is the so-called human capital, the people. There are several measures – lastly it was the MINT initiative of Federal Minister Karl – with the help of which one says: Let's bring more people, more young people to the technical and scientific subjects! I believe that various approaches that have been adopted in the BMVIT should be taken up again, whether it be the “long night of research” or the like. You just have to make natural sciences, you have to mathematics, you have to make technology for the children, for the young people. I think these subjects are also interesting. Then we also have enough human material – as it always means in the technical jargon as beautiful or as bad – then we have enough interested people we can also use. Then you don't have to think about what a key force you're taking. Is the mother of a special girl now a key force, only because she feeds chickens, isn't she? That's not a key force. Key forces are academics, key forces are mechanics, key forces are technicians, but certainly not that kind of thing. Thank you, anyway. We will definitely support this strategy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24372	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24393	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for this constructive and very good speech. It is a pleasure that the opposition groups also find a positive attitude to this research strategy. That's really gratifying. I also believe that it has really become a remarkable template. It is even the first time that an Austrian government is committed to a strategy, so to speak, and wants to implement it in the medium term. We all know that ambitious goals are: 3.75% by 2020 are more or less to invest. Of course, we need not only directly in the R&D area – you mentioned it – but also in the environment a research-friendly attitude. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek]] This begins in primary schools, in secondary schools and, of course, at universities. I am also convinced that the new Minister of Science has not just gone to Vienna for the sake of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but that he has very concrete ideas about how he wants to make his work successful at the universities. This, of course, also requires that more money be available there in the next few years than before. Let me briefly replicate: I would like to thank the members of the governments of these four departments who agreed and agreed on this strategy. I really believe that it is also shown that the government team is now very interested in a constructive and successful research policy for the benefit of this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24437	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24458	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's look back: What is the history of this research strategy, which was decided by the Council of Ministers, which has not been discussed in Parliament so far, has not been widely discussed? At the Alpbach Forum in August 2009, the Minister and Minister Hahn, who is now EU Commissioner, announced that there will be a research strategy by June 2010 and that there will be a research funding law. The implementation of the major announcement has been pending. It has become March 2011. It's something has been produced behind closed doors over and over again, parts have gone out, which have been very critically assessed by experts. Well, the paper is there, and I think there are a lot of good approaches to discuss and to discuss. That's why our green excuse is that we say: All right, let's discuss this publicly! Let us make a parliamentary survey and put it on a broad basis – with the experts, with the research institutions – the question: Where do we want to set priorities and strategic orientation? So far, the government parties continue to refuse to carry out a parliamentary survey in this form. I don't know why. I think the strategy is a good foundation, and a good basis should be secure. That is where I come on the subject of financing. The funding is not secured by Weitem, although I would like to quote two parts here, on the one hand, in the research strategy on page 46, that there should be a research funding law and that is what Hahn has announced. This announcement has its good reasons. He says: Research needs trust, uncertainty is poison! - That's it, too. The current situation is that everything contained in the strategy, Mr Deimek, is in no way financially secured. The Economic Research Institute expects that, in order to achieve the target you have anchored by 2020 – the 3.76 percent – by 2015, €930 million was missing in this system! Now the question is: What is a strategy that is not financially secured? – That is why we are also proposing this, because we believe that this very important area of science and research – welcome, Minister! – the corresponding security needs. [[Quoted print version removed]] I think this is a central, an important step. In the sense of the joint motion, I would like to ask you today to support this motion for a resolution and to think that it would be time for us to take a lead here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24528	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24590	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24611	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister of State! Now it is finally on hand, the Federal Research and Innovation Strategy. It is so important because, for the first time in Austria, it has succeeded in developing a common strategy across all the ministries concerned. It is a common strategy not only consisting of empty culprits, but also of concrete objectives in each chapter, where specific measures are also included in the individual objectives. Mr Federal Minister, all of us together are waiting for a tough phase of implementation of all these measures and objectives! A research funding law is important. But I am sorry that we continue to evaluate research and innovation only after the input, after that, how much money – and most importantly from the federal government – gets into the system, and not after what the results are. This view would be the basis of the research strategy: How does the output in research look like, where innovation is concerned? What makes sense? What is qualitatively further development? What areas of focus, great social challenges await us, can we define together to get better? I'm sorry that only the money is discussed. Today, the ratio of public funding in the field of research has increased much higher than economic growth. The State carries as a percentage in Austria significantly more involved in the research rate than in other countries where the economy has a greater share. The question we have to ask ourselves is: How can we use every single euro we use in such a way that it also attracts additional resources for research and innovation? Otherwise, we will not achieve the high objective of raising the research quota to the desired 3.76 percent by 2020. That is why we have to ask ourselves the right questions: How can we become more innovative? There are so many areas to be set up. This begins with a much better education system. I have to praise my colleague Walser of the Greens. I liked that very much. In a recent interview, he said, instead of a total debt debate and other system debates: Our school system is incredibly deficient. I'll give it to him. We pay far too little attention to where the strengths of the students are. We look far too much at the mistakes our youth makes at some point. I think drawing the right consequences is much more important than what title stands at the front of the school and what the whole thing is called. That is to say, it is about introducing a system change, having companies that can afford to invest in research and innovation, even if we are not a country of large companies, but rather of small and medium-sized but highly innovative companies, which simply and grippingly also because of the tax screws are missing the money to invest in innovation. At the same time, it is important to consider that not only the greatest innovations are the ones – even if we need radical innovations – that have the greatest output and success. When we look at Apple, we see that Apple is a company that does not invent radical new things at all, but is developing already introduced technologies so advanced and making them so user-friendly and human-friendly that they are successful. These are things that we might be able to do particularly well in Austria with our cultural background, which we also need to pay greater attention to. Mr. Federal Minister, I am looking forward to working together, even if you and I would like to have much more money available for research and science. A little bit more we'll put on our feet together. But that we will be able to make high quality improvements within the given difficult budgetary framework, I am convinced. I'm looking forward to the joint work.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24666	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Widmann speaking. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24688	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! We have waited almost two years for the FTI strategy. We were not allowed to consult Parliament as parliamentarians, we were not allowed to decide on them either. It is present, and it is essentially written off by the report of the Council on Research and Technology, and I welcome the fact that the content is very interesting, in some areas right, in some areas quite obliging. The point is: Nice words were said a lot. Minister, how do you want to finance this? We would also like to help you with the opposition. It can not that we are developing on the one hand great strategies, which are correct, objectively correct, and all know what to do, but on the other hand, on the other hand, we do not take money for them in comparison with the Federal Republic of Germany. On the contrary, I say it again: In the Federal Financial Framework Act 2012 to 2015 – I hear – there are no increases for this important future area. However, there are increases in agriculture, for example. I'm asking you now: Is the future of Austria, the future of the site, the future of the economy, the future of research and development in the agricultural field or would it not be better to really focus on research and development? It is important that the FTI concept should also be discussed intensively in Parliament, not with short debates, but in the comprehensive debate here in plenary. The target of the Federal Government – as has been said, 4 percent of GDP was originally achieved in the R&D area, according to the government programme – has already been reduced to 3.76 percent. Only, this 3.76 percent – I repeat – is not accessible with this budget framework programme. It is clear that funding is state-owned, together with the private sector. I wonder how this should work. It is therefore all the more important, in planning, in the financing of research institutions, in applied research for SMEs, for businesses, for industry, as well as in basic research for all university institutions in the tertiary field, but also in the private sector, to finally make nails with heads so that they can carry out appropriate research projects. I remember: 2009, Alpbach, Minister Hahn, who addressed and promised the Research Funding Act. Nothing else does the BZÖ want to announce here today with its proposal, too, than that we need planning certainty that we need a research funding law that gives security over years, not from budget to budget. This research promotion law is actually addressed on page 46 in the FTI strategy, which is available, which is why I am quite sure that ÖVP and SPÖ will support our request today. That means, ladies and gentlemen, According to your beautiful words, also put concrete actions and also decide on the research funding law, because otherwise everything that has been said here by ÖVP and also by SPÖ side, by government, only sound and smoke, is not to take seriously and not to support.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24743	Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24764	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am very happy about it, even if – there is the saying: Good thing needs a while! – it may have taken some time for a common strategy on research and technology development from the Austrian Federal Government. This joint strategy of the Federal Government has, as it were, had a very important evaluation of our research promotion system in the past. I believe that the findings and lessons from this evaluation are actually included in this common strategy and that the task is really taken very seriously. The result of the evaluation is on the table: We need clearer objectives in research. We need a vision because it is always important to set goals. At the same time, however, we need very concrete measures in terms of when we come to this common vision and objective with what instruments, even with what means. This also means that real improvements are necessary, in terms of investment in research and technology development, but also in structures and in terms of organisation and cooperation, namely the use of synergies. Our vision – we have already discussed the research strategy in the Committee – is clear: We have the objective of increasing the current research rate of 2.76 percent by 1 percentage point to reach 3.76 percent of GDP as a research quota. We will not be able to achieve this by public investment alone; of course, we also have the objective of two-thirds of investment in research and technology, especially in applied research, from private investment. This also means taking measures to ensure that companies invest and make a significant contribution to this. I believe that the research strategy has also succeeded in having a comprehensive approach for the first time. From education to basic research, from applied research – in my area – to risk capital provisions and system applications, this has actually been recorded here. In the field of applied technology development and innovation, it has not only succeeded in saying: These are investments in the future, and despite the necessary consolidation of the budget, no cuts are made here. In the field of applied research, we have even succeeded in activating offensives once again. In the next four years, that is to say by 2014, we will invest in applied research – where it is about employment, where it is about strengthening the economic location – in addition € 110 million. This year I will invest more in the area of €20 million to give the economy impulses for research and technology. Despite a very difficult budgetary situation, this means an increase of 5 percent! I mean, that's all remarkable, and it's causing us to be able to actually strengthen the economic location. Let me take a very brief look at the measures taken by BMVIT in the field of applied research. Of course, it is not only the question of the amount of funds, but it is also about what we can achieve with each of the € used: What multiplier effects, what employment effects can we actually achieve? If you have less resources at your disposal, I think it is even more important that you focus on the strengths of a country and that you take care to select and invest in applied research where you are also relatively quick in the market application of new products and you know that in these areas the major social challenges lie. In my view, there are four priorities in applied research. The first priority, of course, is information and communication technologies, and the second priority is energy – the main challenges such as climate change or resource shortage – and the third is mobility, and the fourth priority is smart production. I believe that it is particularly good in the field of intelligent production that I will invest the additional resources we have available as offensives precisely in this area, because the investment in the real economy is. We have in Austria We have only 650 000 employees in the field of property production, and of course we always have a massive pressure from low-cost countries in production processes. Therefore, when it comes to implementing innovative production applications, it is particularly important to promote this sector, because this is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises in the Austrian economy. Effects result from any funding euro that is used, additional revenues and license receipts of € 19.30. Every time around €20 000 is invested in this area, this means an additional high-quality workplace in research and technology. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So the good news is: We have a common coherent, broad strategy of the Austrian Federal Government for research and technology development. We have taken out research from budget consolidation and have also provided additional resources in the area of applied and in the research premium, which we have increased from 8 to 10 percent. BMVIT remains on the growth path in this area, and there is, as has been said, a common strategy that we are now addressing in order to implement these measures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by informing you about the following: That today is the Girls’ Day, you know, I think, everyone. Unfortunately, I have not been able to be at many events, because, as you know, I have been here this morning at 9 a.m. in the debates in the National Council. But I would like to take the Girls’ Day as an opportunity to inform you that we have gender issues in research funding. In other words, research projects that take more account of women also have a greater chance of promoting research. In these two years, I have succeeded in having 50 percent women at AIT, 35 percent of women at FFG, 40 percent of women in AustriaTech in the Supervisory Board, 75 percent of women in the Research and Technology Development Council, and that is good! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24843	In addition, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Daughters. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24864	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr rapporteur! High house! Austria has more than doubled its expenditure on research and development over the past ten years. The current global estimate of Statistics Austria for 2011 shows us that the measures of the Federal Government to invest specifically in science and research have been the right decision at the right time. Now, of course, we have this text that I, which I entered office only last week, could not write. I've studied him carefully: I find him extremely successful. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's right, the text has succeeded! The implementation is missing!]] He has succeeded; the great art will be his implementation, that is clear to me. Art will be to provide appropriate financial resources for it. In any case, it is suitable as a strategy to strengthen the attractiveness of the scientific and economic location in Austria in the long term. As Minister of Science and Research, it is important to stress the central role of universities in the country's capacity for innovation. That is why I will be committed to the implementation of the FTI strategy to be adopted by the Federal Government and will be determined to implement its measures and initiatives together with my colleagues in the Federal Government, in particular colleagues Mitterlehner and Mrs Collaborative Bures. The reintroduction of the overheads at the FWF and the redesign of the non-university research landscape, for example through the reform of the Academy of Sciences, have been successfully launched. The implementation of the Science Excellence Initiative and the strengthening of the transfer of knowledge and technology from universities will be central priorities in my term of office as Minister of Research. Every public euro in science and basic research is well invested, ensures the competitiveness of the site and ensures the necessary creativity and innovation to ensure the country's future capacity and opportunities for young people in our country. The framework conditions must be designed in such a way that both young and arfluent scientists from Austria can carry out their research. I am very happy and very motivated to face these challenges. I can therefore ask you to work with me on strengthening the Austrian site, and I invite all stakeholders from science, business and society to support me. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24901	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24922	Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Like many of my previous speakers, I also welcome the common strategy of four ministries under the leadership of German Chancellors and Vice-Presidents. I believe that the basis for drawing up the strategy was a very essential factor, namely, on the one hand, the evaluation of the research funding system already mentioned by the Federal Minister for Research Bures, but also the results of the research dialogue and the recommendations made by the Research and Technology Council. That is to say, a very large group of personalities involved in these areas have been involved in the design of this technology strategy. However, I also think it is important that there has also been the possibility for a large number of stakeholders to bring their impulses and inputs into five working groups, which are partly also reflected in this strategy. I might like to mention these six or seven priorities, which make up the strategy, because this has not yet been done. This includes the sustainable transformation of our education system – we have also heard the initiators of the educational demand before consulting – the strengthening of basic research, especially in the area of strengthening excellence and quality, strengthening the innovative power of companies – a very essential aspect for the economic location – the increase in the number of R&D companies, an efficient organisation of political governance – this approach, which we have here in the research strategy, is a very positive aspect – and the dissemination of financial support – I will then address it very briefly; and the strengthening of the transfer of knowledge and technology from universities. But what seems very important to me is that we have to create an innovative climate and that the research strategy also explicitly mentions the positive, the model effect of the federal government. I mention BIG, BBG or e-Government as three keywords that should be mentioned here. I also find it essential that you win the youth and make it curious for research. I have already mentioned in the Committee the example of the Science Center at Wels, which is Welios. I wish that quite a lot of young, but not only young, but also older people who are curious, can go there and actually deal with these developments by understanding them, who are not only served but can also do something themselves. I mean, that's a very good approach to awakening researchers' minds. Research funding – and this is probably a very important point – is also described in the strategy with the focus. Mrs Bures has already referred to the two-thirds financing target. But I believe that the essential thing is that we can make it possible for companies to be stimulated on a broad front through improved framework conditions and adequate incentives for more research and innovation. We all know each other, the economic location, but also the workplace of Austria will be strongly influenced by the extent to which we manage to get on track in the innovation area.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24959	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e24980	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Yes, whatever happens today will change if we do not know in any way. I think that this conceptual vision 2020 has found broad support here, and so welcome is the objective of the Federal Government's initiative, the question of necessary money has already been raised several times. Education and research, however, not only cost money – I might want to bring in some additional thoughts here – but also need a motivating environment. I think that essential – also as an emotional factor – is: Where is Austria already a world champion, in the university sector, in industry, in the small and medium-sized economy? What communication networks are there already? What communicating fields already work between the top education institutions, the vocational education institutions and in-house training institutions? Where do many knowledge media come from in parallel, without being able to develop interconnectedly? I also think that an important point is to present the following: How can we immaterially better anchor the brand work in Austria in the hearts and brains of the people in order to ensure intellectual and material success for this conception? I am also thinking about the debate on education. If human potential and qualifications want to be developed and used as best possible, then today's education and school system discussion is not a very good example in my opinion. Here I see an egalitarian decline instead of an elitist rise – not to mention the job situation 2020! Different gifts also need different methods; one can only agree with that. Preferences for choice of study and profession: That's what's going on. But already, due to the lack of adequate jobs for the future. This does not mean, however, in any case, that there may still be a neglect of a corresponding performance assessment, and this despite highly motivated teachers. I think it's essential for the whole thing, too: Promote and demand! – This is an important story. The last point: Social competence. I have found a word in the whole concept, namely social competence, but it is important today. How do we bring people back into greater interaction within society? How do we strengthen solidarity principles in daily dealing with the others? And so on. – This also entails a substantial increase in performance. In summary – I quote from Vision 2020 – can be said: Let us simply make reality out of visions, and we organize – as in point 5: “Give guidance, set a framework” – politically the future of 2020, but already from today. This means a new culture of communication and motivation, the customer orientation from the student or kindergarten to the older fellow citizen or the older fellow citizen, according to the workplace situation at the respective time requirement. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25031	The next speaker was Mr Mag. That's right. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25053	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Indeed, we all agree that, in order to ensure prosperity in Europe and, of course, in Austria, the development of scientific innovations must be continued. Some of the Council's statements are interesting in this regard. For example, the Council noted: Austria has the prerequisites to meet the challenges in order to maintain the level of prosperity. – That seems encouraging. But what else does he say: The potential of qualifications is only modest in Austria, and improved access to education opens up considerable opportunities for development here. And he says something: He criticises the early selection after the elementary school. In the Committee, both Dr. Skalicky and Dr. Hannes Androsch have pointed out that we have fewer and fewer young scientists. The opposition has also said this today; Mr Deimek, you're so close to me: You broke that up. But on school issues, which are then the basis for scientific development – Mr. new ministers, I am sure you will be right, and I, as a teacher, who was allowed to be in the scientific field for 27 years, can do so, I believe, and you are different. I would like to work out briefly why we have too few young scientists or why we generally lack very powerful students. And I say that this is statistically already in the folk school and then, of course, continues. The goal is a good witness in the school, and everything is subordinated to that so that you can send the student or the student to the gymnasium. The error is fixed. It has also been said today by the ÖVP-side that we also have a We have to give a chance; only by trying and discovering do we come to scientists. I would like to mention a few points which, in connection with the common school, are always knowingly mispronounced or which otherwise have any relevance. South Tyrol: I'm sure you're right, Dr. Dägele, South Tyrol is always a standard example of great things in conservative circles, where I'm also there. But at the common school it is silenced. In none of the countries leading in education there is such an early separation as with us. That's going to be silent, too. The primary schools in certain regions, for example in the Zillertal, are standard examples of a common school. In the Zillertal, the proportion of pupils who go to primary school after primary school is 100 percent; and they have very, very good achievements. So that means that a common school is very possible, and that it is not true, just as the counter-propaganda always claims it is an equalizer. There is no doubt that there is an internal differentiation at the common school. Another example: It is said, for example, by the then President of the Community – when I was still in the country day – that the common schools are monster schools, in the sense of too large. These are to be run economically only with 1,500 students, he claimed in the municipal association newspaper. And so it's on and on and on, it's making a good fixture for itself. Why am I saying this today? – Because a new science minister is sitting there and I, as a Tyrolean, appeal to you, Minister Dr. Däderle: Don't help the SPÖ, it's not about the SPÖ. This is about the youth, and it is about the future of Austria. I hope that you will be very firm in this goal, in the sense of the students, and help us to move forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25114	As the last speaker on these agenda items, Mr Grünewald spoke. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25135	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I do not know that the cooperation of several ministries and the development of a research concept is progress. Many right questions have been asked. One or the majority of the answers is also correct, but the central point is: How do you do it? I have nothing to do with asking real questions and not saying how to finance them. When I say to someone: Buy a better car, but now you have to go through it firmly – he will also thank you. In research – as I already have to correct Mrs. Hakl, who is unfortunately not here now – not only will input be discussed, but research and innovation without investment – they also need large-scale equipment – are not possible. And output-oriented were always unis and research sites. No one could stay at the university if he did not perform certain scientific achievements and publications. But to understand research in such a way that research is organized into five-year plans and already at the beginning says: That's got to come out. That's got to get out of here? – Da Invest in Red Bull or Rubber Bärli or in better washing machines! It can't be. Basic research is significantly under-ducated in Austria at 0.4 percent of GDP, and I think it is good if you have utopia. These are very many good headlines with mostly good text. But if there is no financing guarantee at all, I have nothing of the most beautiful shiny brochure. I've read a lot of good things that never came true. You've already promised us a lot that we're still waiting for today. That's where I'm very close to the Minister's daughter and also to you. [[towards Federal Minister Bures]] It must be the insight of the Ministry of Finance and the entire government! – That’s what it says: Research, innovation and technology must be a fundamental focus of political action in times of crisis. - That's about it. How does the way there lead? – About education and research, write. Read the APA today: The universities are already making savings plans, considering where they need to reduce personnel. There will be saved and there will be saved. The Research Council and others also say: We are miles away from the budget path, which is to take us to where it is possible, then, to thank God, too. Now you can tell me: Okay, we can't, we're not able to do that. – You can discuss this. But then don't say, It's done with the brochure. This is the beginning. We have to get to the destination by putting money in there, where you always say: It is needed most urgently and has the biggest return. One last word on basic research: It is financially far less advanced than applied research. You can be congratulated. There are the three to fourfold increase rates. The basic funds with us do not even have a third of sister funds in international other research funding funds. Japan has focused only on applied research that undermines basic research until it comes to fruition, now everything has been applied and nothing has been done. So we should keep the balance between applied research and basic research better. We Greens are 100% your allies, but we don't believe it until we see a euro.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25209	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology to take note of its report 1155 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1492/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1155 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by a majority. (E 158.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, colleagues, on the commitment to the provision of financial resources in the FTI strategy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology to take note of its report 1156 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[19:48:24]] 10. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (1087, e.g._Other Organiser Convention on the Central European Exchange Programme for University Studies (CEEPUS III) (1149 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25294	We're coming to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Widmann. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25321	Mr President. High house! The CEEPUS-III Convention essentially makes it clear that there should be cooperation, as in the higher education field, for doctoral students, and that almost all costs will also be borne. It is also to be seen in the sense of internationality, mobility, but also in the sense of an EU-wide educational area. However – and now the hook comes along – the costs are not insignificant. Which countries are they talking about? – It’s about former East Bloc countries. [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] - Now I'm waiting for the ÖVP to finish the interlocutory debate. [[Abg. Rädler: That's the big one!]] - But I heard you too. It is a question of former Eastern Bloc countries, it is about Balkan countries. I should like to read briefly where this agreement is to apply: Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. What's the cost? – It will cost around €1.5 million in 2011 for another seven years, of which € 315,000 will cover administration alone, because the CEEPUS General Business Unit, the Secretariat, is located in Vienna. 1.2 million € go directly to the students. And if you convert this, then the around 1 100 scholarships are months, which we of course finance in the sense also for foreign students. I am of the opinion that if we save families in Austria, save students, save students when we come to colleges, in part we find the worst equipment available here, if in part, the study duration increases, if we have too few staff, if we have overcrowded hearing rooms, if we find drop-out rates of up to 80 percent at the WU Vienna, or if the proportion of students from abroad is already around 20 percent – the OECD figure is around 8 percent more, in our case by 12 percent – then we have done enough – I say once – development aid and also enough for internationality in Austria. That is why I say: enough paid! And I also say in the direction of FPÖ quite clearly and clearly: Austria first! That is, we first improve the study conditions here in Austria for our students, we suspend the program; and then we can talk about it again in a few years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25367	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25388	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have now listened very attentively to Mr Widmann and I think I am not hearing correctly. Austria first!, means to me that we are networking. The focus of Austria is that we are becoming part of the Danube Region Strategy. Promoting students in Austria means also strengthening the international relations of our universities together and enabling exchanges between the students. CEEPUS is such a network. Already 15 countries participate in this network. The special thing about CEEPUS, Mr Widmann, is that it covers not only EU Member States but also third countries and candidate countries. And there are future labour market opportunities. There are future potentials for our students in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you do not want to, then rule out the fact that Austrians are internationally active. 90 percent of the knowledge we have worldwide was created outside of Austria, and this space of knowledge – perhaps even more, colleague Van der Bellen – we want to open up and not shoot ourselves with spiritual, cultural and economic walls. [[the speaker laughs]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this mobility has in the past been the prelude to the European Union and it is today for the enlargement of the European Union. In particular, universities and educational institutions are those places where democracy is discussed, developed and supported in the countries in their implementation. Our students are learning from each other, some 30,000 students and teachers have already participated in this programme, almost every tenth of them from Austria, with stays in Central and Eastern Europe, that area of growth, which is not only cultural and historically important to us, but also one of the largest growth regions in our neighbouring countries. However, it is also about mutual recognition of qualifications, i.e. getting away from the fact that we only have the exchange, to the fact that we say it is about equivalent degrees. It is a matter of bringing mutual education, curriculum together and the years of hiking that were so popular in the Middle Ages in the craftsmanship, into the contemporary spirit of the modern university today and allowing me to study at different universities after a concerted curriculum and at the end to a degree that is at international level and that I have just looked beyond the edge of the plate. This is also a dialogue for peace. We can discuss military service, yes or no. However, we should definitely discuss how we can achieve peace. I would like to thank you for the fact that civil defence begins with education, training, research and cultural exchange. This is spiritual national defense. But this is also a co-operation that is much too rarely brought to the centre. Such programmes strengthen cooperation, overcome conflicts and allow our highly qualified representatives to be the knowledge ambassadors of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This promotes creativity, innovation, which promotes our country, which promotes our universities and our research institutions. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] To get to know the culture of the neighboring country, that is, to open up a wealth that surrounds us. The walls which we have mined now have to be equipped with corresponding bridges via the formation. Economy can only live and develop if people can come into contact with each other, work together, live together. CEEPUS makes a very, very important contribution to this, and I cannot believe that there are still colleagues here in this House who reject it and do not welcome it. But you still have time to think differently about it because of our contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25483	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25504	Ladies and gentlemen! The CEEPUS programme, which we are discussing now, has already been explained by my previous speakers. We consider it a useful programme that offers Austrian students an important contribution to international networking in the field of science. I am actually not surprised because we know it from the Committee, but I am very surprised and sorry that we cannot vote for this agreement unanimously. Mr Widmann, I think that – Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager has explained this sufficiently – the kind of international agreements that offer an exchange with countries, including the EU, for an important contribution from international networking and for purpose. The problem with foreign students at Austrian universities arises at a completely different point. This is due to the fact that as a small country we cannot afford to catch up with the students from Germany, who, in a much larger country, do not get a study place and claim study places in a small country. This is a problem in which we need a solution at European level, not from an anti-foreign reflex, but from a purely capacity problem, which, as I think, has been trying to find too little by your predecessors in recent years. I very much hope that, after you have come from a university that has been most affected in recent years, you know this problem well and appreciate the urgency of the problem and also the urgency of really starting a solution at European level. I think it is a good way that the current Vice-Cancellian Spindelegger and your predecessor have also addressed a solution. to find a balance between the opportunities of small and large countries in the EU. At any rate, the Social Democrats agree with this programme, and I regret that we cannot take this decision unanimously.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25549	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25571	Yes, Mrs Kuntzl, eh, but it will be decided, that is the main thing once. CEEPUS III is a good programme, Mr Widmann. Above all, I'm surprised you're totally overlooked: You have done so in your speech as if it was only about Austria making scholarships for incoming. – That is not true, the programme is based on reciprocity. Of the 14 countries participating in this programme, each, at least 100 – and if so, more – undertakes to make available in so-called residence months. Don't pretend to be Austrians, if they go to Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech Republic, Hungary and so on, they can't learn anything there, that's absurd! Even at the communist time, the technical-natural science disciplines at the Eastern Block universities were generally excellent. Meanwhile, the case of the Iron Curtain is 20 years ago, these universities have picked up, even in those subjects where they were not so good at the time. There have always been exceptions: Even at the communist time, for example, János Kornai was an excellent, internationally known economist in Budapest. Every student would have, as it were, licked his fingers after studying – so it is not. Apart from the economic policy arguments put forward here by Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager. It is in the most eminent Austrian interest that our people, too, spend months there, spend a year, complete a joint Master's or Doctor's degree. It is also planned to develop joint degree programmes, especially in the field of doctoral studies. These are excellent initiatives, which are also perceived by Austrian universities – and not only in the field of students, Mr. Widmann, but also in the field of teaching staff. It is therefore in the keenest Austrian interest to develop such programmes, to participate in them. Yeah, that costs a little money, too. Should be, this is well invested money! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25620	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25641	Mr President. High house! The pro arguments have been sufficiently communicated. I can only add in general that since the entry into force of the CEEPUS programme, more than 30 000 students and teachers have participated, including 2 500 – that is, more than 2 000! – students and teachers from Austria who have completed their study and teaching visits in Central, Eastern and Southern Europe within the framework of networks, universities and colleges. In this way, the Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the Initiative of the then Minister of Science Busek has contributed significantly to the development of mobility in this area. CEEPUS is Europe's largest regional programme to promote cross-border mobility. As an Austrian, I think we can be proud that we have done such pioneering work and have been involved in such a long-term process, because with CEEPUS, those countries also have a European perspective that cannot currently participate in the Erasmus programme. EU Member States, candidate countries and third countries cooperate as equal partners – so it is not possible in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The attractiveness of this programme also increases annually. Last year, my predecessor, Mrs Karl, signed the CEEPUS III Treaty in Montenegro, which is a further development of the programme. It is designed as a framework agreement and brings more flexibility. This new contract has a duration of seven years and is intended to create a stronger link between the fields of science and research in addition to the development of joint study programmes, in particular in the field of doctoral studies. A total of 6 000 scholarship months are available for the study year 2010/2011. So far, 486 students and teachers have come from local universities and colleges, most from Romania, Hungary and Poland. These three countries are also the most popular host countries of Austrian students and teachers. Austria also coordinates most networks in this programme, a total of 13 out of 55. In addition, we have the chairmanship of the Joint Ministerial Committee in 2011 to 2013. I would therefore ask you to agree to the planned further development of this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25699	The next item is Mrs Franz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25720	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria, of course, strives to expand its scientific and university location in its own country and to make it as attractive as possible. That is why we are making another important contribution under the CEEPUS mobility programme in order to meet this wish. When, in 1995 under our then Minister of Science Busek CEEPUS was initiated, there were only six founding members, namely Austria, Bulgaria, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia and Hungary; and now, as we have heard, this network has increased to 15 Member States, so that the entire south-eastern European area is now integrated. One wanted to implement increased mobility as well as the development of joint study degrees, and this was also very successful. That is why we are glad that we decide today CEEPUS III. It is not to be seen that there are few spirits here who cannot agree to this accession and prefer to quit – at a time when it is about sharing, networking with others and thereby also getting benefits for Austria and strengthening and improving the Austrian university location in the European area.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25759	As a provisional last item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate comes. Nice to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25780	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The importance of international cooperation in the field of higher education in Europe in particular shows, not least, the continued and great success of various study exchange programmes. Erasmus is certainly a special example. Thousands of students are expanding with these exchange programmes Semester for semesters their scientific, linguistic, but also cultural and not least social horizon. The success of CEEPUS is shown by the importance of the step towards the east and the south-east of Europe. CEEPUS is the exchange and scholarship programme for students and teachers in Central and South-East Europe, which has continued to grow on a very successful path since 1995. Since its inception, the number of CEEPUS member countries has steadily increased. Austria was responsible for the development of the CEEPUS III Treaty. From my point of view, this is very positive, not least because of the fact that the General Secretariat will be in Vienna. For the seven-year CEEPUS III programme, the Ministry foresees an investment of €1.5 million from its budget – one, as I believe, smart and good investment in a very hopeful area. Everything has already been very wide-ranging. I would like to take the opportunity to wish our new Federal Minister much success, strength and joy in the demanding but also promising work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25826	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Scientific Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1087 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[20:09:16]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2010/5 (III-125/1133 d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, Series B. 2010/13 (III-191/1134, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25879	We now come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. It is the first honourable Member to speak. Lap. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25908	Mr President. High house! Mr President of the Court of Auditors, admiration for your timing and for your appearance. We have already been really worried when calling up these agenda items and wondering where you are, but you have landed with your coming really elegant and precise. Welcome! [[Call:The Court of Auditors has left the Court of Auditors]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: He's got a cell phone!]] [[Abg. Grosz: He always has an art landing, the Lord... We already know him, we have been dealing with him for some time!]] Thank you very much for being able to appreciate this together with me; I am very pleased. The two reports we are discussing today have a wide range of topics: from a follow-up review of the merger of the pension insurance institutions of workers and employees, to the health reform, to slow travel routes and many different topics, all of which, in their detail and in their presentation of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, constitute a very good compendium and a very good basis for political responsibility. The follow-up review is an instrument recognised by the peer review report. It was shown that this is a very important instrument. Two reports in 2007 and 2008 have led the Court of Auditors to note that out of nine recommendations five have been implemented in full and two in part. It was defined on one side of the merger effort, which recalculated and presented personnel needs. There were guidelines for the sale of real estate. In the IT sector, there was a clear limitation of the tasks, and above all the different IT systems were merged into the two pension insurance institutions after the merger. It turns out that the work of the Court of Auditors has brought very positive results. In contrast to some colleagues from opposition parties who believe that the Court of Auditors' recommendations have not been implemented at all, we have a very good example here of compliance with the Court of Auditors' recommendations. A second area, which I would like to take a short time, concerns the health reform 2005 and since the comparison between Tyrol and Vienna. This is mainly about the duration and calculation of the treatment of guest patients in Austrian, speaking: in Tyrolean and Vienna hospitals. It turns out that, unlike the Tyroleans, the Viennans have a very efficient way of dealing. However, the Court of Auditors has stated that there is still a need for improvement in both federal states so that we or the health institutions can come to their money faster when visiting patients are treated in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25972	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e25994	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors examined the health reform 2005 in the light of the federal states of Tyrol and Vienna and examined the national health funds and overall health systems. The report clearly shows that there is a great need for reform. There are many weaknesses, shortcomings. Two countries were compared. Wür I believe that the result would be a bit more colorful and, as it were, more turbulent. There are many things that are used too little. Saving opportunities, which would actually be there, are simply not used. The Court of Auditors also makes it clear that it is difficult to compare key figures from the two federal states because the systems are different. Especially in the outpatient services there are performance-oriented billing models in Tyrol, whereas in Vienna these payments are carried out on a flat-rate basis. The Court of Auditors has shown a cost-absorbing potential of €300 million, but it has not been possible to determine how or at what time these €300 million should be achieved, so it has partly been very unprofessionally worked. Mrs Lapp has already mentioned the topic of foreign patients. Tirol has 42 million nights. There are outside positions of up to €70 million, especially in the case of foreign patients, if you have been tracking back the last seven or ten years. Of course, it takes a long time for these funds to flow. Tirol has about 36 percent of the total open exteriors. The Tyrolean local health insurance fund is constantly pressured to put in place measures or to create ways that this money can flow back faster – for medical costs, cures, medical transports, but also, of course, for the hospitals. As a result, the Court of Auditors has recommended binding agreements with the countries, e.g. with Italy. A model of advance payment schemes would also be superior, especially with those countries, from which – through tourism, through accidents, through leisure accidents – there are very many foreign patients. I would like to mention some of the Court of Auditors' recommendations. The Court of Auditors generally recommends a uniform model for outpatient treatment and uniform tariffs so that it can be compared. He also recommends that savings potentials be precisely defined – I have already said before – that content, extent, time reference and target amount should be clearly defined. In order to achieve greater efficiency, it is important, I believe, that there is a cooperation between countries in the control area of the health system in order to make better use of the synergies effects. The Court of Auditors also recommends the development of a single federal evaluation programme to ensure uniform evaluation targets throughout the country. The reform pool model should be a total contribution to improve efficiency. There have been models for this in the federal states of Vienna and Tyrol. Nevertheless, I believe it is important to make such reform models in the future. To this end, the Court of Auditors says quite frankly that it would not have to be remembered that it would be worth a lot if there were many small, manageable reform pool models. Overall, this report clearly shows that there is a need for reform in the health field, that we need a health cure, that there is a potential for savings. On the other hand, the report shows that high quality causes costs and that cost-effective measures need to be introduced. Finally, I am quite clear: It is true that we are dissociating between these two countries. But I think it is important, Mr President, that there is a follow-up test that you look at: What has been implemented in the meantime? Where can we find cross-border better models to increase efficiency? I think I can thank the Court of Auditors for showing that there is a need for action. In this sense it is, I mean, for all of us weight tig to continue the reform of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26066	The next item is the speech by Mr Kunasek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26087	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. First of all, I should like to thank you very much, also on behalf of our group, for the very extensive, detailed and interesting reports. In my speech, I would like to focus on a part, namely the ÖBB and the so-called slow-down points. “Langsähne” sounds somewhat unagitated as a concept, but is with great impact on passengers and therefore also responsible for the customer satisfaction of the ÖBB. However, the review in this report for the period from 2005 to 2009 shows us clearly that we have problems in the area of rail infrastructure. In the period mentioned above, a total increase of 65 percent or otherwise from 204 to 336 slow-driving points occurred. This is particularly a problem when it comes to slowing down in the high-level rail network, which also has a negative impact on the operation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that these slow travel points are of course also relevant to train delays, and in 2009 they were a total of 1.5 million minutes – you can convert them into hours and days. The slow down points were responsible for 422,000 minutes of train delays. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the field, the ÖBB needs to improve, it also needs to become more efficient – more efficient also because it was not the funds that were missing. On the contrary: At least € 1 billion a year has been used to reduce the number of slow travel points accordingly. However, the Court of Auditors criticises the use of these funds. This means for us – and that should also be the summation: Foresighting planning, timely investment, especially efficient use of resources and planned distribution, but of course, streamlining organizational processes is also a command of the hour. The ÖBB is required to implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations accordingly and to act in the interests of economic efficiency, but above all also of customer satisfaction.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26128	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26149	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! I have the right to follow up on the remarks of my previous speaker. The two reports before us have once again been made highly professional. The ÖBB is obviously a permanent topic in domestic policy – unfortunately, one has to say about it. The slow down points shed a significant light on the handling of the financial resources. I may be able to do a little extra for reasons of topicality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] – I know you don't like to hear that on your side. Delays – what does it look like with the customer-friendliness? – A ÖBB Catererer sells if one can believe media reports – and I do the finished goods to passengers. Unhandlerable ticket machines: As mayor, I constantly complain that these ticket machines are a burden. – But: Reaction null! The motto is: We'll just leave it the way it is! Or: Bonus payments for train managers. – If you think that a loss of €966 million occurred in 2008, and there are 50 percent bonus for the railway managers at the basic salary in 2009, then nobody understands that. 15 ÖBB managers now earn more than the Federal Chancellor of this Republic. Very, very disturbing for us is that if you ask the competent minister, Mrs Bures, you always hear: I'm not responsible for the operational business! – When I think about the Supervisory Board, I have to say: Mr Pöchhacker is apparently untouchable, and this is obviously only because he is a friend of Mr Faymann's Chancellor. Retirement provisions: That's not gonna happen anymore! How do you want to explain to the citizen, who constantly has to take a deep grip on his taxes, that on average you still retire seven years earlier at the ÖBB? The Court of Auditors really shows things sober. Until the last government reform, we have still had the hope that we have a State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Mr Lopatka, I am so sorry that you are no longer! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] At least you've been talking about things. Thank you for this – as a victim of the coalition peace – was: He has to leave, he's not wanted there anymore! So you can also understand when the Federal Chancellor says that this is an ideal case with the new Vice chancellor. I am so sorry that you, Mr Lopatka, no longer belong to this Federal Government. They were one of the very few hopes for us. The first speaker, Mrs Lapp, I should like to comment briefly on: They have said that there are many recommendations that are being implemented. – I lack any understanding of the fact that not every recommendation is implemented, because what the Court of Auditors points out is absolutely comprehensible and in the sense of an economic, economical administration. In this sense, thank you to the Court of Auditors, President Moser. It was highly professional again what you delivered here. Unfortunately, the hope is disappearing that the ÖBB with this Federal Government is still turning to a better place.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26219	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26241	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! We were already concerned today when you were not overdue that you might be making a silent protest with us that we always have the Court of Auditors as the last item on the agenda. This should change once, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not uninteresting what the Court of Auditors provides for reports. [[Admissibility with SPÖ and BZÖ.]] My two previous speakers have been involved in the slow travel routes. But I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kunasek and Mr Windholz, that you are not currently very often on the train. I regularly take the train from St. Valentin to Vienna and from Schwerberg to St. Valentin, and lately there are hardly any delays. The staff is highly motivated and friendly. So: Watch out for the achievements of the ÖBB! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: And then they sell game meat to the passengers!]] The game meat, Mr Grosz, is not the fault of the ÖBB. When the ÖBB still operated the service itself, there was no game meat. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this report, however, I have noticed – and this is actually surprising – that the money the Federal Government has made available for the maintenance of the railways, for the rehabilitation measures, has not been fully exhausted. I suspect that this might be due to the fact that the glorious 2003 ÖBB reform led to a two-way infrastructure, and these two actually had the problem of using the available money and using it for refurbishment. This has never happened before, and I have never read of it in a report on the Court of Auditors. The whole thing is not so fun, either, considering that one fifth of the existing rail infrastructure has already exceeded its technical life span. The following are still in the final analysis: There is a very short chapter on “Economic Limits of Maintenance”, which says, ladies and gentlemen, that the cost-benefit relationship, if it is not given, leads to a simple stop in trains. If I look at what the PRO BAHN chief, Mr Peter Haibach, has said, then I fully agree with him. I can quote him from the “profile”: "Since no one is committed to sustainable regional rail transport, the ÖBB will always proceed according to the same pattern. First, timetables are thinned, then there are more and more slow-track routes due to the lack of investment. Then stay off the passengers, stop the operation and replace it with buses.” As a miller, I know what it means: The line from Linz to Aigen-Schlägl is probably one that will fall victim to this approach. There's nothing more invested there. The Donauuferbahn is in Upper Austria God is still well preserved with the help of the state government, but only up to the national border. Purchased from there from the country of Lower Austria. That was good too. Before the country elections, it was promised to continue. ==References====External links== World Heritage! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this affects the rural regions, which affects the commuters, the students, the tourists, the return seekers. - But that doesn't matter! It's just set. This again means a cut in the rural region. And then we all wonder when people settle down there and get less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26295	The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26317	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) After the intensive ÖBB debate, I can make another report from the Court of Auditors on my subject, namely the report on major medical and technical equipment, with a special review in Lower Austria and Salzburg. Which devices are meant? – You all know, these are the CT and MRT devices, i.e. computer and magnetic resonance tomography devices, the heart catheter workplaces and the positron emission tomography devices. How many devices are we talking about in Austria, and how was the development? – In Austria, we had 249 CTs in 2008, which is 20 percent more than in 1997. The number of MRI devices has doubled over this period, we have a total of 150. The number of cardiac catheter jobs has increased from 31 to 44. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria, together with Belgium and Italy, is in the top European field, and I can add that Germany has, for example, converted to a million inhabitants about half of MRI and CT devices. What has the Court of Auditors found? - I'm allowed to deal with a few points. On the one hand, the Court of Auditors has said that in all six large-scale equipment types, the actual stock of equipment is 30 to 40 percent higher than the ideal stock and is therefore superior. It is also interesting to note that, between April 2005 and June 2009, the country-specific device limits were changed eight times. It is understandable to me if the Court of Auditors criticises that neither sustainable planning nor time-consuming planning is recognizable. In addition, the Court of Auditors complains that the data and statistics were not suitable to assess the efficiency, performance and utilisation. Why? – Because unclear terms and information as well as various counting methods allow interpretation spaces of the large-scale device plan. In my view, it is annoyed that various methods of counting hardly or at all allow serious comparability – a situation that we unfortunately need to see not only in medical and technical large-scale devices, but also in many other areas. It's high time we made the comparability. In my opinion, the networking of the intra- and extra-mural area is also important, i.e. the sharing of large-scale devices from both areas. As a positive example, the Court of Auditors report leads the Celle am See Hospital. A settlement agreement concluded with the main association of the Austrian social security funds led to increased utilization of the MRI device and created additional revenue for the hospital. For me, an example worthy of imitation. Ladies and gentlemen! Lack of planning, lack of coordination, lack of utilization will lead to costs that we can no longer afford. As mayor, I can tell you that my community already has more than 20 percent of its financial resources to spend on the retirement of the hospitals. For me, there is no way of optimizing expenditure, and for me there is no way past the implementation of the Court of Auditors recommendations, because we want to be able to achieve medical and technical developments in the future, and we want to provide the people with the best possible medical quality in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that there has been a cross-border cooperation between Upper Austria and Lower Austria in this year. Head of State Dr. Pühringer and Landeshauptmann Deputy Sobotka as Hospital Officers agreed to a cooperation agreement for the nuclear medical care of the clinics Amstetten, Amstetten-Mauer and Waidhofen at the Ybbs on the one hand and the Landesnervenklinik Wagner-Jauregg in Linz on the other – a win-win situation for both federal states, because, on the one hand, the number for cancer and neurology patients in the Wagner-Jauregg hospital is the same studies can be increased from 1 200 to 1 500 in the future and because, on the other hand, Lower Austria can save around 2 million euros of investment and the corresponding follow-up costs. From my point of view, a right path, recommended for imitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26377	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26398	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Five Court of Auditors reports on how they could not be different, plus three follow-up reviews. Mrs. Lapp! Since you've already tried to follow-up as a prophetess, I can't let you down as an opposition speaker. You said the opposition meant it wasn't implemented. So far, no one has said this about these three follow-up checks. The first concerns the merger of pension insurance institutions. The Court of Auditors notes that of nine recommendations, five are complete, two are partial, one not verifiable and one is not yet implemented. – That’s not bad, because the opposition doesn’t need too much to slander. On the “Volkstheater” society: out of eleven revised recommendations five fully, four partially and only two not implemented. - It's not that bad either. Good! On the subject of movement education in schools, I do not leave you hanging now, as one can really say, that is a topic where the Court of Auditors – and this is also a merit of these really good Court of Auditors reports – once again put their fingers in the wounds of the administration, which has put fingers in the wounds in the case of the Ministry of Education, because in schools there are obviously no shortages not only of the PISA disciplines of reading, mathematics, natural sciences, but also of sports, Mrs. Lapp. The Court of Auditors criticises that almost nothing has been implemented. There are still no trained primary teachers for the field of movement and sport at the public schools. As a father, I can tell you that I would be right if there were a bit of a sport training for teachers at all in the folk school, then you don't need additional priority teachers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Many untested gym teachers teach at the primary schools. In Lower Austria, about 40 percent of sports teachers do not have a corresponding teaching qualification. There are still no verifiable education standards, let alone any evaluations. It is therefore not helpful if we save on the training of teachers and do not provide the schools with sufficient sport lessons. This not only hurts me as a politician, but it hurts me as a threefold father whose children are really sporty. So the Court of Auditors is putting their fingers back in the wounds. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your excellent work.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26451	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26474	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I have chosen from the report, which has already been said enough – and I just want to underline this – a point that also concerns Salzburg, namely the Limberg II pumping plant in Kaprun. In studying the documents, I have come up with a few thoughts about what I would like to ask questions, Mr President. It is in itself a very positive report, ultimately with some suggestions, that is not a question. On the one hand comes the day that a reduction in construction time of seven months may be expected. If you know where this construction site is, you have to say that's actually a good year. We can only congratulate you on this. However, if one reads that the geological conditions allow for a seven-month saving, then I wonder, because that is not the first power plant there, whether it is really so surprising that the construction time will be seven months shorter, or whether one may not have installed a certain security in the planning and calculation. At the same time, it can be noted that there has been an increase in the load of rocks containing asbestos. That's what I'm asking myself: Was that not the case at the beginning of the construction of the first works? Could that not be expected? That's a question whose answer I'm interested in. Otherwise, of course, it would be important for the future if research were to be carried out even more efficiently. You can't plan something at €450 million on the one hand, and then it turns out that there are conditions that are expensive to the construction project, because you have to spend €17 million on the use of protective measures alone – asbestos is dangerous. At the same time, however, construction time is reduced by seven months with the reference to geological conditions. Is the Court of Auditors able to question this in such a way that credible answers can also be given? Otherwise, of course, the whole thing would be positive, that is not a question. But it would be important if planning were to be even more efficient in the future and it would not be necessary for the Court of Auditors to point out such things. It would therefore be very important for me to know whether or not this is taken into account. Was it surprising? Or is there no more documents from this period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26511	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26533	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a Salzburger, I have of course also chosen the same topic, which is the examination of the pump storage power plant Kaprun II. My colleague Stefan Prehauser has already said that it is basically a very positive report, although there are some questions. But all in all, the construction costs have been met at around €405 million and were also approved by the Supervisory Board. Overall, however, the material quality, I think, has caused 16 million € in additional costs. There are some recommendations from the Court of Auditors, for example, as regards tendering practices. This may not be quite the case here. so strict criteria are applied for the bidders so that the bidder circle could be a greater one. A number of other aspects are also listed here, such as, for example, occupational medical arrangements, perhaps to be predetermined. But in total, it is a very important and important investment for us and, above all, for the region there. We all know that pumped storage power plants can convert surplus energy into renewable energy, which is very important for the general economy. I would like to see a gap between these 380 kV lines in my federal state and the third pump storage power plant in Kaprun soon reach, because the Kaprun mountain region is particularly suitable for this. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors and its staff for this very factual and clear report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26584	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26605	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the Pramtal Water Association. The water association was selected on the basis of a random sample. This procedure also includes legal entities which would not be examined in accordance with the otherwise risk-oriented selection procedure, for example because of their low level of conduct. The Court of Auditors shall apply this procedure in order to strengthen its preventive and advisory effect. The Pramtal Water Association belongs to eight municipalities in the Upper Austrian Inn district. The purpose of the review was to assess the conduct of the Water Association as well as the fulfilment of the association's purpose. The measures to be taken by the Water Association concerned the planning and implementation of flood protection projects and maintenance measures. The measures were adopted with the support of the Grieskirchen Water District. The Court of Auditors was critical of the fact that the water association entered into individual expenditure or commitments which were not in line with the purpose of the association. In addition, the conduct showed formal defects. Accounting was essentially conducted properly. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for their preventive and advisory work.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26643	The next speaker was Mr Tadler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26664	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The two reports 1133 and 1134 of the Supplements refer to what my predecessors from Salzburg have already pointed out, especially those concerning my federal state of Salzburg. The first point concerns, as Mr Prehauser has already said, the hydro power, where it is more expenditure on the construction of the Lim pump storage plant. Mount II came to Kaprun. In the construction of this power plant, no consideration was given to the asbestos pollution in the rock layers, although – and now a small Bonmot, Mr President – a textbook from 1802 already pointed out the flexible asbestos. Although the asbestos burden was corrected in the truest sense of the word, this caused additional costs of, as we have already heard, € 17 million. Similarly, the invitation to tender for the construction of Limberg II did not take into account the avalanche discharges, although it would also have to be known in Hydro Power that in multi-year high mountain construction sites avalanche discharges are of course also standard. Again caused the cost of saying and writing half a million €. I ask here: What about the budget responsibility? They're professionals at work. In the second part – as colleague Singer has already praised the people from Zell am See – it is about the use of the medical-technical large-scale equipment, as it is about the MRIs. And here's a little Bonmot, President of the Court of Auditors. Our state councillor Erika Scharer has also acquired several MRIs, namely two – these are not cheap small devices, as we have heard – and one of them is in the basement for research purposes. Should we just take note of that? Finally – Mr Steindl has already pointed out –: Hopefully, there are more correct budgetary assumptions for the construction of Limberg III. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26706	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26728	Dear President! High house! I would like to refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the slow travel of the ÖBB. The purpose of the review was to assess the extent to which the measures adopted by the ÖBB infrastructure companies and the use of resources for maintenance measures were appropriate in order to avoid or reduce these slow-off points. The main points of the Court's criticism were that the ÖBB's rail network is partly outdated, that delays have increased considerably, especially in passenger transport, and that the funds provided by the Federal Government have been sufficient for repair, but have been partially misused. And I would like to mention a few details about this use of resources. As has already been said, the lack of money is not the case, according to the Court of Auditors. Thus, from 2005 to 2009, the Federal Government has provided a maximum of €1 billion annually for the operation of the ÖBB rail infrastructure and has also allowed annual infrastructure investments between €1.3 billion and even €2.1 billion. However, in the years 2005 to 2008, ÖBB’s infrastructure companies had invested far too little money in the repair and renewal of the facilities, which was criticized by the Court of Auditors. On average, €125 million had been invested for the repair, and according to the Court of Auditors, € 147 million would have been optimal and €333 million had been spent on renewal, but € 560 million would have been needed. Positive – and here I want to praise those responsible in the ministry, but also at the ÖBB – has been the reaction. This Court of Auditors report - and should be so - has been considered helpful, as has been pointed out by the Committee of the Regions. Blem and the investment has already increased significantly. In 2009, for example, €564 million was already invested in the renewal of facilities and by 2014 all the roadway-related slowfare routes in the core network will be rehabilitated. That is, I think, a positive statement. I hope, however, that these long-haul routes will not only be rehabilitated or removed in the core network, but also on sideways. Thank you again to the officials and to the Court of Auditors, who in turn produced a profound report. The key statements have been presented and are now largely implemented. That's what it's supposed to be. It is a report on the Court of Auditors which makes sense and which, of course, has found its impact in its positive completion. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26770	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schickhofer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26791	Mr President. In the follow-up review, you have added a very important importance to the education of movement in schools. I believe that the education of movement is also a very central issue in our education policy. Unfortunately – and this has already been criticized in the original report – there have been hourly cuts in the field of movement and sport of up to 5 percent since 2001. I think it's very central that we counter this. There are also some measures to be taken. We know that the lack of physical activity leads to the occurrence of obesity, obesity and many chronic diseases. That is, we need a good exercise education, especially in order to improve the health status, but also the physical well-being of children and young people. The World Health Organization has defined the objectives that adults should exercise at least 30 minutes a day but children 60 minutes of sports, and I believe that school must also make an important contribution to this. Finally, the non-exercise of sports causes the most cost to the health system. I think the objectives of movement education are relatively clearly defined: that students should be promoted individually, that weaknesses should be reduced, that the ability to move should be promoted in its diversity, that there are also rules of play in team sports, that are to be observed – that is very important for life – that the team spirit is developed and that a certain will for performance is also developed. What is certainly true of criticism is – and to implement it is important in all areas of life – that there is a need for clear targets, but also for an attempt to make them measurable in any form. There is an own working group together with the University of Salzburg to establish these standards throughout Austria and implement them at all schools. What is important – there have been some very, very important measures on the part of the Ministry of Education: The education of movement is particularly important in the afternoon care of all day schools. I think it is important in the field of school sports weeks that young people have the opportunity to experience the diversity of sports both in summer and in winter, even though they might not be able to afford it in the family association. A very important goal is the increased networking of schools with the sports clubs. Here the Austrian communities can make an important contribution and provide it with the maintenance of the sports facilities. But above all, this cooperation with the clubs is quite, very important, because it should be attractive and we should motivate the children to exercise sports in the afternoon. The Ministry of Education has also set up three initiatives: “Moving children healthy”, for which sports professionals are qualified for teaching with children – also an important suggestion from the Court of Auditors – and under the motto “Health & Munter” and “Klug & Fit” it has set priorities in teacher education in the primary school and has also established a corresponding movement guide for the primary school. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that the Ministry of Education has put in place important measures, but the education of movement should, at least, continue to be a priority in future policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26853	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26874	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that it makes sense to repeat everything that my previous speaker has already said to the reports, but I would like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and his team for the examinations. In part, it was also criticised that the Court of Auditors' recommendations are not implemented in all respects, although in part, as has been said, very, very many. I would just like to say: I think these tests are important, that is quite the same in the private sector. We know that the Federal Government and the Länder as well as the individual institutions are required to deal with these criticism points as best as possible, but we also know quite well that it is not possible to implement all the Court of Auditors' recommendations, even if they are entitled to do so, because in practice and on paper there and there, there are really differences and that is not all that I know from our businesses. But we know that these recommendations are important, that they save a lot of money, that they are forward-looking. We also know that there are more diligent companies that do this, that the federal government is implementing it relatively strongly, we know that many countries are following the recommendations very strongly, but we also know that some countries are a bit sloppy again. Nevertheless, it is important that these Court of Auditors reports are taken very, very seriously, and not only in the language, but also in the implementation. As I said, Mr President of the Court of Auditors: Thank you and your team very much! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26907	The next speaker on these agenda items is Mr Magistrate. Reported by Kogler at 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26929	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Thank you very much for these reports III-125 and III-191 of the supplements with usual good quality. If, as our professional members do, you really kneel, you can see that. I would like to make two specific points for two reasons: large-scale equipment planning in the medical field on the one hand and the long-distance public transport stations of others on the other, because this is also about the underlying fundamental political issue, which could or should interest you here as well; no longer at this time, but I say it to you anyway. For large-scale equipment planning: I think it is good that the positive approaches – the example of Zell am See has been mentioned – will also be extended, but in the light of the background, that there can be a lot to get out here on the long and on the average. It is quite clear that if we do not intervene precisely in the planning of health care – in reality, we have to do that – and perhaps in the future we also have to regulate the skills even more precisely, the cost explosions that actually exist do not get under control. That is why this suggestion is so important there, because many areas that have been examined are doubting alone because even within the federal states the optimum was not achieved. We are not yet talking about what we have at all for a strange position in health care, namely that every country can still do a lot extra and that the superior planning is hardly grasping. This is still partly due to the resistance of the national leaders. And there we are again at the reform project. If I read in the media today that the Minister of Finance has somehow meant yesterday that she wants to push administrative reform efforts to the longer bank – for this is always the case – then I see the issue disappear from the agenda again, because it does not promise anything good. Just because their predecessors have failed, among other things, the new ones should not want to do this at all. But health care is such a central area where we simply have to manage differently. This is not at all a question of restrictions on benefits for patients, quite the contrary, it is simply and touching whether I can get out much more with the same money or at least the same performance, with less money then, however. An essential task of politics! – Yes, yes, the ÖVP intermediate call is suspicious. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] Not from you specifically, because I can appreciate you, but dangerous. Health and ÖVP: Dangerous! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] Because when it comes to it, it has still been so that your national leaders have wanted to defend the power that lies in there – just as it is in the school sector – because of the fact that party political influence can also be asserted quite clearly and well here. Unfortunately, it is. But that is the task of the opposition to point out. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the long-distance public transport points: I think a lot of things happen to me, regardless of the findings, and I mean, one thing was quite clear: that some routes are obviously in some cases deliberately starved out. On the other hand, you can ask yourself: Yes, if there is so little need, why haven't they been shut down for a long time? But that's almost the same. Mr Gaßner, I agree with your analysis, which you have made here. But either we confess to a public transport, which also deserves the name – the whole operation, of course, works under national cost consideration, because it is far from the end of the business. We know how much traffic is cross-subsidized by the public sector, and this is still linked to environmental damage for the future generation. One will have to confess to public transport once, if we give here – or especially on Sundays elsewhere – climate protection speeches or speeches on transport safety or also on environmental protection in general. But it has to be organized efficiently – I look at Mr Lopatka – that is clear. But the intentional strategy is to lead some routes in such a way that as a passenger you become quite aggressive. I believe that I am one of the few Members who is still on the sidewalks. At least every now and then I drive from St. Johann in the Haide, from the district of Hartberg, here to work. – You should join us once before you yell at it stupidly. [[Abg. Neugebauer: A nostalgia driver!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: How long are you going?- Oh, my God!]] It's really adventurous what's going on there. In the meantime, one would like to get out and swing on the bike, because then one is still faster on a few sections of the route. Sometimes even the joggers catch us up next door. It can't be! Now I'm seeing Alexander. Van der Bellen. He used this train once a year ago, because he was visiting the eco centre in Hartberg at the time. You're almost prevented from the sheer survival when you go there, because there's nothing going on, you don't get any water, nothing. So you get really scared. Thus, one will not be able to bind the customers, so one will still drive out those who still exist. That is obviously the intention. I'm telling you something very different: Then we should sit down and say: Okay, we're just going to do the Westbahn – by the way, I'm not talking about the South Railway anymore, because you also have the feeling that it's an organized slowway, but on two tracks. Then you have to say, we're mostly turning around, that's our concept. We'll take a couple more buses and that's it. But you don't do that either, and that's the tricky thing about it. Because either – or. I mean, there is only a general economic view and no commercial account. It should then be efficient within the company, perhaps there should also be more competition. Yes, we can talk about it, we may even have to. It is long enough that the ÖBB itself has not been well organized. We don't need to talk about that. But this question of principle must be asked, which must be answered. Otherwise, we'll save ourselves the speeches out here. I am now saving myself my further remarks. Good evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e26998	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e27020	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking you for the positive words that these reports have also found in you. However, I would also like to take the opportunity to point out that the Court of Auditors has today presented the federal accounts – as you know, the figures of the 2010 budget execution. The figures show that, among other things, net financial debt has grown to € 186 billion, the public debt level has now reached € 205 billion and the liabilities amount to € 129 billion. This means that a deficit of around €25 billion was generated alone in 2009 and 2010. €9 billion of operational tasks were financed by loans. At the same time, total debt has increased by €44 billion over the last five years alone. These figures should only indicate that it is necessary to carry out reforms and to raise any potential in order to ensure funding in the health field in the future. If you look at the reports that are on the agenda today in connection with the health reform 2005 or with medical and technical devices, you see that there is a lot of potential and a lot of money is being spent without adequate planning without sufficient quality being ensured and without ensuring that the resources, the resources actually used, are actually used in such a way that the utilization is also given. However, I would also like to point out that there is still an integrated supply planning and supply planning in the field of health financing – a measure already envisaged in the framework of health reform 2005. That is to say, the whole health sector would have to be considered, the stationary area, the established area, the rehabilitation area and the care sector. In this area, however, it would also be necessary to provide a transparent and comprehensive presentation of the funding of the fund hospitals, because this would only allow optimal use of funds. It would be necessary to make the regional structural plans health in such a way that they are actually comparable and that one sees where resources are needed and where deficiencies and oversupply are given. In the case of medical devices, it would be necessary to carry out a planning which, on the one hand, makes it possible to determine the utilization, but at the same time allows cooperations to be established and to know what the effort is in the area. The basics or recommendations are on the table. It would therefore be necessary to implement the reforms. That they are necessary not only shows the budgetary figures of the past, but also the future trends outlook 2010 to 2015. It is expected that from 2010 to 2015 the debt will increase by around €44 billion, as it increased by €44 billion in the previous five years from 2006 to 2010. That's a signal that we need reforms. We can't move her. The fact that we have opportunities shows the reports on the agenda today. I hope that, as in all other areas, the Court of Auditors will be able to win you as a partner in order to bring the reforms on track so that the past does not refresh the future, which could be the case. If we do not make reforms, there is a danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e27058	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs wish to conclude? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-125 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-191 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:07:37]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-04-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00102_d7e27113	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1507/A(E) to 1513/A(E) were made at today's meeting. Questions 8318/J to 8361/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 29. April 2011, 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. This meeting is closed.
