ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e4394	The meeting was opened. The Official Protocol of the 112. Meeting of 6. In July 2011, the European Parliament's Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Johann Maier, Gessl-Ranftl, Großruck, Tamandel, Dr. Königshofer, Themessl, Mag. Jarmer, Mag. Honey and Ing. Lugar. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e4428	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs Dr. Wolfgang Waldner. [[11:08:06]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e4464	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e4598	I announce that the meeting will be held live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from TW 1 to the end of the meeting. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e4617	Before entering the agenda, I would like to inform the House that Mr Graf has requested that the Scientific Committee report on Mr Graf's motion for a resolution 1596/A(E) concerning ‘the country of origin principle’ be limited to 21. ==References== There is the desire of five Members to hold a brief debate on this deadline request. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e4638	The debate on points 1 to 8, 10 to 14, 17 to 20, 21 and 22, 23 to 26, 27 and 28, 29 and 30, 31 to 34, 35 to 40, 41 and 42, 43 to 57 and 58 to 61 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e4662	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 98 minutes, FPÖ 88, Green 77 and BZÖ 74 minutes. For the duration of the TV transmission by ORF 2 to 1 p.m., the following Rules of Procedure were agreed: A round of speakers with 8 minutes each, a member of government SPÖ 8 minutes, a round of speakers with 6 minutes each, a member of government ÖVP 6 minutes, a round of speakers with 5 minutes each – thus a total of 109 minutes. The number of speakers is determined by the size of the group. The President-in-Office of the Council shall, before the beginning of the last round of speakers, distribute the remaining time in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly in the television era. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television transmission in ORF 2. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure to limit the speaking time of the honourable Member to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:11:06]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1208, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Federal Constitutional Law, the Bundespflegegeldgesetz, the Crime Sacrifice Act, the Poststructural Act and the Federal Disability Law (Pfleggeldreformgesetz 2012) (1287 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 118/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on measures to ensure care (1288, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1326/A(E) by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on comprehensive improvements in the field of care (1289, e.g.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 119/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, concerning measures to provide care for those in need of care (1290, e.g.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the annual valorization of the care allowance (1291 d.a.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 120/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in relation to the limitation of the duration of the care allowance procedure (1292, e.g.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1250/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, on the development of a new assessment procedure to determine the need for care (1293 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motion for a resolution 1251/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues on the unfair treatment of persons in need of care and their families (1294 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e4809	We come to points 1 to 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mrs Csörgits. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e4839	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to a good social and health policy, in Austria, we are in the happy situation that our population is getting older and more and more mature and fit. [[Abg. Scheibner:... you responsible for it?]] Sometime then, however, it is usually so that older people need care, and there it is important, crucial and necessary that they receive excellent care. Currently, ladies and gentlemen, there are 442,000 people in Austria who receive care money, and a total of 303 are responsible for the treatment of the care allowance. This will change with today's day. We are going to decide today a large, huge administrative reform, yes, I want to say that it is the biggest administrative reform of the last decades, and we can all be very, very proud of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What does that mean? – Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Care Money Reform Act will regulate a new carrier division. With 1. In January 2012, the federal care providers will be taken over by the federal government, and in the future there will be only more than 8 decision-makers instead of 303. This means that care schemes are carried out much faster, more efficient and uniform. What does this mean for care providers? – Here I would particularly like to address the spectators: Very, very important to me, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you that nothing will change for all those people who already receive care money today. And if you have recently applied for a care allowance, it is not necessary to make one again. Nothing changes for you. Something will change for those people who start from the 1st century onwards. A request was made in January 2012. In the future, as I have already said, a smaller part of the administration is responsible. It is also important to stress that this administrative reform will also reduce the duration of the application. That is, despite many efforts, it was so that it lasted up to 94 days from the date of the application, and here there will be a reduction to about 57 days. This is very good for all those people who are in the situation of getting care money. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this administrative reform needs a constitutional provision, because it will bring about a re-examination of competence. And we need a constitutional provision in this House, thanks to our legislation. We have already negotiated this law and many other laws, which we are adopting today, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and we have found that the deadline until 2014, which is provided for in the Government's proposal, is not majority. First of all, I should like to be very happy about this and, second, I would also like to thank very much for the fact that the representatives of the federal states have distanced themselves from the original deadline until 2014 and thus released the way for the administrative reform and, above all, for the care money package as a whole. In addition to the administrative reform, €685 million will also flow into the care funds by 2014. A huge, excellent improvement! Thank you very much, very much, ladies and gentlemen in the federal states for giving yourself this back! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To ensure that all this becomes official, I have also been happy to take over the order to submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is very technical, but it is very, very important for us, because I can now also be very pleased and thank you very much also to the colleagues of the Green and BZÖ Group, who are now also giving their approval to this bill. Thank you very much for the good negotiations and thank you very much for giving your support to this very important reform template. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dolinschek]] What is a little sad to me is that, although we have also conducted good negotiations with the Freedom Party, the liberals are unfortunately unable to confess to this bill. I'm very sorry. But perhaps in the course of this discussion there are still some suggestions and perhaps still a rethinking, because you are also among those parties that repeatedly call for reform. Today, you would have the opportunity not only to decide on a reform but also to improve the situation of the people who receive care benefits in Austria. What is the situation of the people who receive care benefits in Austria? – To this end, I should like to point out that the majority of those persons, 58 percent of caregivers, are taken care of at home, mainly by family members. And especially this area of people who are being cared for at home should benefit the €685 million I have already mentioned. These funds are intended and will mainly run into mobile and outpatient care. This means that those people who are at home on the one hand are given the opportunity to be at home perhaps even longer because a corresponding mobile offer is provided. It means that family members who do excellent work in connection with care are also relieved. It also means creating jobs in this area. That means that this measure has many, many benefits, and I am therefore very happy about it and very proud that we will decide today on this very important care package. Many thanks to all those who have contributed! Thank you very much for the cooperation of the Ministry and the Minister! I'm very happy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e4928	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e4949	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is not only one of the most beautiful countries in the world, we also have an excellent health and social system. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Today there is a solution for the care on the table. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a big step in the administrative reform, in the care allowance, and under the next item on the agenda, the financing of care for the coming years will also be ensured. With this care package, we react with additional financial means to the demographic development – the age pyramid – and make the care system easier, more transparent and efficient. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What do we change with this reform law when it comes to care? In Austria, a total of 440 000 people receive care. That's 5.1% of the population. We have the highest percentage in this area compared with the other OECD countries, where the average is 2.3 percent. In Germany, for example, 2.8 percent of the population have care benefits. We spend €2.4 billion on this care money, which is 2 billion for federal care providers – that is 368,000 people – and the rest for 74,000 people who are still drawing national care benefits from one of the nine federal states. This division is combined with this law. That is, the Landespflege is transferred to the federal government. Who's in charge of Landespflege? Ladies and gentlemen, they are retired and younger people with disabilities. A total of 280 auditing and paying agencies are responsible for these 74 000 people – an almost inconceivable number! – and these 280 carriers currently carrying out the assessment, reclassification and disbursement of the care allowance of Stages 1 to 7 will be merged. We are practically creating a simplification of 303 leading and auditing bodies at eight points. This reduction is a major administrative reform, which is truly supportive, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There are currently 23 carriers in the Federation. We will also simplify this, so that, as I said, eight carriers remain. This will make the care money process faster, more uniform and more efficient. This administrative reform, however, not only reduces the bodies and uniformity between the Federal Government and the Länder, but we also implement the Court of Auditors' proposals and make savings in law and law in countries and communities. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer briefly to the second part of this care package, which will be dealt with under the next item on the agenda, because it can be seen as a package and has also been negotiated as a package. The care fund will be installed – with €685 million until 2015. Two thirds of this €685 million will be spent by the Federal Government and one third by the countries and municipalities. Care funding, ladies and gentlemen, is thus secured for the coming years, and we are acting in the interests of those concerned. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We thus give safety to the caregivers and the caring family. Let me briefly mention the following, ladies and gentlemen: Currently, pension insurance contributions are being made for 8 000 caregivers, which we decided here in Parliament two years ago – an important measure! – and more than 80 percent of all care providers are cared for and cared for at home. Let me say a thank you at this point, especially to the caring relatives who make a very, very valuable contribution to our society. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] We also give safety to employees who are nurses who are active in the field of care, as mobile helpers, as qualified staff. As Chairman of the Board of Works of the Red Cross in Upper Austria, I am concerned that I should also like to thank the more than 40 000 employees who work in the care sector throughout Austria. We also give them a guarantee for the future with these laws. Last but not least: We also relieve the financiers in this matter. The main beneficiaries of the care are our communities, and we are also taking a step towards their discharge. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is your own agenda, the care fund!]] The cost increases will be covered by 2015 and this is a very important concern for us, especially in the sense of the Austrian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about financial security, and a large administrative reform is also being carried out in the field of care. Four parties will vote in favour of this Care Money Reform Act, and I would also like to thank all those who have contributed. Today's decision-making began months ago with the national social partners and also at the national conference, and I am particularly concerned to thank the chairman of the national conference, which was responsible for the first half of 2011 and whose responsibility is that this law can be present today, namely the Upper Austrian head of state Josef Pühringer, very warmly for his excellent work, which could also bring about this solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I do not want to mention – Mrs Csörgits has pointed out – that, as it were, we also held after-negotiations with the countries at the last minute, and I would also like to thank the head of state Sausgruber, who has really opened the way for the future, that this reform project cannot be limited, but can simply be implemented. I thank all the heads of state, especially the head of state Sausgruber. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Burgstaller!]] Of course, I would also like to thank our Minister of Social Affairs, who led the negotiations, which are responsible for this area as Minister of State and which has carried out this project with a lot of wisdom and also foresight. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh! Wisdom!]] Mr. Federal Minister, thank you too. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But I would also like to thank the two finance ministers involved. Sepp Pröll conducted the negotiations at the time, and Maria Fekter brought her to an end. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the social speakers here in Parliament – with all the social speakers, especially our committee chairman Csörgits, but above all with Mr Oellinger and Mr Haubner, who, in today's decision, can express that, with regard to this important care money reform law, this administrative reform, four parties express that we are a common and an important concern for further development in care. I would particularly like to thank the Greens and the BZÖ for their approval of this law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Bring Austria forward, ladies and gentlemen, this is the motto that we feel during this week of the session – in the local panel solution, in the Ecostrom Act and now also in the care package. We act in the interests of our people and for the people. I would also ask the FPÖ to give its approval to these important projects.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5069	The amendment previously tabled by Mr Csörgits and Mr Wöginger is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5130	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5151	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is already a somewhat risky company, which is now being run by the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP in this House, of which you can also hear in various interviews on land, landab and in hundreds of thousands of euros of ads. If you then think and announce that the care situation in Austria is sustainable, then this is a very, very risky company, because you weigh people in a completely false security – apart from saying that the hundreds of thousands of euros you have spent on it, be it at the level of magistrates or whether it is financed by the Ministry of Finance, would have been much better off with the caregivers themselves, whom you have taken away this money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are the ones from SPÖ and ÖVP who, through difficult access to the first two care benefits levels alone, keep the caregivers away € 140 million by 2014. And then make yourself up and say that you have provided a sustainable solution of care! This is a joke, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] People would have more of this money than of the 20 thank you who have now spoken in anointing words. We liberals say: It would have been nice, ladies and gentlemen, if the care had been assured. It would have been necessary, because I can already remind you that after a phase of absolute refusal and the ignorance of this problem – we have no care problem in Austria, it has always been said – a second phase has occurred, which is that we have set up a red and black permanent construction site in this area, that a provisorium will replace the next one somewhere, and that problematic and windshield solutions as you have already presented them will be greatly celebrated by you. I can only remind you of the 24-hour care and the so-called self-employed scheme, which is, in fact, a buffer from the front to the back, where there will be a lot more to the caregiver. Ladies and gentlemen, from our liberal point of view, both the caregivers and the caregivers deserve a solution, and if I address this, I speak first and foremost of Austrian citizens – hüben and over! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we say our money for our leech, that's what it means: Our care money for our caregivers! With the law you're getting there today, you're taking a different direction. – I'm still going on that, ladies and gentlemen! - Go, you don't have to get upset! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] I agree with you that there are some things in there that make sense. It's being. That's right. It has been very useful to reduce this to a few places and simplify the administration. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wenninger.]] – Yes, I know that the colleague in the back sometimes needs a little longer to hear things, but that’s why I hope everyone else here in the House won’t be able to stop. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This reduction and these administrative simplifications make sense. We can also give this our approval and will also signal this by our behaviour in the second reading. But you have created an unwholesome mixed culture in this law, and I will also tell you why we cannot agree at third reading. Something else is interesting: Mr Wöginger, who is now making himself here and proclaiming this as the final conclusion of wisdom, has, until a few days ago, announced the exact opposite as the final conclusion of wisdom. He has said that this is living federalism, that is the involvement of the federal states, and there is a financial compensation at all, and if you do not limit all these administrative reform measures by the end of 2014, you act unscrupulously and irresponsibly. Now you've scratched the curve again. This law applies overnight. – The immediate opposite applies. This is also a problem of your credibility, because, of course, many people are asking themselves because the Austrian population is wondering if this could not be the case in other areas too, that in fact the opposite is true of what you are constantly telling here. I only call Greece such a big topic, where we can assume that this principle is true. But please, ladies and gentlemen, after all: In this context, our main criticism point was also another one, because you, ladies and gentlemen, make a fatal mistake once again with this law which you are now setting in motion. Once again, they contribute to an attack on the Austrian social system. They thus ensure and contribute to the erodement of our system of non-citizens. This law, which you are setting out to do, is essentially a clear example of the fact that what you are praising as a European social union, where you are talking about a great relationship, where you are talking about a great balance of benefits and claims, is in reality an instrument where Austrian money and Austrian benefits run out of our country, like from a shaky level. That is what is behind this European social union, which you so strongly promote, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And it doesn't bother you when it comes to family benefits, that it's being exported there. Now, in the case of care money, you can re-establish our country and make it an import/export country in terms of care money, both in terms of export and import, in the version that the Austrians have the disadvantage and not the advantage. You can only be congratulated on this, ladies and gentlemen! I brought you today a quote from the main association of social security institutions, which shares our criticism so to speak. I would therefore like to bring you the quote, because otherwise Mr Cap still feels obliged to say that it is the evil liberties who invent something and claim anything that is wrong, the apocalyptic riders – by the way, their rosers are red and black – you know that just as well as I do, Mr Cap. But please, that's why I brought you this, and I don't want to keep you away from what it means when this law comes as you decide today. I quote the main association of social security funds: ‘In the result’ – So when decision-making is taken – "The proposed provisions would therefore lead to the fact that, on the one hand, due to the European legal qualification of the care allowance as a benefit in the case of sickness, it is to be exported in all cases where Austria is responsible for sickness benefits. On the other hand, all Union and EEA citizens (and other persons equivalent to the same person)’ – Turkey, North Africa, Association Agreements – ‘with normal residence in Austria, only because of this stay, are entitled to care benefits’. The main association comes to the conclusion: ‘This result cannot, inter alia, be sought from the perspective of financing the care allowance or from European equal treatment considerations.’ [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, every single word can be signed in this criticism. Where is social justice? Your own main association lets you determine how the matter is actually ordered. Now you can go here and say that is European law and you must stick to it. Do you know what I'm telling you? . I tell you that we are getting the impression that this European law will always be applied if it is applied to the detriment of Austria, and that this right always has no meaning and it will be broken if other interests are involved and you are there. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I only remember the Greek tragedy where you are rolling billions of euros across Europe. This European law, which you now cling to, does not play a role. There is being bent, broken, just so that you can play the hands of this European Union. You could also say that this is all stupid, but then I have to point out that this has been formulated by your experts in the main association of social security funds, that it is your pension insurance institution experts who have written it, and this pension insurance institution plays a very, very important role in your concept. I therefore come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, that what you are presenting cannot be approved in the interests of the Austrian population. It is the continuation of a wrong course of our out-of-work services at a tight level, which reduces the Austrians. Therefore, in third reading, there is no agreement either.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5312	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5334	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! One can approach the subject as the Members of the Government have done, and thank all the possible people – I thank them back – and that is what the matter is all about. Or you can present figures with which to praise the benefits of this reform – yes, it is possible. It can be done as Mr Kickl has just done by representing Austria as the only country in the European Union where, as for a honey cap, which is obvious to Austria, all Europeans and third-country nationals are flying to consume social benefits here. [[Abg. May. Lap: Come on!]] [[Abg. Wenninger: Well, if not!]] [[Abg. May. Lap: That's unfair!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's it!]] Unfortunately, this also has very little to do with reality. I certainly do not want to have anything to do with this way and with this approach, nor do I want to start with it. I want to choose a completely different way. I do not know who of you – I hope some have read it – has read the very beautiful and touching book of Arno Geiger “The Old King in His Exile”. Geiger describes in a very, very beautiful and touching – unfortunately not many other terms fall into my mind – the story of his father's last years who suffers from dementia. The great thing about this book is that he does not represent this stage of his father's dementia as something where, so to speak, only the suffering, the sickness, the misery, the determining, but he manages to give his father at this very strange stage, which at first has nothing to do with, the dignity that this man, this old man, this “old king” still has. That, I think, should be, regardless of how we differ in detail in the approaches, actually also the task of politics: to give those old people, those people – it is not only old people who need care and care – the dignity they also have. And if we don't get there with our policy, then we've failed, very radically. There is neither a number nor a lot of numbers to beautify anything, and only by looking at and looking at these demands that you all have – I don't want to agree with anyone else, no political group – will we be quite right, whether what we see is taken into account in dealing with old people, whom we can experience every day, if only we want or if we look more closely. Clearly, we need funds to do this, we need money for it, we also need public funds for it. We need better administration, a fund. We also need to simplify the allocation and allocation of care money, because it was simply a duck and it is still that 303 jobs are responsible for the disbursement of care money. There is also a motion for a resolution which seeks to further melt down the reduction to the eight carriers. It is clear that: There should be no differences in the allocation of care payments, neither in the Federal States nor in paying agencies, nor in accordance with other criteria. The criteria should be the same for all. On this claim we have to measure this reform. Now it's going to be reduced to eight carriers, but I can tell you right now, it looks different. There have been, according to pathetic criteria, a number of insured or care professionals have been given back to an insurance institution, and for the large and even larger part, an institution is responsible for the pension insurance institution. On the other hand, you've seen some sort of way that everyone's got their little sheep in the dry somewhere. We are still away from this claim that all are treated equally, but we have come a good piece closer. Yes, thank you for being able to adopt this reform now, thank you all for the fact that it has fallen, because one thing I can say to you: Here, to decide a commission that will limit this improvement until 2014 and then perhaps have to be reversed, you will tell some citizen or citizen what that would have been a nonsense! The fact that you have not yet reached this deadline, which you have all represented in the committee – that is what you have to say; you have still represented this term of office by the government parties, but now it is gone – is good. But have we actually taken a decisive step forward in our demands for future care? – We have set up funds – and this is what we have to say on this occasion – that were only to be set up by the fact that they were initially removed from potential care providers by the intensification of the care allowance. Money was saved, which is now being converted into the care fund. - Okay. By 2014, funds are now available, the federal government and countries are being distributed, but, Mr Wöginger, we still do not have a permanent solution to this area. To conclude, I would just like to say the following: If it is so – and we know that – that for people who need care and care, the minimum wealth they often have is their few thousand euros or their home, they are taxed radically on over 90 percent – they are taken away almost everything and thus much of the remaining dignity – if that is the case and is still so practiced, then I ask you – and the question goes towards the Austrian People's Party, since there is no ringing, because I have heard something else about the SPÖ, and the SPÖ has done nothing about it: Is the existing solution really dignified for those concerned, or is it not useful and future-looking if we all who have a fortune participate to a small extent in the taxation of inheritances or gifts to finance the maintenance of the future? – You will still have to answer this question.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5435	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5457	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, about 440,000 people receive care benefits, 85 percent of them – 369,000 people – federal care benefits and 74,000 persons. Prior to 1993, the care business was state-owned. At the time, the Bundespflegegeldgesetz was created and referred to as a milestone. In the meantime, 18 years have moved into the country, and we are now reforming the Federal Care Money Act with a decisive step. This Bundespflegegeldgesetz has a very fragmented structure in care provision, in legislation, in the enforcement between the federal government and countries, and now the legislative and enforcement competence is to be transferred to the federal government and administrative simplification. We also see it as good as it is. Of course, there is also a lot to criticize, especially in the course of the past years. Although criticism of funds and grants has been voiced today, I must say that this is a part of the care fund, but it will be decided under the next item on the agenda, and we will not agree to it because there is a lot in the arrogance there. But in my opinion, the law on care funds is an important thing that we also agree with, because in the past there have often been burdens instead of improvements in the care sector. I just remember the 2011 budget accompanying law. Since access to care levels 1 and 2 has been made more difficult by provisions, there are hours of care In the first stage, from 50 to 60, and in the second stage of care, from 75 to 85. This is, as it were, a certain label gap, because of course the federal government saves some money there – between 2011 and 2014 €360 million. If the federal government now says that it is shooting two-thirds of the €685 million necessary under the Care Fund Act, then it must be said that it is actually only €100 million, because it has already saved the rest of it before. – Mr Federal Minister, this is one I would like to criticize. The other is the advertising campaign carried out by the former Deputy Chancellor and Finance Minister Pröll. We have started a request, and it turns out that the former Minister of Finance Pröll has spent €674,000 on advertising. – Ladies and gentlemen, these €674,000 would be much better removed from the caregivers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The current Minister of Finance, Fekter, is now also making an advertising campaign in which she is working: “Pleasant claims are no longer handled by 303 different bodies – but centrally by the federal government: This makes it clearer, easier and faster.” There are eight decision-makers in the future, that's all right, but I don't need to advertise that. I need the money for the caregivers and not for ads. Ladies and gentlemen, we from the BZÖ have been calling for an overall approach in the care sector for years, and this is also supported by the Court of Auditors. Now, at last, there is a solution. And I have to say one thing: In this area, a lot has been done since the last Committee, because it was still such that this law would have been limited until 2014. But that would have meant that if there was a veto from any federal state, it would have to go back again. This time-limit is now from the table, and that's good. That was also a reason why we agree with this today. However, the transfer of the care money management to the federal government also brings a huge administrative simplification. There is a significant reduction in decision-makers. In the future, there will be eight more decision-makers. We just wanted one, as you know, Mrs Csörgits. We have also jointly formulated a resolution calling on the Federal Government to further reduce the number of decision-makers of eight. Now everyone finds his decision-makers where he is insured. There are two paying agencies: the public staff and the PVA. It is important that from 280 national offices and 23 federal offices has been reduced to eight. This is a huge step, ladies and gentlemen, and this should also lead to an acceleration of the procedures. So far, the processing of applications until the decision-making process has often lasted longer than three months, i.e. more than 90 days, and in the future everything is expected to go faster, and the procedures are to be handled within two months in particular. This should also lead to savings in the countries and communities. It is also important that competence adjustment is made to minimise the administrative burden of smaller institutions – I remember at this point to the Austrian Notary’s insurance institution – and above all to standardise the payment dates of the care allowance. So far, some federal states have been paid out in advance, others in retrospect, and that is now being unified. These are the decisive steps in this area. If I say that adjustment of competence in this area has been achieved through the concentration of care money management at the federal government, this is an essential step towards administrative simplification in Austria. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. Csörgits.]] But above all this will also be accepted by the Court of Auditors' recommendation. The significant reduction in the number of decision-makers and paying agencies is also an essential step. If one continues to work in this direction and the Federal Government gives it Ok if one improves the performance of the care system, especially in the light of a further concentration of decision-makers and a uniformation in the interests of care providers, then this is also in our sense. We will continue to do so in the future. I think that's the right thing to do. I'm saying one more thing: That is Parliamentaryism, that it has been possible in the last few days since the last Committee meeting, to put a few things in a positive direction to the decision-making process here in plenary today. We have succeeded, and I thank everyone for that, and wish that this will continue to be done in the future – in the sense of the caregivers in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5551	Mr Hundstorfer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5572	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking all those who will vote in favour of this draft law. I would also like to thank you for having shown understanding that we are able to learn, and we have demonstrated our ability to learn in the period since the Committee meeting to this day. That's what we call work in progress, some things have to develop. I would like to point out once again that what we are deciding here today is the biggest administrative reform in recent years. There has been no such administrative reform for many years. In 2005 it was animal welfare; now please do not draw wrong conclusions, I ask myself not to misunderstand. It is true that we reduce the number of carriers from 303 to eight. It is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that we spend 60 million more on the care money this year than in the previous year. We do not save in this area, there is no to-death savings, but more money is spent. By the measures in the care stages 1 and 2, which the Constitutional Court confirmed yesterday, it is so that we slow down the increase. This is the only one that could be criticized, but it will be spent by 60 million more. 50 000 people come into the system each year, and 60 000 of those in the system experience a change because they need higher levels. That means that this is proved to be a very dynamic system. The federal government is also doing something. I can only remind you briefly: The AUVA cases have been since 1. July at the PVA. We have moved from the ÖBB to the VAEB, we have changed the provisions for state teachers and also the Constitutional Court – this was also its own authority – we have transferred the cases of retired officials from Post AG, Postbus, Telekom and, above all, the countries and municipalities to the BVA and the large group of remaining national care benefits and the victim care cases to the PVA. We have done what many have called for over many years. We have also implemented the Court of Auditors' proposals. I think we are on a good path to clear responsibilities. I can invite you to participate there or there. Maybe we'll do things with the notarial. It's not quite easy, but since there are notaries in all parties, you might be able to play a little part. Maybe something else is possible. We wanted to make it, but unfortunately it was not possible. In fact, we have no longer eight carriers in the back office area, but there has been a lot more summarized there, because in some social insurances the back office is made by the PVA. I believe that what we owe people will now be able to put into effect: a maximum period of 60 days. The League has always been a good example of how it works. We were also very good on the road during the high-levels. I hope that we will work together to create this definition for 60 days. I am deeply convinced that this will be possible. I am also deeply convinced that people will then get what they have to do very quickly. I would like to thank once again all those who have contributed to this and, finally, only very briefly – and I do not deserve more money to clarify Mr Kickl's statements. People who live in Austria, people who work in Austria, people who pay taxes in Austria and then receive a pension, should also receive care money. [[Abg. Ing. Hoebart: This is the decisive!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] That's why, Mr. Kickl! Among them are people who want to spend their evening abroad, people who have worked in Austria who have lived in Austria, decide to move to Spain, decide to move to Hungary, decide to move to the Federal Republic of Germany. We are now talking about 493 cases, of 0.11 percent of care providers. - Point one. Point two – I now come back very briefly to an opinion from the main association –: The main association has delivered its opinion on how the Federal Care Fund is currently regulated and has been regulated so far. We only have a small problem, and this small problem is: It is necessary to adopt nine national laws, and these nine national laws are no longer the priority of pension, but the degree of disability, the proper residence, the proper residence. A proper residence permit can only be obtained if you fulfil certain basic conditions. Dear Mr. Kickl, the federal law that so strongly criticizes you is word-identifiable with the Kärntner Landesgesetz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] You have had the opportunity to change something for many years with your clear argumentation. You have also been represented in a federal government, but for your part, this has not even been an issue, because you know very well that there is no such export, which you think, at all. [[Abg. Riepl: The kickl itself not!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Kickl, you're just a kicker who thinks he can do something somewhere. [[Abg. Kickl: I've long suspected that you don't know what's going to be decided!]] Go to Carinthia, carry out a change of the state law there, six months it still works! So you can prove that you are supposed to be working for Austria! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] This federal government states that people who live here, people who work, even people who work here and pay taxes here, have a right to our services. That's what it's all about. [[Abg. Kickl: You have no idea! That's really shocking!]] It is precisely this that the whole system is set aside, including the nine national laws of the Austrian federal states. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5675	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5696	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Many have already been thanked today. I do not want to continue, but I would like to highlight a group that is particularly important to me, because I believe that this group deserves special thanks. These are the people who are employed in care, for example, those who are employed in mobile care, who are on their way from 6 a.m. to 14 clients who, as said, start with their medical care early at 6 p.m., with the basic care of their clients, with the preparation of patients for day centers. From 9 a.m. onwards, it is necessary to change associations, to provide mobile services and various other activities for patients. These colleagues do a highly qualified job. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to expressly underline what Mr Wöginger said about the caring families. It is quite clear that this is an important group, but the colleagues who are employed in the care have also enjoyed appropriate training for this, are employed as an old-age caregiver, as a caregiver, as a qualified care staff. They have completed two years of professional training or three to four years of diploma training. They do highly qualified work. You have to say that. Care is not something you can just do. Highly professional work is being done for those in need of care, so our very thanks and our attention to these colleagues. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks, a lot has been said – here in the High House, in the public – about the hardworking, about the skilled and about the performance providers. – Let’s talk about the performance carriers! Those who are at 6:00 a.m. each day with patients and do everything for them, with crazy commitment, with heart blood, with every fiber of their heart, are the service providers in this country and not any other. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Who are the others?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The need for care increases. We currently have 40 000 full-time equivalent workers in stationary and mobile care. We know because of the fact that many people are busy in part-time, that it is much more. Therefore, every euro we invest in this area is a contribution to ensuring future care and creating new jobs in the care sector. Each euro also helps to ensure that ordinary and better paid jobs can be offered in this area than is the case today. I would like to stress once again: The people who are employed in the care are certainly not doing this primarily because of the money, because the payment in the care area is one that leaves a lot of room up. That is why we are also committed to the relevant financial conditions by the trade union movement. I am therefore very glad that we are taking an important step today, a particularly great step in this direction. Clearly, we need more 13 000 employees in full-time equity by 2020. We must train colleagues to do this. We need to create working conditions that ensure that colleagues who are employed in care stay in this profession and not, because they are either completely overburdened or badly paid, are looking for another job for a short time. That is why it is so important that we create the relevant framework conditions with the present draft legislation that we decide today. More than 22,000 signatures have been collected on the initiative of VIDA and GPA-DJP two years ago, and a petition for the social billions has also been filed here in the house. And today we can say: It has not become the social billion, but a care fund with €685 million. This is a big step in the right direction. We can be proud of this together that it has succeeded. Dear Rudi Hundstorfer, we all know that this was not easy considering how many very different players have been at work. Therefore, out of genuine conviction and with deep respect, a warm thank you. I congratulate that this has succeeded – in the interests of the caregivers, but also in the interests of the employees in the care sector. Rudi, I think you did a great job, which is why we should also thank you for that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] From my point of view, what is something special that I would like to highlight, so that there is no false impression: The funds now being set up in addition, these 685 million, come to a large part of the bank levy. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] A large part of it has gone to the countries, and they partly finance care. This is a good example of redistribution, of distribution justice. Now we need to reorganise the care for the post-2014 period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5766	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5793	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I have not only welcomed Minister Hundstorfer but also congratulate him. I think we can do this today, also thanks to him, Sepp Pröll, Maria Fekter as the lead ministers, of course also the competent national leaders, the political groups, the leaders of the political groups, Mrs Csörgits, August Wöginger, Green and Orange, of course. I do not want to say too much about Mr Kickl and his argumentation in the sense of the basic positive mood. Thank you. It is in politics that there are sometimes small steps. [[Abg. Kickl: Just keep doing that!]] – We continue exactly that way, and I say to you: If the Federal Government and the High House continue to do so in the last three days, if we have succeeded in resolving the local panel conflict, by the way, together with the whole country of Carinthia and most of the Slovenian organisations, if we have succeeded in bringing about an eco electricity law even with the votes of the Greens, if we decide today on this care package, then as parliamentarian I have a very good conscience – you probably not! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] There are great steps in politics, as I said, small steps, but I think that what is available today is something like a big throw, ladies and gentlemen. I have said more often in my past that the care is something like the perhaps last major construction site in this excellent social system that Austria has built up. And this construction site is now under construction. We will probably never reach a completion, but a large floor has been set up. And in addition, Minister Hundstorfer, congratulations! What August Wöinger has worked out, I think, has been a little undervalued, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We are already very exemplary in the field of care internationally today. OECD reports that usually tell the truth – by the way also in the direction of public service – 5.1 percent of Austrians are entitled to care benefits. That's an OECD record value! If socially high-ranking countries such as Germany, Sweden or Switzerland come to just over half of this percentage, I am already very satisfied. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! You know now, in retrospect, already that in 2006 you have politically motivated simply argued wrong when you spoke of care emergency. There was no such thing at the time, and there is no such thing today. That was only a condition of election. We were very, very strong at the time. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me put these 685 million plus in a larger frame. 5.5 billion are according to the data of the social sector, which is spent in this country in total for care. There's no reason to doubt that. Besides, it's not just about money. As some have said, 80 percent of care is still provided by families. Give God and anyone else to keep it. We need to support them, but not only with the pension insurance contributions we pay. Thanks to the families who do great things – apart from the care professionals, Mr. Katzian is right, it was not just a union-oriented duty note. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] For these four years, €685 million total plus 7.3 percent on what the public hand spends. So this is all a proper financial boost. [[Abg. Kickl: This is the wrong item on the agenda!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's not about the care fund now!]] “There is nothing good but one does it,” said Erich Kästner. Whether or not administrative reform is being taken into account from 303 paying agencies for the citizens who are still in a rather difficult situation, either the person to be cared for or their relatives, it is already part of this great throw that I have addressed. Note on the margins: The federal government reduces from 23 to eight, the countries from 280 to zero. The Landespflege, which made up a significantly smaller part, was processed by 280 jobs – well, comment superfluous. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, that's what I'm about to conclude. I am not known in my group as a friend of all too much, large-scale government Councils with a focus on Boulevard. But in this case it is all appropriate to inform the Minister of Social Affairs and the relevant bodies of this important major reform work. Hundreds of thousands are affected, millions of families are indirectly affected. Therefore, there is a total of information on the innovations. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: They must be right!]] If this is balanced in the press landscape and is not boulevard focused, then I am glad to see you again. But, as I said, the joy is great. That's a big throw. It was an excellent parliamentary week. I can only say to ourselves: Keep going! We have shown respect for each other. If this continues, then we certainly do not have to fear the opposition – even before you, Mr. Strache, before you, Mr. Kickl – in elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5925	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e5946	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I already heard it. I hear it's self-hypnosis. One calms down on one side: The dangerous and evil liberals, no, they are not so strong at all, nothing will happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer, you told us before that everything is in the best order. People who are industrious here in Austria, work and obtain a pension, are to be paid and supported, even if they are from abroad. Federal Minister! Of course you are. But I'll tell you where the system error lies. I read you a newspaper article of 14. January to show the system in Austria: “In Bregenz a three - year - old child was beaten to death. Miroslav M. “The little Cain, the son of his companion, would have been severely abused and would have hit him with a dull object – probably a broom handle – until the child was dead. The Serb had already been noticed in the past due to its aggressiveness, has been punished several times and in early retirement.” So, according to your model, this culprit would also be entitled to care money. Federal Minister! I congratulate you! We don't want to. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly bad in this context that this is not an individual case. The good man was drug addicts and is therefore in early retirement. Our answer is: If any Foreigners in Austria are ill due to drug addiction, then he does not have to get a ticket to his home country. That's the right way to go. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to stress that what you said before about the people's group is also presented differently by the PVA. The PVA says: The implementation of the care allowance should be extended to persons who are not involved in Austrian social security or who have never been involved in the Austrian social system in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what the PVA says. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's how it looks!]] So you must not criticize the FPÖ if you are trying to act harshly against us. Tell my colleagues at the PVA! That is, when I'm correctly informed, not a liberal. We have big financial problems anyway. The Minister for Finance tells us that she does not know how to finance this or that. But we have the money for Greece. We also have money to support 25-year-old Serbian early pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not all right! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: Please! That's really disgusting!]] We see the administrative simplification – Mr. Ollinger, I also find it disgusting when a 25-year-old drug addict of Serbian early retirementist beats a child to death. [[Abg. Oils: That's so disgusting!]] This is disgusting, Mr. Ollinger. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: Last-class!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is inconceivable!]] - That's inconceivable. That's really inconceivable. These are the intermediate calls of the SPÖ: That's inconceivable. You know, you should put a little on the side of the kids being beaten to death by such people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: And if that makes an Austrian?! Then it's something else?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: But Austrians can beat their children to death?- Oh, my God!]] If it's an Austrian, it's just as bad. But how do we get in Austria to feed a 25-year-old drug addict to kill a child? Ladies and gentlemen! That's disgusting! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You and your policy are responsible for making this possible in Austria at all. That's your policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Oh, and Austrians can beat their children to death?- Oh, my God!]] – Mr Ollinger, show the bird – that is your level! Mr. Ollinger, you already have some foam in front of your mouth, wipe the foam a little bit, then it's a little better for you! - A shame for the house, that's right. [[Abg. Keck: You are a shame to this house!]] A shame for the house is that in Austria there are drug addicts, early pensioners from abroad who beat children to death. Ladies and gentlemen! They make it possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Oils: That's hot! Cheap bitch!]] Ladies and gentlemen! How does the care allowance look? – The Austrian care providers have to take 20 percent of the loss of inflation. 20 percent inflation loss! – Don't give that back to people! You have simply deleted the NOVA refund. [[Abg. Vock: This is social justice!]] People with disabilities have so far had the opportunity to get back the NoVA when they bought a car. You of the SPÖ, you of the ÖVP have made it possible that this will no longer be paid out in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We have difficult access to 24-hour care. There is a nursing mafia in Austria. People are put under massive pressure when they are in a really difficult situation and need someone to care for and care for them at home. There are the care mafia, the over windy agencies, over their own constructions, trying to pull people's money out of their pockets. [[Abg. May. Lap: There are others, too, Mr President!]] These are the solutions we lack. These are the solutions that cause people the biggest problems every day. Ladies and gentlemen! They preach the fast-paced standstill in Austria. They deceive business, but nothing goes on at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read this sentence from the PVA again because the Federal Minister will say afterwards that the FPÖ is wrong. Again: The implementation of the care allowance should be extended to persons who are not involved in the Austrian social security system and who have never been involved in the Austrian social system in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, the young man, whose case I have described before, would be entitled, according to your proposal, to obtain care benefits in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6225	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6247	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! I do not want to talk about it, but you should already consider that there are also Austrians who suffocate who take drugs. [[Abg. Yeah, that's right!]] Before you break a drug debate from the fence, you really should go on withdrawal. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: A nursing mistrust debate!]] I can remember when – eight or nine years ago – I visited the Geriatric Center there with a certain distance of respect for the bad events in Lainz. I took half a day for that. I'm then in a quadruple room, I think, with three ladies, average age significantly over 80. They greeted me very euphorically and asked me: Are you the new one? Are you staying with us? – This has caused a certain distress with me, but a cheerful one. But now I want to come to the serious part of the care: About 80 000 people die each year, of which two thirds die in old-age and nursing homes and hospitals. Before this death there are also years, months or weeks. This is the time we should look at. What's it look like? I believe that only when we get away from these numbers and look at the distress, the anxiety, the fears and also the desires of these people, can we decide whether there is an emergency in care, how great it is and what to do. I'm putting very special value on that, and it doesn't look so good. There are no sufficient social benefits for families in which a caregiver or a caregiver lives. The risk of poverty is rising by 20 percent, and that is not little. There are studies to this end. I don't know the progress. That was a good and big step today. I too congratulate the Minister and everyone involved. Nevertheless, I would like to maintain – and I am not talking about something I have not seen – that there are basic care and funding gaps in care. They are so elementary that the people concerned feel them. The Federation, the countries and the communities feel it too. I mean, it needs action and it's fast. It's fucking fast. Let's just look at the average care allowance: Of this average care allowance, those affected can provide one hour of care per day or four hours of qualified care every week. Then the average care allowance is gone. I have calculated that the average care allowance and the average pension added are available to the caregivers about € 1,500. That's 50 € a day. What remains if only 12 hours of care per week are necessary? - Zero! You're in the minus. That's reality. That means: We need a care fund – not at some point, but soon. However, it must also be sufficiently supported or filled. There are the Greens, unlike another party, a Ja Sager party – yes to the care fund and indeed to sufficient funding. We are in favour of a right to humane and plausible care, without any difference from the federal state and the insurance institution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In any case, I do not want these achievements to stop and not go on. Dog torfer has said right today that this was a progress, a achievement. If we do not try to do so, if these areas of action are not there, then the national conference could replace Parliament as soon as possible. Look at the people in the homes! The homes are trying to reach out for those who do it. But they are located at the border of loadability and also under spruce dictatorships. I can see a confused old man sitting in front of his plate for ten minutes, with the fork pushing the rice back and forth and trying to spit an pea, and it fails if not a relative is there and helps him – some of the staff can't make it. They can't do it. People in the most beautiful homes often do not come to the garden because the staff is not there because the home cannot pay the staff. [[Call to the ÖVP: These are badly run homes!]] – No, these are not poorly managed homes, I gave my father a very well-led one. There is also something like this – not industriousness, not in malice, but in helplessness and underfinancing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In Austria, there is not even a quarter of the graduate care staff of Scandinavian States available per 10,000 inhabitants. 90 percent of the care staff are not in residential areas, in the care of the home, but in stationary facilities. So it's a lot to do. I'm asking: How do you finance that? It is not blasphemous – the Wifo has made an excellent study on alternative care forms –: We need capital taxation, we need an inheritance tax, which is partly intended. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] The greatest taxation of assets takes place when someone is cared for by you, and you see how your assets are reduced to zero. That's the tax you're taking. Another one that is not 90 percent, not 100 percent, you refuse. I think this is grotesque.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6331	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6352	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofer, I can Understanding your emotions in such a terrible incident. This is not the only one, but we know that there is still a lot to be done in the area of child protection. It starts with neglect of children by various persons – through parents, by other caregivers. I just mean that this example was not well chosen today as an argument for your mood against this care money reform law. I cordially invite you to join our initiative “More Child Protection Now!” so that we can do something here in Parliament together quickly, do not hesitate, do not delay anything out so that incidents like this can no longer happen in the future. [[He was also in favour of BZÖ and SPÖ representatives.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we see this care money reform law from the point of view of the necessary administrative reform. We see it from the point of view of the elimination of multiple powers, the elimination of double conductivity. We have discussed this very intensively in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We have seen in the last few days that the government or the government parties also have a little bit on have heard what the opposition parties say – rightly. We have made criticisms, such as this Vetorecht 2014, or that what we decide today cannot be the end of the flag rod, but should only be the beginning of a further reform. Today we will decide by a majority in the National Council. The BZÖ agrees to this PES for the reasons mentioned by Mr Dolinschek. We will not agree to the Care Fund Act – and I say so right now. The Care Fund Act contains many things we see differently, and is above all not a sustainable guarantee of care. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I believe that in the future people must be generally sure that there is a quiet, quality and decent care. We must give people this reliability, and we must also be honest. I would like to return to the ads again: These ads have not only cost almost €700 000 so far, but have already been made in March by the former Vice-Cancellor Pröll, for example, and it has already been rejoiced that care is ensured. Then I wonder: What else do we need Parliament to do? Today we decide something and not in March. Furthermore, there have been half-truths – Mr Dolinschek has already read it. So I also expect a government to have honesty and reliability toward people. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Court of Auditors has correctly noted that there is currently no insurance against the risk of need for care and that we have too many jobs. Everything is structurally fragmented – different payouts, fees, reviews and so on. Therefore, as early as October 2010, we as BZÖ have already submitted a request, which is also included in points 1 to 8, which provides for exactly this reform of the care allowance. That's why I'm saying: This presentation of the government is an important start, a first step to make adjustments and, above all, to give people greater legal certainty. In practice, we will see how finally the implementation will be. Federal Minister! They said that the procedures would be shortened. I hope that they will be shortened, because these long waiting periods until care money is granted are also something that is not reasonable. As I said, the practice will show. I think we have to go even further. I am therefore very glad that we have had the opportunity to bring our initiative into a motion for a resolution which will be tabled by a subsequent speaker. This motion for a resolution clearly states that there must be a further concentration of decision-makers. Now we have eight. It's good from 330 to eight, but we can't stand there. There must also be further development in the simplification and improvement of care money, especially in the interests of care providers. Something that is not decided today, but what I would like to say at this point is the following: The care allowance is urgently valorised. We also have a corresponding request, because 60 percent of the benefits can only be covered because there is no ongoing valorization. I would also like to say on this day: Care money as an important subjective financial performance, in line with needs, must also be secure in the future – so that people can also be sure that, if they need something, there is help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6425	Mrs Fekter came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6448	Mr President. Mr. Minister Hundstorfer! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Seers! The care package was a very big throw. At the time, it was directed by the head of state Dr. Pühringer, Vice Chancellor Josef Pröll and Minister Rudolf Hundstorferschnürt. They have created a package in long tough negotiations, according to which the money is now pooled at the federal level at the federal level and then made available through the institutions to the municipalities, to the nursing institutions. Several problems were solved at one time. And we can already say that was one of the very big administrative reform steps we have taken. So thank you to these three gentlemen. I didn't negotiate that at the time. But I would like to say today that this is a very good thing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Federation, together with the countries, takes a lot of money into its hands so that we can provide the care that people need, where we support in the families, where we offer people in their need for care to those who need it. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As Minister of Finance, I know we're gonna need a lot of money. We cannot talk about the fact that this problem is finally solved. - No, quite the contrary! We must strive to take account of the increasing demographic change. People get older and older, that's gratifying. They will thank God, too, for a healthier age. But if we need more care, because there are more older people, we also have to provide the money and the associated infrastructure. Minister Hundstorfer has established that the previously over 303 paying places have been merged to just over eight paying places. This is the big throw in the administrative simplification that we succeeded in this package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can tell you: This will make people come to their care money faster. It will be easier to get to the care allowance, administrative costs will also be much lower. This is something I imagine as a Minister of Finance. The package, which has been successful in the field of care, could also serve as a model for a reform in the health field. There too, we could simplify structures, pool money and bring it faster to those who actually need it. I am also concerned that this has been achieved in terms of caring for families. Just 80 percent of care is done in the families, and this benefit in the families cannot be estimated high enough. Therefore, we must also try to ensure that families do not have to wait months for the care allowance, but that it is provided quickly. We make a total of €685 million available for the years 2011 to 2014 including 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That won't be enough. We will soon have to take care of what will be after 2014 in a new structural working group. We have therefore also decided to extend the financial compensation by 2014 to ensure that the total is negotiated. We are here on the side of the municipalities, the municipalities. We cannot leave the communities alone with their competence to provide the care infrastructure. The communities do not have the financial power to work this out. I've got it. I've got it. There is a need for joint effort. Therefore, the Federation has also agreed to make this money available. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention: Of course it's tax money. Of course, this money comes from tax revenue. But this money is managed by our Social Minister. He has contributed to the achievement of this package. Thank you very much to the Minister for Social Affairs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There the well-managed and the needy, no, is made available to the institutions offering this service. We therefore also have a nursing service database, because we want to know where something is offered, who offers it and, above all, whether there are possible areas in Austria in which nothing is offered, because then we have to adjust in this regard. For this whole package a thank you to those who have negotiated it. And as Minister of Finance, I will continue to ensure that the money will also come directly to the caregivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6542	The next round of speakers will be available for 4 minutes per speech. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6567	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I shall begin with a positive five-party proposal to regulate the further harmonisation of care money. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am very pleased that this request is supported by all five parties. I think that also underlines the importance of all of us here, who are represented in the house, in the financing of care funds and in the care sector as a whole. As a result, I find it all the more regrettable that the liberals today cannot get through to give their approval to the care package – also because many of the demands you have always made in recent weeks and months are being implemented with this package today. [[Abg. Kickl:... what you rejected!]] Mr Kickl! It's really a shame you can't vote. I am also convinced that all of us here in the house want to see sick and in need of care cared for as best as possible, that there is a need and need-oriented offer for all people who need help, and this also needs to be financially available. It must focus on the self-determination of disabled people. The needs of caregivers must be taken into account. Of course, as Mr Katzian has already mentioned, the concerns of nurses must also be taken very seriously into account so that the difficult tasks can continue to be fulfilled in the future. And it is also necessary to consider the caring families, who are a large part of the women, in the entire care package in the future. The Care Money Reform Act – ladies and gentlemen, I am really convinced of this – is a very important step towards it. In particular, almost all points and recommendations of the Court of Auditors are also implemented. We, ladies and gentlemen, take the Court's recommendations seriously. Unfortunately, the liberals do not even take their own demands seriously. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Abg. Kickl: No response in your own group!]] The Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, called for the country's legislative and enforcement competence to come into force. This is implemented by today's law. The Court of Auditors has called for a reduction in the number of decision-makers. There are currently 280 jobs in the country and 23 in the federal government. This is also being implemented today. [[Abg. Strache: You didn't listen! We all agree at second reading!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is the biggest administrative reform in recent years and decades. [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe you say something...!]] I think this deserves our recognition, especially respect, especially to our Federal Minister Rudi Hundstorfer, who has really spent a lot of time and commitment to negotiating this care reform package. A warm thank you to Rudi Hundstorfer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We all know – and this has been mentioned several times today – that this package does not end the efforts in the care sector, but we need to take further steps. I am convinced that the working group, which has begun its work in the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection under the leadership of Federal Minister Rudolf Hundstorfer, will be able to develop the concepts for the future. I'm really convinced of that. I am also very pleased that today's package will also help the cities and communities to get a discharge, because this is also important. It is true that in recent years the municipalities and the cities have experienced a 20 percent increase in social assistance expenditure. We must support the communities and cities and help them to ensure that care can continue in the future. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that we are all invited to work together for eligible needs and needs in the care sector, because this is a very large package of futures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6699	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6780	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6802	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! More than 400,000 people are currently taking care of the benefits under the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz and the Landespflegegeldsgesetzen. 85 percent of the caregivers are cared for at home, with the help of care services around 20 percent. 24 hours care concerns 4 percent. Only by family members are 61 percent maintained, in homes it is around 15 percent. Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House and in front of the TV screens at home! I would like to express my appreciation, my respect, but also my thanks to all those who work in the care sector – whether it be family members who care at home, or people who work in the homes. They belong to Thank you and our recognition. This profession, no matter what form, is truly a difficult profession. [[General condolences.]] As it was said that most of the caregivers are cared for at home, and the book by Arno Geiger was also mentioned: Yes, I read the book, it's a touching book, but it doesn't exactly correspond to reality. My mother is a dementia care case, and what that means, you have to experience it yourself. That doesn't give back the book, it only describes a part of it. And what that means for family members who care in this area, which is sometimes not recognized as care, you have to see first. My mother's been in a home for a few months. People who care there can only expressly thank them for what they do. It was said to care for about 80 percent of the family at home. In fact, it is worth mentioning the health and pension insurance, for which we spend €35 million a year, in addition €8 million for replacement care services, because the people who care for at home should be able to take a break once. In this context, the care system in Austria is also worth mentioning, which includes a seven-stage care allowance, for which we spend €2.4 billion a year, but also for the care services and the mobile services. The Federal Minister has already said that €60 million in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen! It was addressed, but it was repeatedly heard that there were so far 280 federal and 23 federal offices responsible for care benefits. So it is good and necessary that this be unified. A harmonisation of enforcement and an acceleration of the duration of the proceedings is intended to bring today's bill. Thank you also for the opposition here in this important act. This, in my opinion, also brings benefits to all parties in the Government's view. This part of the administrative reform brings an advantage to those in need, an advantage also to the cities and communities responsible, also to the taxpayers of today, because less money flows into the administration, as well as to the taxpayers of tomorrow, because the countries and municipalities have, so to speak, fewer debts and better control. All in all, an important step for the people of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6859	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6880	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! If one listens to the previous speakers of the government parties, the main thing is praise is how great the administrative simplification is. – Yes, our speaker Herbert Kickl has already said that. Of course, this simplification is great, and we shall also vote in second reading. That's not a question at all! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steibl.]] But what you've done in this law is a man. On the one hand, you have made an administrative simplification that is really to be praised, but on the other hand, you have packed something on which no one here has commented. We are the only ones who show this and are therefore beaten. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Colleague, you are happy to be here and to express your views on this. They're always just yelling out from behind. It is indeed a fact – we have already mentioned it several times today –: These are not only the “evil” liberties who point out no, but also the main association criticizes the law, the PVA criticizes the law. The PVA has provided a case-by-case example of how this would have an effect in practice, namely – I quote from the paper of the PVA –: This would result in more or less immediate entitlement to care benefit for Union citizens or their family members without any integration. In the practical effect this would mean that a German citizen relates exclusively to a German pension benefit, moving his residence to Austria. His wife is a Russian citizen and does not take his own pension. Both are in need of care. The spouse does not apply for a care allowance in Germany, since in Austria the care allowance is higher. Since he continues to be subject to German legislation, he must nevertheless also make contributions to German care insurance. Although the insured person was always connected to German social security with his spouse, he would now receive the full allowance from Austria for himself and his wife while paying the contributions in Germany. - Quote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's not something we're discovering "evil" liberties here. That is what the PVA says, Mr Federal Minister, this is, ladies and gentlemen. And at least you could believe it. [[Abg. Strache: All of this is adjourned! There's not everything!]] [[Abg. Kickl: It's getting much thicker!]] After all, the PVA can't be assumed to be a free touch. That's what it's like: We export money here. The question arises because you are so aggressive. We obviously stoked into a wespensus here, because it seems to you that we don't go with it, which actually surprises me a little. You could have expected that if people were consulted, we would have received benefits that have never been paid into the Austrian social system, because they would never go along! You can't really surprise that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I already have a little suspicion that this story is far from the end of the day, that there will still be some back, but we will see that in the next few months. You have to answer that. The question then arises whether it really makes sense to have the sour incomes of the Austrians paid to people who have never paid anything in this system. This is certainly not our way! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there is also a second aspect of this law, which has not yet been mentioned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] This is about maintaining the right of self-determination of disabled people, sick people and people in need of care. Our fear that this will get away is particularly great, for, Minister of the State, it is in the explanations: ‘If the character of a system based on cash benefits is maintained in principle’. And this term “means based on cash benefits” already makes us ring the alarm bells. We want a system based on cash benefits. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want the self-determination, the right of self-determination of the caregivers and not a system that is converted to benefits. That's something we reject. You could not give us a convincing answer in the committee either, because your example of an alcoholic, where it is better, he does not get the cash in his hand, which is a little weak example. I do not need to write this into the explanations if there are such individual problems now. In total, therefore, we can never give this law our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e6987	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7009	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Dear visitors! Yes, Mrs. Colleague, I really don't want your fears. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] The evidence is delivered again and again. It has already been thanked for a lot and many today, only a very large group in this area, namely women, has not been thanked. [[Calls:Oh yes]] I thank all mothers, daughters, spouses, partners, granddaughters, all those who not only care for their families but also work and work in the field. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] You thanked all the caring relatives, you also thanked the families, the families of the family, but You have not particularly thanked the women, and I thank them now. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Clickovits: 97 percent are women!]] 97 percent are women, exactly 80 to 90 percent of the caregivers are women. 80 percent of the caregivers are women. But there are also two thirds of the women in need of care, you must not forget that. Demographic development has already been discussed several times. And what is it about? – It has already been in the room several times today, but not often enough: It is about a dignified aging, it is about the people to be cared for in a dignified situation. It is about good care for the people and it is mainly about these people being in care for many, many years, in which many women also care for their relatives and their close relatives. These many years, especially in the jobs, should also be spent under decent conditions. We all know that many people who are employed in the care sector – probably you are also afraid of the nursing homes, colleagues and colleagues from FPÖ – are people with migration backgrounds that we need right there, because otherwise there are very few people doing this job. And we all know that much has to be done in this area. It shouldn't be just that. View of the jobs will be upgraded, but there should also be a financial upgrading. The framework conditions need to be changed. It must be recognised that it is a whole, very important activity that these people are doing in this area, and this must also be honoured accordingly. It is also about other framework conditions. It's about family members being able to go in care. It is about developing intelligent systems and that we are no longer losing time to deal with time beyond 2014. We all know that the 24-hour care is not necessarily the ideal model, that was an emergency solution. And we are now living with the emergency solution and are bearing the caregivers of ever-increasingly. They no longer come from the Czech Republic, who now come from Ukraine, are themselves subjected to incredible pressure and are active in areas that are largely associated with the grey area. These are little controlled and in precarious employment conditions, where we do not know to what extent quality is guaranteed. These are many areas where we need to look at exactly where we must not continue to live with emergency solutions and where the countries are also required. Especially in the 24-hour care it is so when it came to organizing mobile care accordingly that much is not possible at present, in accordance with the needs of the caregivers. We need to look closely at this, and we still have a lot to do in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7074	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7095	Mr President. High house! At the beginning, I would like to thank the remaining 10 percent, the fathers, brothers and sons, who also serve very much in the care. [[He was also in favour of BZÖ and SPÖ representatives.]] With this item on the agenda, our request for the annual valorisation of the care allowance will also be negotiated. There are around 450 000 people in need of care in Austria who receive care. My admiration is due to those who endure their fate so bravely, but also to those who take care of it. After all, 80 percent of the people in need of care are still cared for at home throughout Austria. These people who care for their families at home make a significant contribution by the economy. Without this contribution, care for all caregivers in Austria would not be possible. Some may think that care goes so side by side in the household that one can do the household and by the way one takes care of his family. - But that's a huge error. Whoever has ever cared for someone at home knows what a great mental and physical burden the care represents. In addition, massive financial losses are still being incurred for the family. Care is not to be mastered with little time, care requires care around the clock. There is no possibility of secondary employment. People in need of care in Austria want to be able to rely on the best possible care. Care must be high quality, safe and manageable. The amount of the care allowance is crucial for the possibility of care in the own four walls. Price increases in the case of necessary purchased services deteriorate the supply massively without increasing the care allowance. We have therefore submitted a request for the valorization of the care allowance in order to ensure the care and care of those in need. This request was rejected by the ÖVP and SPÖ Committee. With today's expected rejection of the application, the government parties once again show that foreign banks and speculators are closer to them than Austrian caregivers.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7141	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7165	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! Yes, who's going to be the next disabled lawyer? Will the disabled lawyer be called Hundstorfer? - I don't think so. That would be the right order if you looked at the orders of the past. But without turning around now, I know he has no ambitions and probably shakes his head. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] We have, however, taken the consequences from the orders of recent years. And I thank Minister Hundstorfer for finding a new order arrangement, people with disabilities are preferred with the same suitability. This is also underlined by a mandatory hearing in the process and by the involvement of the umbrella association of the disabled and the Federal Disability Advisory Council. There are also obstacles to career reductions because it is more difficult for disabled people to get to a school, complete a school, receive a higher education or have a management function. This is also taken into account. And so I am confident that the next disabled lawyer will be a self-affected, disabled person. And this is also in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Disabled People, namely the Self-Representation by Disabled People. I would like to take a brief look at the care fund that is being set up today. I welcome this, and I am glad that he has come to terms with it. It's a long-standing demand. Although funding for the period from 2014 has not yet been secured, I am confident that this will be achieved in the next financial compensation. I would also be pleased and I would find it important that the funding of personal assistance be included in the care funds. We have adopted a motion for a resolution in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment which aims to establish a working group in the Social Affairs Ministry. And I would like, Minister, that disabled people also be included, because without their expertise it will be difficult to find a solution here. Anyway, it's a good day today. A good day begins with a care fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7208	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7229	Mr President. Mr Fekter! Ladies and gentlemen! I need a few things... – I think you see how necessary a conversion is. [[When leaving the speaker's desk, the wheelchair of the Abg is ready. Dr. Huainigg in the cable of the microphone of Federal Minister Hundstorfer, which tore the microphone out of his anchorage.]] It should be so that a wheelchair driver with his wheelchair behind the speaker’s desk can also turn around. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I just need to make a few things clear, because otherwise something remains, which is simply not so. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, I would like to ask you to see the opinion of pension insurance, which is identical to the opinion of the main association, on the one hand, and on the other hand to note that opinions by institutions may not always take sufficient account of all that exists in European jurisdiction. There is a European Judicature from 2001, the case of Jauch, which, if you get the documents for this case, I can then tell you the file number and everything, will show you that the case example is not so possible. [[Abg. Kickl: It's all in there anyway!]] It is exactly the other way round. In this case, someone who has to apply for the care allowance in the Federal Republic of Germany and who also receives the German care allowance is affected. Get the documents for this Judicatur, because that is how it is operated. This has been the case since 2001. And now you can shake your head as you like, it's what's been done since 2001, we've been living it since 2001. - Point one. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you think that my example in the Committee was not quite the reality, here too an open word: This is reality in the federal states. That's what the federal states are doing in part. And we had to take this into account in the explanations of the Federal Law. I can't ignore that in some federal states today, it's a reality that they say I give you the benefits and not the money. There are valid notifications. And we agreed that the valid decisions will continue to be executed. And as a result, we do it that way. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I know I didn't follow a use of the house completely because I was the last to report, but I had to report as the last one because I had to report outside of the television broadcast time. That's why I'm the last one. So there's no misunderstanding. Mr Ing. Hofer, I strongly condemn the crime that happened in Vorarlberg. There we are, I believe, all of us agree. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, the topic is as follows: There is someone who has probably committed this crime, unfortunately we still have no judgment, but before he has committed it and before he has received the I-Pension, we have acquired 101 insurance months in Austria. [[Abg. That's how many pre-punishments you've made!]] Look, Mr Strache, he's bought 101 insurance months in Austria, he's hacked whatever. He has, if you calculate, since his 15th birthday. Heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, Since he was in a day and night operation and the Vorarlberg industry pays well, you get a certain I-pension. [[Abg. Street: The eight years of work have made up €1,000 net!]] No, look, that's wrong again. They've been superficial, misinformed, as always. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Completely superficial, misinformed. [[Recent appeal to SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: There are women with 400 € gross board!]] With easy bending of data protection: Its gross pension is 1 150 €. This is a slight bend of data protection. And then I can ask you a question: How do you get an I-pension in Austria? Do you even know that? [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] Do you know you need three different opinions? [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] [[Abg. Strache: He got a stamp from the magistrate!]] Look, just as wrong. It is not a single opinion issued by a woman. Everything superficially awakening original instincts. The fact is, there are three opinions from three experts. There are three diagnostics, one of them is poisons, two are something else. Three diagnostics! All this hurts me in the soul, too, that the fool did it there. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But I also have an Austrian social security system, whose principles I cannot break because of original instincts, just because one commits a crime. I can't! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] And that's what we need to stick to. Further – then I'll stop –: The whole thing is, of course, temporary as always, all invalidity pensions are limited, and you know that as well as I do. I hope that it will soon be properly condemned. Just for information, Mr. Ing. Hofer: There is no care allowance in the port. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7399	I call Mr Fichtenbauer. 3 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7430	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I actually did not want to speak on this subject, which is under the professional inspectorate of our colleague Herbert Kickl. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, there's no reason to roar around in such serious things. It's not a primal instinct if someone in this house is upset by the fact that a criminal is killing a three-year-old. Where are we?- Oh, my God! That's incredible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is, of course, a cross-sectional matter. For years, children's and relief institutions are watching how the child is being tormented. They also live on taxpayers' money. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] What are they for? The poor guy has already had to flee to the roof, the police have had to rescue him. Everyone watch! And then you must not be upset that it is critically illuminated that the murderer is a recipient of pension benefits. [[Abg. No single case!]] Of course, there is no doubt that, Mr Federal Minister, there is no doubt about this. It is also not necessary to fall into clichés when valid decrees are executed. Austria is to be referred to as the rule of law in this regard. But I can bring you big files, where it is proven that other people who are extremely in need of pensions do not receive a pension – despite different certificates from experts! From my law firm, I can bring you the act of one leg. A single-legged 55-year-old didn't get an early retirement pension or invalidity pension, because the experts say it's up to him – he didn't even live in Vienna – that he's going at least 500 meters to the next train station where he has to change. All of this to him. Another example: A person who has been found by the best Austrian neurology expert to be unhealable neurologically ill has not received a pension because the official expert said he could not recognize anything. [[Abg. Strache: But the pre-punished immigrant gets one!]] Dozens of such cases exist. Each individual would be worthy to deal with it in detail. My excitement is based on the fact that we speak of reflections of unwarranted kind regarding a child murderer of fears or, what I know, what you have said. The thing is simply that it is characterized in many ways by large human dramas, where there is no remedy. But if a 25-year-old murderer is a pensioner, you will still be allowed to get upset in this house.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7501	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7522	Mr Fichtenbauer, please do not! Every emotion is understandable. But we are not actually discussing emotions here, but we are discussing, I hope, how to improve the situation of people in need of care. [[Call the FPÖ:The Minister already!]] [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The one thing, namely the situation and the improvement for people in need of care, has nothing to do with what you want to know now and discuss all the time! What's this about? – Again: Whoever commits a crime deserves a penalty. No matter who abuses children, kills or else commits a crime against children, regardless of nationality, he deserves a conviction if he has committed the crime. Sure! But, please, what does this have to do with this debate? What does it have to do with the fact that there are people – Austrians, Serbs, other nationals – who receive social benefits regardless of their age? For example, the 55-year-old person with a leg, I say to you: If it were after the FPÖ in Vorarlberg, then this person would have no chance at all to receive an invalidity pension because the FPÖ there, based on the debate on these 25-year-olds, has made a request for an intensification of the right of invalidity pension. – Unfortunately, the realities look like this too! [[Call the FPÖ: This is false!]] That means: You are here, representing the 55-year-olds or acting as if you were representing him, and at the same time your colleagues in the federal states are using this case to demand even harder and more brutal regulations than the right to do on this issue. No doubt it is not easy – and the Minister has also explained that – to be sure, it is not easy, whether you are 25, 35 or 55 years old, whether you are Austrian or Serbian or other national, and whether you are working here for an invalidity pension. You should take this opportunity to discuss how you can change this – but not swing with cheap emotions!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7579	I call Mr Klubobmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7601	Mr National Council President! Mr Sozialminister! Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think you have to make this clear. If today of the 25-year-old elderly person who lived in Vorarlberg, It will be necessary to inform the Austrians very well that this is a person who has been punished several times because he was a violent culprit. Now we can discuss the fact that, as you rightly said, every human being, whatever citizenship, can be condemned accordingly. Yes, of course! If it is an Austrian violent culprit – and unfortunately we have more than enough of it – then it is also condemned and, if necessary, arrested. If we have to deal with immigrants who are multiple violent offenders and have also been sentenced accordingly, then they have also to be arrested – but then sometime also to be reported. But that's not what happens! [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] We alone had 70,000 foreign offenders last year, but this federal government is looking and not taking any dissociation, while such a person as this criminal, as we have heard today, could receive 1 150 € at the age of 24, as confirmed – we have had a higher sum, and it is supposed to be 1,300 € per month – at pension. On the other hand, there are mothers, women we are talking about today, women who have done something for a lifetime that goes into retirement at 65 years of age with 400, 450 €. That is something that no citizen understands: that there are such social abuse systems in Austria! And we want to turn them off from the FPÖ in contrast to you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is what we are discussing: that it cannot be that today in this country there is the situation that a woman of 15. ==References====External links== Years of life have worked hard, but as high a gross pension as this 24-year-old has several pre-punished violent offenders after a few years of insurance! – No one in this country understands that! And that's where we want to sit! In fact, they continue to lay down precisely such misunderstandings by this law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is precisely why we are vehemently opposed to such social abuse systems! That's what it's all about! And we will continue to make clear your failures and mistakes and point out to the population, just as the PVA and the Social Security Institute have rightly done. We'll keep this to you again and again. There you can make yourself a hundred times here and say that you have to see that in a total context. Yes, just as the quotations are to be understood, otherwise they would not have happened and would not have been read in any protocol.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7688	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. 3 minutes of speaking time are adjusted in a wishful manner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7709	On the comments of my two previous speakers, only two or three comments. Note 1: When Mr Nikolić comes to Vienna and says that if the FPÖ is in the government, the Serbs will feel like they are at home – that is what the Serb in Vorarlberg will have thought. It's a sergeant. [[Abg. Ing. Honey: What a fool that is!]] If you're really flattening here, we're going to go straight ahead and then the FPÖ already needs an explanation! Packing up is always a bit problematic. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But I have another purchase: Social abuse. – You talk to the moral authority that is claimed here when you take care of cleanliness in your own store. Dear colleague Strache, I call you a 55-year-old municipal councillor in a low-Austrian capital, who went in early retirement and is beside Boxtrainer, who for the time being became conspicuous. He was rejected, because of domestic violence, he was given a judicial direction and then returned to the municipal council via the intervention of the FPÖ leadership. [[Abg. Ing. Hibart: No, wrong!]] So how is that now? – If you fight violence and social abuse, start right in your own ranks! Then you can talk out here with a certain moral authority. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One last suggestion: Mr. Federal Minister, if it is the case that there is no disability pension in the port... I'm quoting you now. By the way, I was a little impressed by your statement here today, which was a bit more handy, let's say it so, hand-resistant, even better, yes, even in the choice of words I would not have dared to use like that, but please! [[Abg. Grosz: Hand firmer, at the microphone!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I'll make it even more precise: Which I wouldn't even dare to use like that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: No one really believes that!]] Federal Minister, one last suggestion: Let's make it the same way that the invalidity pension for the duration of the U-port is already deleted even if U-haft is imposed. Then it is ensured that not anyone with a U-port of several months has a claim to this benefit. This claim should be suspended, because in prison care, in an accommodation he is cared for, because he really does not need a disability pension. Then we can save ourselves such debates.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7810	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Pilz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7831	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. I was new to the proposal that someone who has committed a serious criminal offence should be denied the pension insurance contributions he has paid. This is an original new proposal from the Freedom Party. I'm just wondering if this should apply to all serious crimes. If Mr Scheuch – which is not the case at present – is condemned for a serious offence, should he be denied his pension insurance entitlements? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Head of State!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am ready so that there is no misunderstanding here to make the necessary dozens of presumptions of innocence available on the stockpiles of the Freedom Party, for there is certainly not alone there. Just, don't forget one: There may be a serious offence, perhaps a criminal conviction – but this is not about a minimum pension, but it is about a government pension! And what about Mrs Winter? [[Abg. Strache: And what about freedom of expression?]] What about dozens of other criminal liberties? They're supposed to go to a political board? And only then, when it meets another one, do you have to know everything and take everything away? – No, Mr Klubobmann Strache! I recommend you: Explain this proposal born from this discussion! Describe the serious offense! And don't save the culprits who have become free! [[Abg. You mean yourself! You're legally condemned, aren't you?- Oh, my God!]] I do not understand that legally condemned offenders should no longer receive pensions without a free party book, while those with a free party book may be able to receive government pensions. That is at least contrary to the principle of equality! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e7919	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Care money reform law 2012 in 1287 of the supplements. Mr Csörgits, Mr Wöginger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Ing. Hofer before. I shall therefore, first of all, be able to vote on the parts of the legislative proposal concerned with the request for separate vote and finally vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since amendments to the Federal Constitutional Act as well as constitutional provisions are included in the present draft law and in the aforementioned amendment, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Wöginger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which contains amendments to Rule 1(2). Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an important sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2(5), as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Demonstrative applause with SPÖ and ÖVP and acclaim of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, Dr Huainigg, Ursula Haubner, Mr Ing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 186.) We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1288 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1289 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1290 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1291 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1292 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by the majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1293 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This too is largely accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1294 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This too is largely accepted. [[13:29:22]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1207, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a care fund and granting a grant to countries to secure and build up the care and care services offered in the long-term care for the years 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 (PFG) (1286 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8100	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8127	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs Schwentner, you said in the last debate that we must be glad that there are foreign forces that are capable of caring for people here at all. – I can only tell you: For me, this is a very clear view, which you represent here, because the people who care for here make the profession a vocation. And so you should not speak of “antun. ” And above all things: If you had already agreed to our request two years ago, namely to implement the care profession as a teaching profession, we would have independent young people and would no longer need foreign forces. That's how it looks! And that is the point where we liberals differ from you to the Greens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the care fund. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Helmut Qualtinger once said: I don't know where I want to go yet, but I'll be there faster for that! – That’s what happens to me about today with the care fund. You don't know how this care fund should be fed at all. You don't know who to pay for this care fund. The budget estimated 1.2 percent to take care of the care. I just remember Denmark: Denmark has estimated exactly the double for this area, which is 2.4 percent. You have so far remained guilty to us of any explanation of who should pay this at all. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can prophesy to you: It is likely that the people of this country will have to get back into the bag. After more than 30 attacks on their wallets alone since 1. In January of this year, where the people of our country were once more asked to pay for the cash, it will probably be so that new charges from these care funds are to be fed. And we will certainly not carry that with us. In addition, there are many institutions that have always and rightly criticised this draft. I just remember that the Caritas and other organizations are massively criticising this bill, that the Bar Association criticises the draft and that there is great ambiguity in the use of anonymous data. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft, which is to be passed as a law today, is not a suitable means for the future to provide the care system in Austria with a truly viable solution. We will therefore refuse to accept this motion for a law.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8188	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Oberhauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8209	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Neubauer, you have said that people who care do so out of deep conviction and not from other motives. Mr President, these people deserved to have held the discussion on Agenda item 1 on the subject – and not that, with polemic examples, which are always the same and are always the same, a discussion should be drawn in a direction that they do not deserve. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Did we?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Nothing you have denied!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Until you understand it, we will do it for so long!]] What we've noticed lately is that whenever the FPÖ goes out the arguments, it's trying to lead the discussion into a foreigner's hatred, hatred or other direction of discussion. [[Abg. Silhavy: Hetze!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: If you represent the interests of Austria, the “hetze” is!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Take note that we are domestic friendly!]] An appeal to all of us: Perhaps we should try not to go into this discussion any more, but to talk about what is here and now, namely the really great achievements and great things people do in the care, and the great steps we have taken to improve the situation for these people. [[Complementary of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Therefore, let me now talk about the creation of the care fund. Mr Neubauer, you have said that you do not know where the money comes from. – I can tell you: Two thirds of the countries, one third of the federal government, are based on the preferential financial compensation agreements. [[Abg. Neubauer: We did not receive an answer!]] You only need to read the text of the law on page 1, down below, under § 2 there is exactly how these funds are divided. So read – and then talk about it! It is €685 million that we take on board, which is at the same time an employment boost for about 29 000 jobs. The trade unions have already said that investments in care are, of course, not only investment in people, but also investment in the labour market. A lot has already been talked about on the question of care providers at the previous item on the agenda, so let me talk about something more, namely the question of these care service databases and statistics. I believe that this is a very great progress, that we have for the first time succeeded in getting data from the federal states that are evaluated by Statistics Austria, because then we know exactly how much is the number of persons cared for, which service units, which types of costs it is and how high is the number of care and caregivers. For the first time, we have the opportunity to compare Austria, and we may then be able to control these things uniformly by means of the means. I believe that Minister Hundstorfer really does not have to generate for these laws, for this administrative simplification that he is presenting here today, but we – quite the contrary – can be really proud of it. The Finance Ministers Fekter and Pröll have also shown how proud they are of what Rudi Hundstorfer has done in his position as Social Minister by passing this performance on to all Austrians by means of the media, in the form of advertisements.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8343	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8365	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! You have agreed in your government timetable, with this package, with this care fund law the care financing is to be solved. - But she's not solved. From our point of view, this is a label failure, because funding is limited until 2014, that is, until the next election. It is not a fund in the truest sense with its own legal personality, but a bridge fund. It is also unclear how it continues after 2014; a working group is announced for this purpose. And incomprehensible why one will pay the administrative burden for the care database from this fund, which reduces it by € 170 000 again. A nursing database is positive, is good, I'm just wondering why it hasn't come before. The funds are to be used primarily for non-stationary purposes. Practice will show what is happening in each region. Where you have many nursing homes with relatively expensive, expensive beds, you will of course have to invest in the stationary area, because ultimately the communities pay there. For the communities, this is only a small breathing break that they have until 2014 so that the costs do not rise to the immeasurable. As has already been said in the last debate: We will not agree to this because it is not a uniform overall approach, because there is still no sustainable funding. The question of financing is unsolved. The responsibilities are also unclear. And we also believe that if we discuss the health reform, then care must not be left out. So it is something we cannot agree with, as has been said. I would like to conclude with a quote from Dr. Chalupka of the deacony who said to this nursing fund, it is “fresh money in old hoses”. In this comment, Dr. Chalupka adds: “Let us not be too blind about the small successes, because 20 years after the introduction of the care allowance, Austria needs a comprehensive care solution! We need offers that meet the needs of the caregivers everywhere and are manageable for everyone. This is not guaranteed at the moment.” There's nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8411	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8432	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I consider this installation of the care fund to be a very important step and also a milestone, especially in times like this, where we have budgets to consolidate, where we have one of the most serious financial and economic crises behind us. I would also like to express my respect that these €685 million are a very essential and important contribution to the future security of our care system in Austria. Two-thirds of the federal government, one-third of the countries. It was addressed by you today, Mr Oellinger, that we have made changes in the budget accompanying law at Stages 1 and 2. Yes, that's true because it was necessary to get the budget back on track. But it is not true that this saved amount is now the amount of these 685 million. [[Abg. Oellinger: Federal contribution!]] The Federal contribution, Mr Oellinger, is also EUR 100 million. There are 347 million to the federal share of 456 million, and in fact the money of the countries and communities must also be taken into account, i.e. € 685 million. That means that this is not the case – and I therefore do not want to leave it that way. What's going on in the Care Fund Act? – The Care Fund Act regulates the division, use and billing. It is a budget allocation to countries and municipalities. And this “and communities” is particularly important to me because there is an obligation in the law that these funds should be allocated to the communities to which community associations must be passed. It is the communities, ladies and gentlemen, who have to bear the main burden in the field of care. That is why I think it is really necessary and good that the following sentence is in the law: ‘Member States shall... be obliged to provide the municipalities with resources in accordance with the ratio to their actual and proven net expenditure on long-term care services per calendar year.’ This is a very important sentence and means that the money, for example in Upper Austria, comes from this fund to the country and the country is obliged to pass it on to local associations, say SAVs. This will ensure that these cost increases are covered over the next four years. We owe it to our communities too, ladies and gentlemen. That is why it is a good, a right and an important law that we will decide here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, there is another set of statistics on care services. I also believe that it is important that we collect the data to a proper extent, so that the structural working group, which has already been mentioned several times, can set the course for the post-2014 period. This is, of course, a necessity that we now need to address in order to ensure that care funding can be secured after 2014. But this is now a first important step in the sense of people in need of care and above all in the sense of our communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8481	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8502	Mr President. Mr Schönegger! Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti! In our series “The heroic and henlike behaviour of the Styrian ÖVP” and in order to give you the opportunity to display an independent voting behaviour here, I may present for you three motions for resolutions tabled by Members Grosz, Schenk, Spadiut, List, Members and Members, all of whom are petitions to the Federal Government on the basis of decisions made by the Styrian ÖVP, including in the Graz municipal council. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I put the first motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to establish a needs and development plan to ensure the future need for care and care, which sets out the quantitative and qualitative needs of caregivers and their training requirements in accordance with the ICN competence model (International Council of Nurses). The second motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to resolve the financing of risk care through an appropriate, future-proof and sustainable financing system in such a way that care need does not become a financial risk for people.” Third motion for a resolution – in the series “Independent behaviour of the Styrian ÖVP” – : The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to submit a draft law to the National Council, which provides a central body such as the Federal Ministry of Health or the Austrian Ministry. ==References====External links== Health Austria GmbH/ÖBIG is commissioned to perform a mandatory national registration of all qualified nurses, while respecting data protection.’ I should like to ask you to judge your Styrian Members that we will, of course, see to it that they agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8582	The three motions for resolutions tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8720	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8741	Mr Grosz, like these three requests: It is mildly funny and probably only moderately successful, what you are trying to do with these applications that have not yet been discussed. They also differ in quality. We believe that the one application for a plan of needs and development to ensure the future needs for care and care is a good one. The other two applications do not really matter in substance. So why should we say goodbye to these now? There's nothing in there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] But now I'm coming back to the real topic. It is also important to me, even if I see this differently from the colleague Haubner, to bear: We want a sustainable care fund. Sustainable care funds mean that it should be based on its own legal personality, it should also have competence to raise the actual need for care not only scientifically, but also with the federal states implementing strategies to agree on action plans et cetera, to make binding agreements as to how to organize the whole. That would be – and I would think a lot more about what I cannot accommodate in the few minutes of speech – my idea of a real care fund. But we're still far away from that. The municipalities receive money, Mr Wöginger noted. I can imagine that there are very concrete agreements with the local authorities, the services to be provided and how much money they get for them. But that must be ensured, debated, organized and planned in a form that makes the whole sense. Here I am at the point where I think – yes, the glass half full, half empty, where I hope – that it cannot afford a party in this country to say by the year 2014: Command back! We will take back the funds we have given by 2014 again! – That’s one thing that’s optimistic about me. The other thing: I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, after we have given you some relief with regard to the financial compensation for the care money, that you look a little bit at the countries as far as this nursing database is concerned. There I have the serious fear that, Although data are now coming from the Länder, which may look the same as in the case of social assistance for decades, it is not comparable. Not comparable! Then what do we do? I already know that the Ministry of Social Affairs will also be behind it, because otherwise it doesn't make any sense at all if the countries provide different data. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, we are expecting you to be determined or to make a consistent and persistent commitment to this issue. Otherwise, the project nursing database and care funds will unfortunately not get well over the start-up ramp, and we all wish that. That is why we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8799	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8820	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to speak for a moment. First of all: It is clear that we are now providing additional security with the money for the next four years. This additional security is of course not one-sided giving and taking. We are trying very well, and it is also clear that if, for example, there is no data, there is no money either. That's a simple answer. [[Abg. Riepl: That's right!]] We'll do everything we can to make it work. I note that you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, from the party that always believes it represents the “little man”, are not in favour of disbursing €685 million, that you are not in favour of securing and further developing care services, that you are opposed to the relief of communities and countries, that you are opposed to the possibility of more mobile services being offered, and that you are against the fact that the 28 000 jobs in this area will be better secured. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, I do! But not in this form!]] I take note of that. That's what it's all about. That is the ratio of your behaviour. There is no other ratio, because You know very well that we are working on it and are committed to securing the broader approach to the new financial balance. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah, now it's the financial compensation again!]] You know that – and you know very well, people want this security. To give these safeguards, you have to agree today. [[Abg. Kickl: You could have organized this completely differently!]] Not to be present today means to leave the people in ignorance. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: The people already understand this correctly!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] That's probably what you want. We want to leave people in safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8914	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8935	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If many were thanked this morning and there was, as it were, already a ritual to thank women and men and whoever else else else, I think it is worth a compliment that has really been successful here. I am personally grateful that I can live in a country where politics has always attached an appropriate value to the social field and wherever we are concerned. Progress has been made on the basis of social policy developments. If today a group is told – pro and counter – that approval is denied, because the provision of funds does not appear to appear, please read the first page of the government template. It is clear that: “The funds of the care fund will be deducted prior to the distribution of the Community federal contributions in accordance with the 2008 Financial Balance Act (FAG 2008), BGBl. I No. 103/2007 as amended by the Federal Law XXX/2011.’ So you just have to read it, you don’t need to “violins ” here, then you can deal with the matter. Point two, it was spoken of in 2014: Yes, 2014 is a new financial compensation, and I think it is time to focus on the continuation of this care fund. I think there is no one who is thinking of an attitude or a withdrawal of this measure. This year we donate the fund with €100 million, next year with €150 million, 2013 with €200 million and 2014 with € 235 million. I can also partially understand the opinion when you say that we owe it to the communities. – Well, sometimes they are already means of reading the blessings of the rural days, where a great deal is being done without asking who is paying for it. – Now, in the context of the coverage of these expenses, the federal government has come up with €685 million for four years. That's praiseworthy! What's this about? We are getting older – you all know – and often the family is missing – we talk too little about it, the overload of the caring relatives is very often given, and therefore it makes sense to expand mobile services, to continue building nursing homes, to create day centers, to develop alternative forms of housing, to make case and care management and to meet people as a whole, because at the end of the day, politics has the task of understanding the needs, desires, expectations and concerns of people and also to take the corresponding legislative measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e8990	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Maij-Weggen. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9012	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am also grateful for the fact that this law can be passed today, as well as for the measures we have already adopted by a large majority, because both express what great appreciation we show to those who are caring for and who are in need of care. Many previous speakers have already mentioned that there will, of course, be more and more improvements, and that this care fund, which we decide today, can be just another step to secure and expand the high level of care in Austria. This is also the content of this bill: that this care fund has given the countries the opportunity will continue to develop the large network of mobile home care and in stationary facilities – and it is certainly necessary that we continue to develop it. I would also like to point out, on this occasion, that we have the opportunity to reduce the large disparities that are currently present in care through the different national legislation. If I think only of the fact that the mobile home care system in Upper Austria is financed by the public sector to 82 percent, but only 45 percent in the Burgenland, then you can see on your own the different range of tensions that exist, and this is ultimately to be reduced. I too would like to take advantage of this opportunity and I would like to thank all those who really have to say this profession: this vocation – because I know from my own experience with our employees in the Burgenische Hilfewerk – at least 300 colleagues, with whom I would like to thank myself very much; 97 percent of them are women, because care is undoubtedly female –: What these people do is only paid by the salaries with a drop on the hot stone; they would earn more! We will make more money available to reduce this inequality. I would like to thank all those who will agree to this care fund law. I'm sure it's being applied properly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9057	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. If you wish, 2 minutes of speaking time will be set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9078	Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! Three hours of debate on the care package – let me get to the point: What improvements do today's reforms make? – Quite clearly: Anyone who needs care will get it, be quiet and in the highest quality. The care is financially secured for the next few years. The pot is full of the new care fund. There's a lot of money being taken in the hand: € 685 million will be added to the care until 2014. Important is: What happens to the money? – There are also improvements: The millions are given a “masserl”, a dedication of purpose, for better care for the needy and their families, for the development and construction of mobile services, for short-term care – that is what we need – and for the expansion of alternative forms of housing. That's what we want! Further progress: It's over with the bureaucracy in the care money – we've heard it. Instead of 303 places that pay the care money, it's only more than eight. Who's the use of this? – The caregiver! They will come to their money faster and easier. Bravo! How's it going? The care fund is limited to 2014. Afterwards, there will be a comprehensive, sustainable, courageous care concept. We're working on it and it's gonna work just as well. Conclusion: No one has to worry that he will not be able to afford his care in the future. There is safety, there are reliefs and improvements for those in need, and that is the decisive thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9127	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1207 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, colleagues, on the implementation of separate initiatives by ÖVP Styria – Part X: Ensure future care and care needs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, colleagues, on the implementation of separate initiatives by ÖVP Styria – Part X: Financing of risk care. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of independent initiatives by ÖVP Styria – Part X: national registration of all qualified care workers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this, to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Grosz: For the Minutes: Parliamentary Schönegger... in plenary, and MEPs Steibl was there too!]] [[14:00:22]] 10. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 122/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on the rights of care of laymen (1295 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1454/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues on the introduction of a ‘Gütesiegel Personalepflege’ (1296, e.g.) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1612/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the promotion of professional change in the care and care sector (1297 d. B.) 13. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from Mr Karl Ollinger, colleagues in the field of nursing children and young people (1298/B.) 14. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the promotion of day care for those in need of care (1299, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9227	We now come to points 10 to 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9255	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give you an example of how people in need of care are doing if they suddenly get into a situation where they need someone to help. It's about a couple: The wife takes care of the husband, as is often the case, who needs to be helped by a stroke, a heart attack and other diseases. Very suddenly, the case occurs that the wife becomes ill, has a stomach hemorrhage, therefore must go to the hospital and has difficulty in continuing to care for the spouse to this extent, because after surgery she must not lift more than five kilograms. One is looking very urgently and very quickly for someone who becomes active in a 24-hour service and will find an agency in the same federal state offering to teach people who have a corresponding training, knowledge and experience. The Agency collects an amount of around €1,000 for mediation and actually sends after a few days a young person from Slovakia with the promise that they are someone who has experience in the field of care, which can also run the budget, which can also cook in order to accomplish the necessary activities. A young man named Edi comes from Slovakia. He is a learned car mechanic, cannot cook, has never performed care activities and is completely inexperienced. After a short time – even Edi was unhappy because he did not like this activity too – the agency sends another person from the same country, a very young, 18-year-old lady, who has also never done care and care services, with the result that the woman who should not actually work here not only “bought” his own husband, but also the caregiver who now lives in the household. This is the big problem, and that is why we need this seal of quality for personal care, because it is usually the case that people who have no experience in this area at all, and that, unfortunately, there are agencies that really use this emergency situation of people who need people quickly, and demand very, very much money, not only those in need of care, but also those mostly young people from neighbouring countries who become active in that country. This is a real care mafia that has developed in Austria, because there are not only official agencies, but also because within these caregivers crystallize people who convey other caregivers – black, under the hand. This often goes so far as to allow these caregivers to leave by car with the spouse of the mediator and not to take a bus because there is also a need to pay. So it has developed a real little mafia that deserves very well with care benefits, care services in Austria. I think you should put the craftsmanship in order to ensure real professional support in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That, Mr Federal Minister, is this example which I know very well from the nearer surroundings, where I accompanied people and also participated in the District Headquarters, at the Chamber of Commerce, to report people and so on. I believe that there is a real need to improve something here, and I am very much looking for you – even though this proposal will not find a majority today – to become active in this area in order to avoid abuse in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9315	Mr Spindelberger spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9336	Mr Haubner, I would like to address one of your many requests, namely the request you have made to Federal Minister Hundstorfer to finance future professional change in the care profession. I would like to point out clearly that the Federal Government – and this should not have been forgotten here – launched a qualification offensive in this health and care sector last year, in which the labour market service alone has trained or continued to provide around 5,000 people in the health and care sector in 2010. You know very well that the focus of this qualification funded by the AMS was, among other things, training as a home helper, but also as a care assistant. In this context, however, I do not wish to mention that these trainings were also offered on a part-time basis, in order to facilitate the entry into working life of the new entrants, just as your application says. But why we have rejected your request, Mr Haubner, is quite simply: The task of the labour market service is certainly not to finance those people who already have a job and are anchored in professional life, training and training measures for their dream job – or as you have formulated it – for those people for whom they are motivated, but the task of the AMS is quite clear to prevent or eliminate unemployment in the sense of an active labour market policy, while safeguarding social and economic principles. In my opinion, if you are not angry, but in the sense of the insured community, that is, all employees and all employers, from whose contributions these measures are ultimately financed, it would be the wrong approach, as you have called for, to want to promote all the qualification measures in the future, just because at the time some of them are just motivating on this or ever It is not only an active labour market policy, but also – and it must be said quite openly – the financial framework in which we are dealing with this issue. To conclude, perhaps: Explain to me what employer would in future finance any training or training measures for his employees if everything were to be taken over by the public. These were, in short, the reasons why we could not approach your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9388	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9409	Actually, ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to speak about the request, which, of course, makes us the greatest joy, because it was originally a request from the Greens, which was supported by all the parties, for which I also thank myself and where the problem now does not exist or should exist, that we send the underlying topic of nursing children on the journey with a study, but where, in fact, the start should take place now – and in part, via media – that we draw attention to the problem. There is this problem, there are these children, and it is important to raise the sensitivity of all those concerned around them, whether the authorities, families or other institutions. If this is so initiated and supported by the study and if the result of this study is what you can do for these children, which will often only be the opportunity to talk, then a lot has already happened. But we should start it now and not wait until the study is done. That would be my suggestion. - Point one. Point two: Mr Hofer has already discovered a “Mafia” again. I am the last one who would not see the problem of 24-hour care, and I am one who demands from all of us, but of course especially from the government, that you can't just look at this and make an interim solution so unsightly a permanent solution. The fact is – and that is indisputable – that there is, of course, a growing gray area in the area of 24-hour care and care. The fact is that the caregivers come from more and more distant countries because the neighbouring countries already have a wage level, in view of which they are no longer dependent on working with us. And with that I describe the other part of the problem of 24-hour care. It is actually a shame that we want to do this and do it, because on these conditions, on which these people are employed, of course, there is no one who would do a similar job in Austria. That's how it looks! To construct a “mafia” from it, because the people agree and try to improve their conditions or the conditions of the employees, that is really beyond! A mafia is a completely different organization: She tries to gain political rule, tries to instrumentalize political rule with criminal means – and that has nothing to do with it. Nevertheless, you don't need to find that well, just: If you call anyone and anyone who looks a little darker or something like a mafia, then we are surrounded by billions of mafiosi and need only fear us more. If that's what you wanted, it would be a little too much to demand.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9454	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9476	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there would be much to say now in this block, but I would just like to address this one request, namely our joint amendment tabled by the Committee, which has been unanimously decided on the issue of looking closer to the situation of children and young people, caring for parents at home. I have to admit that this was not so conscious of me, but once you look more closely and think and look in the circle of acquaintances, you can see what is happening there, also in tragedy, because childhood or youth cannot be lived out. It is therefore all the more necessary to look at that and possibly to take action. This also fits well with the agenda items that we had before, because we are also dealing with the care sector today, and this is about the closest family association, which is about life at home. This study, which will now be commissioned by the Federal Minister, will not last for three years. You know, if you want, it goes relatively fast, and I know that the Federal Minister wants it. And then we'll take the next steps. I am all the more pleased – and I should like to say this once again – about this common approach, which is also a novum and is a good sign for the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9509	Mr Hundstorfer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9530	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofer, full agreement when it comes to our desire to have the highest possible quality, to offer and to offer the highest possible quality. I can only tell you: I don't speak well here at all, but we have 2 400 control tests per year at the 24-hour care of the competence center that we have established at the SV Farmers. In these 2 400 control tests per year, we have a quota of approval, of 95 per cent. At 5 percent, approval is somewhat weakened. Of course, if there is an blatant misunderstanding somewhere, it will be done immediately. I've only got one big bit: I can only do something about all the administrative authorities, a supposed mafia, if I know. If you say – I have already asked you to do so – I actually have A, B, C, D!, then please put us on the table specifically A, B, C, D! [[Abg. Kickl:... the case!]] No, it didn't come, it's always just the example. I need to know where, I need to know when, because then I can show it to the commercial authority. This is a problem for the commercial authorities. It's always that way in life: We are all in favour of the fact that there is no crime, no question at all, and we are all in favour of the persecution of criminals. We just need to know. And that's exactly the subject here. If there is a blatant misunderstanding – which I don't even want to dispute; such a one will already exist where the crowd of people who are being cared for here – and one knows of it: Please, the facts on the table, because then we can activate the commercial authorities, activate health authorities and can proceed accordingly! In our checks, I can say that the frequency of maladministration is very, very small to almost not at all. However, we still have a high quality of control investigations because these are, of course, carried out by highly qualified experts. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9567	Mrs Haubner is next spoken. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9588	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to refer to two requests made by Mr Dolinschek and I. Firstly, on the request concerning the promotion of day care for people in need of care. – I think that is something that will become a very important issue in a future overall concept, because 80 to 85 percent of people are still being cared for and cared for by family members, and the discharge of caring relatives is a great concern to all of us, I believe. This discharge can take place at different levels, and one possibility is that you can give your family hours, day by day, into qualified day care. There are already good examples in the individual regions, even in the individual communities, but many things are very much based on volunteering, on voluntaryity, on personal organisation, and I think one should not ignore this day-care even in terms of a hopefully coming overall concept, then also provided with the appropriate standards and criteria. The second request to which Mr Spindelberger has already referred is the promotion of professional change in the care and care sector. We must not close our eyes here, either, that there has been a qualification measure – on the contrary, nothing to say is more positive – but we still have a great need for qualified nurses. This is a drop on the hot stone, and that is why we have to consider what we can do. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It can't be that in the future we always rely only on getting nurses from the neighbouring countries. Now we are very happy about it, but sometime that will end or it will be less. That is why we need to see how – and I say yet again to motivate the word – people who are also suitable for motivating more to enter the care area? An example is the voluntary social year. Nothing's happened here yet. I know this is a favorite topic of mine, Mr Federal Minister, and I am still waiting and I hope. But the voluntary social year is something that motivates young people to choose it as a profession. Here you have to set the course accordingly. Or: Why don’t we really discuss the teaching profession “care and care ” in a professionally serious round? This is also something for young people. We must also be interested in young people who are becoming less and less interested in this area. The promotion of professional change is a small segment, but there are so many examples, so many cases referred to me where people say: I want to do this! I do not want to do this out of a mood and lust, but because I am just convinced to be able to make my contribution here because that is my job! – And I have to get out of work first to be supported?- Oh, my God! That can't be it: First I become unemployed so that I get all the benefits, but if I am in an existing employment relationship and want to be re-educated, then I get nothing! The fact that it is a problem is that, if I have heard it correctly, the social representatives discussed it at their last conference in Linz, and they have also asked you, Mr Federal Minister, to find a solution. I would like to do nothing else with this request, or I would also like to encourage you to think that, in the future, in an overall concept of care, we need to involve a lot of areas where we have been addressing a few things until now, but not for a long time what is possible, so that care is really ensured at all levels in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9656	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9677	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have dealt very closely with the five motions for resolutions, but we have not been able to give them our support on various grounds in the Social Fund. For example, when a request calls for the extension of the rights to care of laymen: That's good and nice if you think so, but have you ever thought that the loadability here is also a factor? You can't say, because it just fits into the political programme: That's where we have to open everything! The people who take care of it here, including within the families, are subject to enormous stress; and we think that usually this is enough care. That is why we did not want to go further because the question of overload is an important criterion. To introduce the seal of goodness. – I have heard the discussion now with great interest: In the morning we are against every immigration, in the afternoon we acknowledge that we can no longer carry out important tasks in the country and still need immigration – which is right! That we cannot all take if the conditions are not met, and that there has been or is a failure here, that is not a question. But please, there we are all obliged to report, because reporting makes action possible. If you don't know, you can't stop it. A change in the legal system alone would not change things very much here. We are doing very detailed investigations – the Minister has already spoken about it – and there we are doing much more internal conflicts about the course of the care allowance, but not so much about the quality of care. A seal of goodness as such, I think, would not solve anything here. Rather, the problem here is solved by the care funds, which we have already discussed today and have also decided to have mobile facilities. The promotion of professional change. – This is, in part, a social recognition, and one must be honoured: the usability, the loadability and also the social competence. Only promote and say: Everyone should do everything in it, we don't see any meaning in it. And also to promote day care for people in need of care, a clear answer – even if you do not support them –: Care fund. We want to solve the problems on the ground, and I am convinced that we will succeed a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9725	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9747	Ladies and gentlemen! Thankfully, Mr Federal Minister, you have agreed to look at this company if I provide more detailed information. This is the company with the company's book number 260080x. This company currently manages – or lets care – 600 families, advertises on its homepage, a very well-designed homepage, thus advertising: We provide 24-hour workers to Austria and Germany from 39 € per day, including social insurance and so on. They say that our 24-hour caregivers speak German, conduct the household, cook according to the desired food plan, complete small purchases, pay attention to body care, mobilize them, and much more. There was no way I could talk about what I experienced – it was with my parents – and I would be very happy if you put such a company into the craftsmanship. Mr. Ollinger has previously criticized me for talking about a care mafia. I did not mean it, Mr Oellinger, that it is now, because it is people from abroad, a mafia, but here a system has developed, also in a community in the Burgenland. There lives a lady who means... – no matter what her name is – and is also from a country where many caregivers come from. And when you say, I urgently need someone who is caring for parents or an aunt, whoever!, then this name is called, then you call this lady, and she says, yes, she may have a girl there, that comes then and then. Then you want to make personal contact, but this is not allowed. One may only contact through this person X. And then this other young lady also has to pay for money to this second person, so that she is made available at all, and must not even go home alone by car, but with the minibus of the spouse of this mediator, this “black” mediator, go home, and also pay protection fees to the husband. That's what's so bad: that people are really being exploited! The person now affected has no overview. There are so many agencies present themselves here on the Internet to present themselves professionally, and I have no way to explain: Who is serious and who is not? And that's why this idea of really giving a seal of goodness here, so I know: It's a serious institution. People aren't being exploited.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9787	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1295 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1296 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1297 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to adopt the resolution relating to nursing children and young people annexed to the Committee's report 1298. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 187.) Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1299 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[14:28:59]] 15. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1221, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Civilian Vacation and Processing Act, the Workers' Protection Act, the Construction Labour Coordination Act, the Labour Inspection Act 1993 and the Transport Labour Inspectorate Act 1994 (1300 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9878	We are now on the agenda item 15. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kickl. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on behalf of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e9906	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Government's proposal is concerned, I shall start with the positive. This government template contains quite a number of useful measures which, on the one hand, I would say, the effectiveness of the building workers' holiday fund for itself on the other hand, but also the effectiveness in interaction with other authorities – keywords: Improve health insurance providers, financial police – with regard to the fight against social fraud. We can give this our assent. We will shape our voting behaviour in the way that we will first call for a separate vote to be approved at second reading, but at third reading we must also reject this law again, because you are doing something again, which we have already discussed under item 1 of the agenda today, namely: They brew an unwholesome mixed culture, where things are contained, where – and here I look at the comrades of social democracy and the trade unionists represented there – you can only ask why you are doing something like that, ladies and gentlemen. I was always of the opinion – and we are probably still of an opinion today – that we can work together everywhere and find ourselves where social fraud is concerned, where we are trying to create social fraud. But I have also thought, at least to this day and until the present decision, that we have a common procedure anywhere where it is about attacking the speculation inconsistencies, this casino mentality and the meticulous game of the rating agencies. At least I understood the very, very detailed statements made by Mr Cap on yesterday's day in this direction. We were actually of the opinion that you are serious about what you have announced. That is why it is all the more incomprehensible for us, ladies and gentlemen, that you are now going here – under the leadership of a Federal Minister, who in his past was the president of the trade union, and who was on his own body the consequences of a speculation disaster, keyword: Caribbean billions of losses, have felt – and these opportunities allow for the construction workers' holiday fund, in a form that is anything but safe. We're moving right into the field of speculation here, and you're on it! The union criticizes this – with the Hauberl as a trade unionist you stand up and say: That is irresponsible! with the Hauberl as a Member you sit in here and agree with these solutions. That is the very clear sense of social democracy, also in this matter, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They now allow this law to make it possible for the funds – I am now talking about holiday money, Christmas money, construction workers' claims; according to the Social Minister's information about €600 million a year – to be invested in government bonds in Euro from EEA countries in the future. This sounds very technical now, but if you translate it, we are in Greek bonds, Spanish bonds, perhaps Irish bonds, Portuguese bonds and any kind of bonds. And that is exactly what the trade union criticised for extending the possibility of indictment, for which there is no reason at all. So far, § 19 para. 4 so to speak, as a criterion of exposure, defines the ambiguity of the mouth. And mouthproof means that there is a corresponding cover for this capital and that the losses are also limited. You can't completely turn them off, but they're very limited. This passus is now raised by the fact that: You open up this possibility of indictment, and from our point of view that is irresponsible. It is interesting – and this must be taken into account – that, despite the fact that we have had a common currency for many years now, i.e. the euro, and that we have been in a position for many, many years now. The common economic area is that this SPÖ/ÖVP government has not been able to pass through to produce a legal situation – thank God, I say – by which the government bonds of other countries would have been classified as mouth-proof. That's not the case. There is only one form of oral government bonds, ladies and gentlemen, and these are the Austrian ones. - You're talking about the other government bonds. I understand, quite honestly, not how you can come to the idea of implementing it at a time like this. We have had experiences, Greek experiences, Portuguese experiences, Irish experiences, and you are now going here and putting the money of the construction workers out of these speculation possibilities! Why are you doing this, Minister? Why do it? You, ladies and gentlemen, especially the SPÖ? That can't be an argument – as you brought it to us in the committee – that they say: The other social security representatives do the same! They may also have funds in these dizzy government bonds, in these scrap papers – some have already achieved this status – so we now have to do it at the building workers' holiday fund! – Yes, have you slept in the last weeks and months? Have you overlooked what happened? Our proposal would be to consider whether it should not be prohibited by the others and to introduce the criterion of the safety of the mouth, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, a word on this amendment with which you are now coming. You're pretending that this thing would be outraged by it or that danger would be removed from the world – it's not like that at all! In my eyes, this makes things even worse, because you're blaming for security that doesn't exist at all. What is meant by a detailed credit check? What does this mean that the credit quality of these government bonds must be clearly considered? – Now, when assessing this credit, the SPÖ will end up again with the rating agencies, which she cursed from this point yesterday for her bad drive! I don't know what's going on anymore. What you said yesterday, that you have to put the rating agencies in the crafts, or what you say today, that you need the rating agencies to check the credit quality of these government bonds? Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is a joke and shows how double-handed social democracy operates there. You need to know everything with your trade union and BAWAG experience. I hope people didn't come to you at the time and said: Please, we put these billions in the Caribbean, because all this is so insecure! – No, no, they will have already come, and they will have been said: That is quite certain! You're on the safe side! You can do nice money, but basically you are in a safe port! – And you know what came out of these speculations, ladies and gentlemen! Equipped with these experiences, go here now and open this gate. That's more than irresponsible, I'm telling you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you say, The Greek government bonds are not meant, because they now have a bad credit!, that may be true, but a few years ago the Greek government bonds also had a good credit. And if you put on government bonds now, where no man can tell us how this is going on in the next few years, then here, I say, is an action with which you put the funds to put workers at risk instead of protecting them. That is why we reject it in third reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10005	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10026	Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Sozialminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's interesting how to praise a really very good novel with a set and use every further minutes for trying to speak badly. This is very unfortunate, quite simply because today is a good day for the 130 000 construction workers in Austria, because the 130 000 construction workers with their 9,000 plants in the BUAK have the fullest confidence in the building workers' holiday and disposal fund. They have had that since the creation of 1946, and they will have it in the next few years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Faith You're telling me: No other institution has such a high confidence index as the BUAK. Why? [[Abg. Kickl: What do they need this extension for? Explain this to me!]] – Because the employees in BUAK have still come to their money. And precisely that is why this law has been passed, for this reason we have set up this cash register so that workers from this cash register will receive their claims. [[Abg. Kickl: Why do they need this expansion now?]] That's fact, and you can't make that bad talk here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You will not be able, Mr Kickl, to corrupt us today and to speak badly – Mr Grosz, I will come to you later – simply because what you are bringing here is simply unbelievable because we know very well that those responsible in the building workers' holiday and handling fund are very careful to deal with the funds, even in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] [[Abg. Kickl: They said that in the BAWAG too!]] – We are now at BUAK and not at BAWAG! [[Abg. Riepl: He always confuses everything!]] Your statements are simply unbelievable! Let's compare your announcement, Mr. Kickl, of 29. April that 200 000 Poles are in the opening holes, with reality [[Abg. Kickl: 10,000 are there anyway, well, is that nothing? After a few days!]] In the first month, in May, 8 700 new workers from eight states. Unemployment has been reduced, employment has been increased. That's facts! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Please explain to us what you need this pass here!]] And you're trying to push us in from this speaker's console of horror ghosts and false stories. Two more important arguments for this – that's what you have to say before you spread anything negative again: The fact is, since 1. In May, all indications from the population concerning companies where wage and social dumping could exist were examined by the Austrian control bodies. It works! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The fact is, however, that we must not tire out, and then, when it comes to creating further measures, when we realize that the tricks and galers are trying to get orders in Austria with immoral offers, must continue to turn on the screws of control and continue to work on evaluations and changes. That is also my request, also to you, to the liberals, that we discuss this together and also evaluate it accordingly in autumn, if this is necessary. This is my offer to you, and I hope you will accept it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the parties who will vote in favour of this amendment today. It's a good day, we're not going to let him spoil us by your horror ghosts and not let that make us bad. A thanks to the Minister of Social Affairs Rudi Hundstorfer for the introduction of this novelle and a great thank you also to the building social partners, who once again decided and acted in a forward-looking and correct manner. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: What about me?]] BZÖ, ÖVP, SPÖ – great, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10198	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10219	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! You know, Mr. Kickl, if you want to find a hair in the soup, you'll almost always find one. - Just so much to your statement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the amendment of the Civilian Vacation and Processing Act, we take another step against social fraud. Furthermore, construction companies which have a competitive advantage through wage and social dumping are introducing a bar. A provision for cooperation with the labour inspectorates of the European Economic Area will also be included in the Labour Inspection Act and in the Transport Labour Inspectorate Act. A focus is on improving control. What control measures are now planned? A construction site database will be established. The building site reports are the basis. In the future, all competent authorities may access this database. Further: The clarification of the definition of “special businesses” is intended to prevent an unjustified flight from the construction worker’s holiday and handling law. Workers are prohibited from relinquishing their claims from the BUAK to the employer or the employer. – That has already been mentioned. BUAK's powers of insight and control are expanded, for example through a more comprehensive understanding of business documents, by a right of access to wage documents in German, by providing information on sub-contractors, temporary workers and posted workers. Another priority, ladies and gentlemen, is organisational change and harmonisation in procedural law. I am not often enthusiastic about more controls, because it is usually more administrative and bureaucracy, but in this case I am in favour of more control, because it is about more fairness for the construction industry, for workers and also for more fairness for entrepreneurs. And I think that with this change of law, we are definitely contributing to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10280	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10301	I'll say it right at the beginning: We will vote in favour of this amendment. I see this as something different from Mr Kickl, even though he is right in one point and with the desire for separate vote on this amendment, I think I would point to a wound point where I would have urgently asked the government parties who have tabled it as an initiative proposal – Muchich, Wöginger – – to do so now it is too late! – to discuss such matters either in committee or at least before the plenary session, for such an error cannot be allowed often. The fact that I am going to be able to calculate – I repeat what Mr Kickl has said – the rating agencies as the body that is trying to assess the state bonds or other titles that are being used to finance or to secure them, is really a problem in view of what we have been discussing here in the last few days. I already know that the building workers' holiday fund probably does not come up with the idea of investing in speculative government bonds, such as Greek or Portuguese government bonds, because it thinks that with 30 percent we can get something out, but the formulation that was made in the amendment proposal does not really make a slim foot. [[Abg. Kickl: Then they don't need it!]] I also believe – and in this sense I appeal to the Federal Minister, to what Mr Muchitsch has proposed and what Mr Fürntrath-Moretti actually supported in principle – that this law must be evaluated very quickly. And I would urge you, Minister of State, to do so at the latest in autumn. I believe that the administrative burden is very high and that it may be that after the first months in which they are obviously carried out and have become very intense, the controls may be somewhat reduced. The intensity with which one would control here will certainly not be maintained in the construction area over the year. There are also some regulations that are very complicated to control – we have had this for the last time, this strange provision in the wages and social dumping law with the basic wage, it is only the basic wage to be controlled, et cetera. All this is very susceptible to the fact that companies are looking for wonderful loopholes and are also immediately responding to corresponding shortcomings in the administration, in control and trying to find an invading door. In addition, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this way, an approximation should be made to what is already formulated in the law itself, or an approximation to the criminal provisions relating to similar offences in the wage and social dumping law, as this is excessive.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10363	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10423	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10444	Mr President. Federal Minister! In order to improve the fight against social fraud, it is also necessary to increase the control powers of the building workers' holiday and treatment fund. I also see the construction site database positively. The purpose of this database is to provide an overview of the newly started construction sites and to enable targeted and planned control in this area. We welcome the establishment of a construction site database and that other authorities will allow access to what will lead to better control. We also have a positive view of the ban on secondment, which is intended to prevent abuse and which, in future, prohibits workers from relinquishing due remuneration claims to employers under the Civil Employment and Processing Act – which has been possible so far – because with this pay, workers ultimately dispute their livelihood. For more fairness, I think all here in the House in this area are for workers, but of course also for companies, for the Austrian economy, so that it is competitive. Where there is now a difference of opinion on the approximation of the rules on employment for the construction workers' holiday and treatment fund to those for social security schemes, that is one thing. One should make nails with heads; I mean, let's look at it once until autumn, as it is. But, in any case, there should be a harmonisation of procedural law in this part. As far as the approximation of the criminal framework and so on is concerned, I am d’accord that we are doing uniformly in this direction. In any case, this is a step in the right direction. The other point is that today’s rating agencies are so miscredited. Something to carry out reviews must be natural, but that does not necessarily have to be rating agencies in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] – Yes, I know, but let’s take a look at what this is in autumn, and then the whole thing can be changed. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10491	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Hechtl is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10512	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Appreciate High House! This government template, of course based on the wage and social dumping law, takes a further step in the matter, namely the sensitive construction industry. This will help to secure the wages to be paid to employees and to acquire a competitive trade. However, this law also brings with it better control, especially in this sensitive area, and a rapid and effective fight against social fraud. The ban on the assignment – which has already been mentioned – between the employee and the employer ensures that the entitlements to the holiday fee will be paid exclusively by the BUAK to the employees. This creates legal security. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since its introduction, the Civil Employment and Processing Act is truly a centenary law and it will remain in the future, a centenary law that best meets the needs of construction workers, meets the change of time and challenges of the rapidly changing working world and is therefore always subject to evaluation and change. In this sense, Mr President, I would like to make the following request at the same time: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Kickl: And that from the mouth of the SPÖ!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask that this amendment be put to the vote. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Once again, it confirms that this law is and remains a centenary law with this novelle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10597	The amendment tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1221 of the supplements. For this purpose, the following additional or amendments shall be made: Amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr President, as well as a supplementary or amendment by Mr Öllinger, Mr Van den Broek. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Kickl. I will therefore vote first of all on the supplementary and amending proposals mentioned above and on the request for a separate vote of the parts concerned in accordance with the classification of the draft law and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. First of all, we are voting on the amendment tabled by Mr Öllinger, Mr colleagues, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1 Z 6. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Call the ÖVP:Blue-green Alliance!]] We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 14 as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr President. Whoever joins these amendments, I am looking for a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary motion tabled by Mr Oellinger, colleagues and colleagues, on the introduction of a new Z 25a in kind. 1. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – That's the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 4 Z 2 and Art. 5 Z 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:57:50]] 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1202 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the National Bank Act 1984 and the Financial Market Supervisory Act (1319 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10637	We're going to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Grosz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I give him the floor, but make him aware that I have to interrupt him at 3 p.m. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10665	Mr President. High house! I can make it short: We will not agree, of course, because this is the pro-longation of the pro-poor, the post-chaker at the National Bank! The National Bank is the last swamp in this country, one of the last swamps of red and black, its political officers who have not yet been dried. If you now think that you want to spread sand to taxpayers because you are reducing the General Council from 14 to 10 members, then you should have taken the agenda item today to discuss the fact that we are finally disbanding the incredible pension privileges and pension reserves in the National Bank! Several billion euros in pension reserves for privileges bunkers in the National Bank, while on the other hand, this Federal Government, Red and Black, has savings packages across all Austrians. We're not going with that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, we do not participate in the area of financial market supervision, where the audit component rises from € 4 million to € 8 million, without the red and black being able to explain to us both in the committee and here, which actually costs the audits. That means scattering sand into the eyes of people. This is the prolongation of the current state of affairs, of people's displeasure towards the National Bank. That is why we cannot support it either! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10711	Mr Grosz, you would have had another one minute now. [[Abg. Grosz: You can sing something, Mr President.]] [[Further calls.]] I am now interrupting the debate on item 16 on the agenda for a short debate on a deadline request. [[15:00:01]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10747	We are now entering the brief debate on the request by Mr Graf, the Scientific Committee for Reporting on amendment 1596/A(E) by Mr Graf, colleagues, on ‘the country of origin principle’, a period of time until 21. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I give it to him; 10 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10786	Mr President. It is about – and this has certainly not been hidden from the House – that the university area in Austria is one of the main construction sites, as is generally the educational sector. Here, too, due to the EU legal situation, some things – under quotations – are “missing”, which are currently not easy for the university system, of course also in combination with the positive autonomy, especially in the years to come. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] In addition to the current debate due to a highest court ruling of the Constitutional Court, which now concerns the fees of study – here the previous regime has been tilted – it is about – and the universities have already complained about the loss of 20 million to 30 million euros per year here – that the coalition parties are again diametrically opposed to this scheme: The ÖVP requires tuition fees; SPÖ excludes tuition fees categorically. This latter, in principle, we agree with the liberals because, in view of this university situation, tuition fees can only be by far the last, after many reform steps and improvements that can be expected. Study fees are currently exclusively money acquisition actions, but would not mean anything for an efficient study because the system is not modified. In the context of financing and inflow, however, attention must be paid, particularly in the so-called mass subjects or mass universities, to the fact that there is a very clear move from abroad. The answer, which is said in the first place again and again that the Germans are guilty of it, is only conditionally correct. There are a total of 60 000 foreign students from the EU who are in Austria, and the Germans are certainly a smaller part of it, although it is quite high in absolute numbers. There must also be eyesight for various measures in the Federal Republic of Germany: Reduction of the AHS to 8 years and thus a double matura year, suspension of the military duty. This means that there are additional strains and streams of students on us, and it is interesting also in studies such as medicine. You know, in Germany there is the Numerus clausus, i.e. in Germany, not everyone is allowed to study on the basis of his matura or, as it is said, a diploma certificate. With us you can do this, and that is why – of course, especially since the language of teaching is usually German – is very much perceived. This means that we are subjected to a strong pressure here, which, in some cases, makes it no longer possible for Austrian students to study what they actually want. This is for us free people by way of false access! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With us, every Austrian maturant, every Austrian maturant, is to be given the opportunity to study what they want. That is why our science spokesman Martin Graf has proposed to implement the country of origin principle. The country of origin principle also means a certain preference – which is common in the EU, for example in the business sector, and which has also enforced itself – but the country of origin principle may sometimes be contrary to some fundamental freedoms. However, it depends on what one wants or does not want to regulate from national or European interest! The implementation of a country of origin principle, of course, first of all through negotiations with our European partners, but in the final consequence, of course, also with the “weapons” of a legal debate, or some veto threat, it would be necessary for our government representatives in Brussels to show once what we demand of the liberals, namely mumm towards the European central bureaucracy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the interest of the Austrian students and the general population at all, it would be time to “play the muscles” here, too – under quotation marks – because it is not to be seen that our system of studies, our university system of tax money, especially the parents of the now students, will be built and preserved, but the fruits of our good study system, our good university system, should be given to others. There is simply a discrepancy here, and here also national interests need to be safeguarded! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is evidence of this; it is not true that the EU would be particularly unreasonable. The German Minister of Science said that she had no problem with Austria and would not initiate proceedings against Austria. But thank God has also recently given an interesting insight, a judgment of the European Court of Justice. It is that case C-73/08, a judgment of the Court of Justice (Grand Chamber) of 13 December 1985. ==References== Interesting aspects and quotations have been worked out, even in the final remark from the indictment. That's what the chief prosecutor says: "I have pointed out the importance of free movement of students based on equal treatment for the development of the Union. On the other hand, the EU must also not ignore the very real problems that can arise in those Member States that receive many students from other Member States.” – This is the Commission! Or: ‘I believe that the Community legislator and the Member States should consider the application of these criteria to the free movement of students between Member States.’ In other words, the EU's top guardians of fundamental rights and freedoms already see a need for action and document it here. But on ours Page is down! Some aspects have been mentioned in the judgment itself, where the fundamental right to free movement and free access can be removed by this discrimination, which would be possible here. This is true, for example, if a country such as Austria can prove that: health care in Austria would be at risk. If we have too many foreign students who are studying medicine, but then go back to their country of origin, then finally too few doctors are left for Austria. That is to say, it would be a clear point where national law should be preferred. Or it says here too: “In the initial procedures, this study must... allow for an assessment of how many students can be trained at the most, taking into account the desired standards for the quality of training.” This means that a functioning, quality education system at the university is also discussed here. It is therefore about two points: the supply of your own country to graduates of universities and the question of whether the university operation should be maintained in the event of an attack. That is, on the part of the EU, on the part of the EU Court of Justice, the Commission is already thinking in this direction. But what happens in Austria? - Nothing! We're just thinking: How can we limit access to study in any form – access restrictions – and how can we shrink students? - That's the only thing that comes to your mind. It is therefore necessary to present this motion for a resolution on the country of origin principle as quickly as possible in the Committee on Science, Public Health and Consumer Protection, so that the government can also be given the appropriate direction, what we want and what we do not believe, what is right for the Austrian university location. It was therefore requested that this deadline be extended until the 21st century. The report of the Scientific Committee is available on September 15, 2011. I invite you to the debate. I think it is at the Austrian universities about the right of Austrian maturants who, hopefully, this time their matura – and I can only congratulate everyone – have passed that they can all begin their studies and, above all, with appropriate skill – perhaps with one or another semester, but still – will complete their studies.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10905	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the Members who are now speaking is 5 minutes. First of all, Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10930	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Many things have been said in Mr Rosenkranz's speech, which I can very much support, such as the commitment to ensuring conditions in our country and to ensuring that everyone who wants to study, and everyone who wants to study, can do so and finds the appropriate conditions so that we do not want to create financial and other obstacles, but free access to higher education. I very much support that. Other things see more problematic, more differentiated. For example, I would like to expressly acknowledge that internationality at our universities is a positive thing; that it is useful to have contact with students from other countries and cultures while studying, that this is a very fertilizing thing; that it is good to have contacts with them after the study; and that we should try to keep young people who come from abroad to study with us and acquire qualifications on Austrian tax pay costs, then also in our country. As far as the country of origin principle is concerned, we have already discussed the request to which we are discussing a deadline. I said there, of course, that we cannot decide on such a request, knowing that by adopting such a request, such a law, we would be in breach of EU law. We had earlier, as has been said, the country of origin principle, which, however, was declared illegal by the ECJ in 2005 and was therefore repealed. If you are recovering today and demanding it, then you are asking the Federal Government to do so knowingly. I think that this is a political rather adventurous call to the Austrian Federal Government to say something harmless. In principle, I consider the country of origin to be a possible method. This is not feasible, however, simply by unlawfully adopting a law in Austria, but it would have to be sought at European level for a European solution. I'll give you that again. I also see the need for more action and action to bring about an appropriate European solution, and the country of origin principle would be – I believe – a possibility. However, as a basic prerequisite to be able to do so, we must negotiate changes at European level – in the primary law of the European Union – in primary law, anchor regulations allowing for a balance between large and small states, in order to be able to adopt, for example, the country of origin principle in the Austrian Parliament. I would, of course, strongly support such a procedure, with, as I said, the country of origin principle being a good opportunity from my point of view. There would also be others to negotiate compensation payments on an equal European legal basis, for example. We've got alliance partners here. Belgium and France, too, have a similar problem, so we are not alone in this. I would like to join the new Minister of Science, who was a rector at Innsbruck University until a short time ago, in other words, at one of the universities, which is the one that exists of this problem – of course: Numerus-clausus refugees from Germany – who are particularly affected – already expect and hope that he will show more initiative here than his predecessors – Minister Hahn, Minister Karl – because he knows this problem very well. We will not agree to the deadline. I see – formally said; in terms of content I have already justified it – no sense in setting a deadline until 21. It would no longer be possible to apply for this regulation, as requested in the request, for the coming winter semester, even if one wanted to do so. As I said, however, I am particularly concerned about the subject matter in the course of the process, not in the substance.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e10991	Mrs Franz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11012	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The solution to the problems we have at the universities cannot be the reintroduction of the country of origin principle. We've already heard: This is illegal in the EU, and that is not a solution at all. I also see other solutions as problematic. For example, compensation from Germany for German students in Austria is unfortunately not expected at the moment. With the highest court knowledge on tuition fees, which was announced yesterday, the Husch-Pfusch action of September 2008 in which the study fees of SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens were abolished. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: From Hahn!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz:... the decree of Hahn!]] Mr Graf, you and your colleagues were there too. , and this law decision has just been repealed. [[Call to the FPÖ:In the case of a decree from Minister...!]] Remarkable is the following: The VfGH does not call into question the collection of study fees, but it says that the law decision is too imprecise and therefore unconstitutional. We now need urgent action, because if nothing is done, there is no legal basis for student contributions from third-country students. There is no regulation for long-term students. There is a loss of revenue of €35 million, which for the universities is not actually possible. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mrs. Colleague! ... it's about setting deadlines!]] Mr. Sünkel, president of the University Conference, said today in the “Wiener Zeitung”: This is the “next ear figs for the universities.” Nothing to do is clearly at the expense of the students. We need a national shoulder closure for the universities. It is important to pool the forces and turn on the house mind. We have to deal with the matter seriously. That is why we invite the SPÖ to start constructive discussions – even in summer – to advise on what has to be done here, because we urgently need a solution. Double Matura vintages, the suspension of military service with our German neighbours, Numerus-clausus refugees: Yes, we have to control the student flows – that is what our science minister, daughter, says – and this includes study contributions. The subject of study contributions must not be taboo and must be seen in the European context. The OECD also recommends alignment with international standards and the reintroduction of study contributions. Of course, these must be combined with an efficient and effective study aid system for students with low-financial parents. All studies and international comparisons show that 40 years of free access to higher education have not led to a better social mix. That's what the FHs show us: There is no social selection, but – on the contrary – a better social mix. We do not want financial obstacles, but where is the financial obstacle when the study contributions are suspended by good scholarships? So let's do it together! Let's create new rules! The invitation to the SPÖ stands for serious negotiations, as not only the ÖVP, also the universities, many students and a large part of the population are for the collection of study contributions, but also Gabi Burgstaller and Michael Häupl. So we will not allow this deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11086	Now comes Mr. Deputy, Third President Dr. Count's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11107	Madam President. I don't know how you are, but no matter what subject of science we've been on – for years! – in the Committee, here in plenary or wherever, the record of the ÖVP is placed, which reads as follows: Access restrictions for Austrian students and the collection of study contributions. That's your only topic – no matter what it's about! You've seen that very clearly again today. Mrs Anna Franz spoke only on these two issues, although it is a deadline for re-establishing or introducing the country of origin principle – something quite different! So in itself this was a thematic error, but it is that record that we constantly hear, and that makes it sad to go into scientific debates. I would also like to say to this address: Science policy is only to be defined by means of money acquisition activities and how to keep their countrymen away from universities is too little. That's just too little! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are many, many, many other issues that are urgently to be addressed, and that is what I would like to say at this point. There are also a lot of ÖVP representatives who are in favour of the country of origin, and all party representatives say that this would be the solution for our system, but are not willing to implement it. We have not said at all – and this does not come out of this request at all – that we are doing this today – here and now! – want to decide so that it will be in force tomorrow. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We had a Scientific Committee, and although in reality everyone would be in favour of it, you have postponed this request from SPÖ and ÖVP, which reads as follows: The government may submit a government template that lays down the country of origin principle – no matter how defined it is, one has time to negotiate it. That means: You do not want the government or the competent minister – for the predecessors had not done so – to finally agree with your colleagues. They have postponed it, they do not want us to go from the national Parliament and say: Mr Minister, at last do something in this direction! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has been postponed, and therefore we want to set a time limit so that we exert pressure and finally the government will break its mind on other topics as well as on how to blow off students and how to look at that as few as possible. These are the only two issues that the BZÖ and the ÖVP have, everything else is not interested in science policy. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Do you have a concept? Do you have a concept?]] Or want You're not saying that the Minister is finally negotiating in this direction? The country of origin is the simplest thing that exists. It can also be said differently, and it does not have to be reintroduced as it was, because it only means that we want to make sure that only those in Austria who have the right to study in their home country are to study. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At present, people who do not have the right to study in their home country can study with us. That is what we want to prevent, and just because we want to prevent it, we say that we must not take the opportunity of as many Austrians as possible – young people. The fact that this should be implemented relatively quickly also shows demographic development in Austria and Europe. We now have a situation due to other circumstances – the military suspension has already been mentioned and much more – in which we have to act now, because in five to seven years we will have about 25 percent fewer 18-year-olds per year than three years ago, because the births in these years are going down by 25 to 30 percent sustainable. Then we will no longer have the problems we have today and in the next five to seven years. It's nothing but that we're exerting pressure. Because we want to know – not only from the outside lip confessions – who is in favour of such a solution in the Austrian Parliament, we have called for a name-named vote on this issue. We want to know who is willing to put pressure on the government, that at last you will also find solutions in the sense of Austrian youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11183	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11204	Madam President. High house! So simple is the world of FPÖ and SPÖ. I've already said one thing: The country of origin principle is something important and right, and that is why we will go along with it. But, Mr Graf, this is not all in science policy, and we have put in a lot of applications to develop Austria's scientific location conceptually and to create conditions in order to really be able to re-emerge internationally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... 12-point plan of the FPÖ!]] You jump up now with a small request that goes in the right direction, but far too little. And the SPÖ stands out here and says that it is true that one can study well in Austria, but how that is done the ÖVP should be alone – and does not produce the necessary majority and the necessary resources for it. It's just a thing you can't discuss like this. We need to look at this more comprehensively, and I would like to take this into account – that was also my topic – that we already have 60,000 students from abroad in Austria – 60,000! – and in the case of first-time students, it is up to 25 percent in public universities, out of a total of 330,000 students in Austria. These are quotas that you just can't handle anymore. Mr Graf, part of it will cover the country of origin, but not all. We will have to talk about how it looks about terms of study in the international comparison, where the universities are good – and there are also tuition fees. I understand that the left block in this House – the SPÖ and the FPÖ together with the Greens – has abolished the tuition fees. [[call to the FPÖ.]] What did she do with it? – Point 1: 15 percent still pay tuition fees. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A third! A third! You're unsuspecting! One third pays...!]] Point two: The bureaucracy has grown enormously. Your alleged debureaucratist creates artificial bureaucracies. In addition, millions are going to bureaucracy to deal with the collection of study fees. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is your work. I congratulate Mr Graf von der FPÖ. And something else – that's the decisive, that's even the insanity: They let the little people you represent, the rich students at the university finance. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Graf]] That's what the cleanery is all over the system! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you look at the report on the social situation, then you will see that the elevated shifts, rich parents let the children study and, as a rule, workers' children cannot study so often. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I am a worker child!]] And then you say the rich aren't supposed to pay any tuition fees. Mr Graf, I don't understand the world anymore, but obviously this is your new system for tuition fees. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I'm a worker child! And you? I'm a worker's child! And what are you?]] That is, in principle, yes to the country of origin principle. It's a mosaic, but it doesn't solve all the problems. It will be crucial that we reintroduce the study fees again, and I am pleased that today the head of UNIKO Dr. Sünkel said that 500 € would be feasible, would be acceptable, would be moderate – in combination with social study grants. If we reintroduce this system again, we will have around €160 million more at one time for the universities that we urgently need. From the year 2013, we need more anyway, which is also known: Extra € 250 to 300 million from the budget pot to be able to equip the universities accordingly so that they can maintain normal operation. On the judgment of the Constitutional Court, I look at how this is implemented. That's what I'm really looking at! I really suspect, as I have already explained, that the SPÖ will be leaning back and that February will pass. Then the studies are completely gone, and we have the absolute chaos in the university landscape here in Austria. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The responsibility for this is yours from the SPÖ, you from the FPÖ and also you from the Greens, who simply oppose an object-political solution. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] It's and remains a hush fuch, what you've done, and it doesn't have to be extended. You can't fix a flicking work by flicking. It must be abolished and re-founded, i.e. introduced tuition fees. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We from BZÖ are going a step further. Mr Neubauer, we want Austrians in particular to be preferred in good places. This can be done by introducing a €5,000 subscription fee, which is also used internationally, and the Austrian students get it back in the form of the Unibonus. That would be a success, because the quota system with which we are now training 20 percent of physicians for Germany is certainly not the future. Finally, we will not be able to press ahead with proper funding in terms of quotas and derogations. In total, there's chaos here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Chaos! You did...!]] You want to do something, you tell the people outside fairy tales about a unipolitics. They're not doing anything. They don't make any money. They don't create a regular. They leave the students with this chao policy in check.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11358	Mr Grünewald has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11380	Madam President. High house! I can understand Mr Graf from his motives. There is enough reason to demand that, only the method I think is wrong. I can well remember – it was, I think, in the mid-1990s – when one came to the idea of introducing the country of origin principle in Austria. It was still under head of section Höllinger, and he was warned that this was contrary to the EU principle of equality, and he replied in a wink way: We'll wait until someone complains! Until someone complained, I think it took eight years. If I'm not crazy, it was a Finnish student. It has been given the right, and the judgment was delivered in 2005. Austria has been strongly condemned in accordance with EU law, and it has been said: Please seek a different solution to become master of this problem! - or become a woman if you want to. The same ministry, but always other ministers have pushed it down like a hot potato. I can remember, we asked Hahn to do something. Discussions were held – bilaterally, amically, anecdotally – but there were never negotiations. The Minister Gehrer was told in advance that he was told by the Minister Karl. It was further spoken, but never really negotiated. There are models in Europe, such as in Scandinavia, where all states put a certain percentage of the educational budget into a pot, and it is then poured out where the highest balance in student flows is. But this is only a fraction of the real student costs, you would have to find a better solution. In the quota system – I draw the Ministry's attention again – we were only given time to execute this judgment or to give an opinion. I think we've got another year. Nothing's happened! No one has told me yet that something specific has happened. So the government's responsibility is there, and hurry is needed. But what is massively annoying me is that things can be claimed here inside – it's about science – that just doesn't vote. The VfGH has repealed a law, but it has repealed a study law that is older than the abolition of the tuition fees. It is linked to tuition fees, study law and study aid. This has been awarded in connection with overtime. During the course of the study, there were study sections, and one or two tolerators were able to cover one or two semesters of tolerance. This was the case before this September decision, which all criticise. It has been overlooked that a Bologna architecture has been introduced, which no longer knows sections of study. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Therefore, there are no tolerable semesters per study, but at most per baccalaureat. This has been overlooked by the government, and then, if you want to, because I am very friendly, we have repeated this mistake. You can say that, but it started with you. And something else: It has not changed anything at all on the social balance. It studies, compared with the situation forty years ago, a third more women. One more thing: Let's take the statistics as a science instrument! Today, when the number of workers' children decreases, it has nothing to do with free access, but that is simply because today the percentage of workers in the population of Austria is no longer the same as 40 years ago. That's what you have to say, because everything else is really wrong. And when I listen to the tuition fees: Be so nice, make it, we'll do everything!, then I have to say: You know, if, according to international, European standards, you only want to come to an EU section of aid providers and the level of scholarships, this costs twice as much as the universities take by tuition fees. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] If you want to make me aware that the government is ready to do so – which before any other euro is developed to the Unis panic fears – then I eat the word literally broom, and I'd rather the others swallow him.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11470	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Graf, fellow Members, to the Scientific Committee for Reporting on Amendment 1596/A(E) by Mr Graf, fellow Members on the principle of the country of origin. ==References== The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. I therefore proceed as follows. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name “Yes” – these are the grey ballots – or “No” – which are the pink ballots. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members to vote in favour of Mrs Graf, colleagues and others' motion for a deadline, to vote yes, to vote against, to put no to the vote. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. They have the information that it always comes again and again to glue two pieces of paper and therefore sometimes arises irritation. I am now asking the author, Mr Zanger, to begin with the name call; Mr Jakob Auer will replace him later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11551	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11595	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 155, of which 'Yes' votes: 43, 'No' votes: 112. The deadline application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; man-made fibres of the species Gallus domesticus, of the species Gallus domesticus, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert, Hofer, Huber; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kunasek; Laust, Linder, List; Markowitz, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer; Petzner, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Scheibner, Donk, Spadiut, Stadler, Stefan, Strutz; Tadler; Inland waterways; Vock; Widmann, windwood, winter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Mulder, Binder-Maier, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr; Cap, Csörgits; Donabauer, Donnerbauer, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gäsner, Glaser, Grillitsch, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Korun, Chicken, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, lettuce, light picker, lipitsch, lohfeyer, lopatka, lueger; Maier Ferdinand, Matznetter, Mayer Peter, Moser, Muchich, Musiol, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pendl, Pirklhuber, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger, Schönpass, Schultes, Schüssel, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber, Steibl, Steindl, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Van der Bellen; Walser, Wenninger, Windbüchler-Sushill, Wittmann, Wöinger, Worm; Zinggl. [[15:46:15]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11780	I shall resume the negotiations on item 16 of the agenda. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Ikrath. I would draw attention to the fact that only three words remain until the next vote. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11804	Madam President. My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grosz has previously put his finger on a wound that we all know in a style that I call “outlaw-style”. Of course, it is that emotions are linked to the topic of OENB privileges, I know that from the credit economy. There are many people who work hard every day in the competition and who do not understand much for the old loads in the National Bank. On the other hand – and this is already to be said – there are, of course, contracts to be respected. Pacta sunt servanda: Our rule of law is based on this, and that is why we cannot make it as easy as Mr Grosz does to practice only criticism – as is commonplace in his party – without bringing solutions to the problem. But now we should turn back to the law that is under negotiation today. What we will decide today is something very reasonable, namely the acquisition of 100 percent of the National Bank into the property of the Republic. This is in line with an international standard: that central banks are mostly in state ownership or are institutions that are entirely state-owned. This is particularly important and necessary because central banks are increasingly forming part of banking supervision. Due to the expertise that has been concentrated there, the trend has gone in this direction before the financial crisis and has now been strengthened by the new European supervisory system. There is no good look and no good governance, if in this bank some of the financial companies are represented in the ownership structure, which are supervised – as was the case in Austria, historically, the case. That is why it is a consistent step to state the National Bank at 100 per cent under these conditions, and it is worth noting that this is the same thing as Mr Grosz, please listen! – to make savings at the General Council by reducing it. That's where you see the good will. However, as has been said, we must already note that there are also contracts that cannot be changed with a dash, and that is in principle good because this is a rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11850	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11871	Madam President. Now, in this law, we have pointed out in detail in the Committee why we agree and agree: because it is ultimately the consequence of the reorganisation of the Oesterreichische National Bank as far as the ownership structure is concerned. But I would like to take a brief look at this: It was high time that private banks no longer hold ownership shares in the Austrian National Bank. We were a certain unicum. This has not been the case in many European countries. I believe that now there is only more Italy in the main, and whether we have to focus on monetary and financial policy issues is a different question anyway. I believe that the National Bank is now fulfilling its tasks, including in coordination with the FMA, as it can now do. This can, of course, be done with a certain evaluation. Everything's not paletteti. However, it works better than a few years ago. This is also the result of the results of the Banking Investigation Committee, that we have made some corrections here, even here in the high house. On this occasion, I would just like to say something final, because it is most appropriate to this item on the agenda. It concerns the role of the Austrian National Bank in the ECB. The current subject backgrounds are well known. I think it is high time – and Portugal has now done so – that the ECB liberates itself from this self-prisony and expressly refers, in the internal statute, to the fact that the ECB makes a self-evaluation in the case of documents it receives and decides for itself which government bonds are still accepted or not. Finally, this is crucial for the refinancing of banks in all countries belonging to the euro area. This may be criticised from a different point of view, but it is still better than to surrender to the dictatorship of the American rating agencies, and in this respect it is of course reasonable. We've been looking at the demand for years. They may already be there if there is a European rating agency. In any event, the context is that we believe that there is too much emphasis here on what certain actors in and around the financial markets are doing here. The question with the rating agencies is actually a perverse double pass game with those who have capital to speculate. It's perfectly clear how this goes: Those who have capital still have a semi-passable course. The victim is selected for a good price one can still reject, it comes the rating agency. That's what they've been studying for a long time, if they haven't agreed before. Speculation is not something that falls only evil from heaven. It is not a coincidence that not against Berlin and German government bonds is speculated, but against Athens and Greek government bonds. That's clear, but the fire accelerators are still. In the next step, it's clear what's happening: If the rates fall, the interest rates increase implicitly, they no longer apply them on the market, in primary trade. Now the people could go here and buy it back – they already have a nice margin of profit – and then wait for the taxpayer. We're ready. We decide on this constantly, without necessarily taking in the private believers, therefore it is so important for the future, even in the future ESM, the stabilisation mechanism. That's part of our conditions. You've been hearing us talk here for weeks. It should not be underestimated what this could produce for a prophylactic effect. If we were to hold back this speculation wave, we could really turn to what you see as the primary cause of the crisis, from me the debt problem. But what happens there are occasions that are used to drive everything just to explosion. For whose benefit? – That’s where the rating agencies are in this interest cartel. And I believe that the ECB and therefore the Austrian central bank's attitude should be more emancipatory here, because we know that the ECB has its own statute, which only looks at price stability. That's always controversial. I'm just telling you: The United States would never like what is happening here in Europe. But what you trigger – and the more you read and think about it the more you think about it, it becomes clear to you – is the weakening of the euro. He's not supposed to be a central currency. A dollar would have been playful all over the world due to the economic core data. After all, the whole creature could only be maintained more because of the military supremacy of the USA. This debate is about it. That is why – and I give you one last thing – it would be so important and reasonable to look without prejudice at what European government bonds could do – not at any rate, so that no one has interest in saving themselves, but to a certain extent – which are fully secured. And all that is beyond is not secure. However, this is subject to the free market, and for this the private creditors must, if they pay interest for the risk, ultimately be liable. The Eurobonds would be the insured, and beyond that, the state itself must issue bonds. It can work wonderfully. This is a proposal which is gaining more and more supporters among the economists and which ultimately represents the chairman of the Euro Group, Jean Claude Juncker, and that is why we wrote him a letter. We in the Austrian Parliament want exactly this solution for Europe. That's how we're going. You may not have understood. When it comes to the two-thirds majority, you may also have thought.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e11941	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not wish for any final word. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1202 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign to be given it. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[15:56:46]] 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1212, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Flight Tax Act, the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Income Tax Act 1994, the Fees Act 1957, the Insurance Tax Act 1953, the Municipal Tax Act 1993, the Re-foundation Fund Act, the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967, the Federal Tax Code, the Gambling Act, the Customs Law and the EU Financial Enforcement Act (Debt Amendment Act 2011 – AbgÄG 2011) Request 1333/A(E) by Mr Josef Jury, Mr Maximilian Linder, Mr Linder, on the tax deductibility of donations to the Austrian Civil Invalidation Association and on the Amendment 1500/A(E) by Members Ernest Windholz, colleagues with regard to the deductibility of donations to the Voluntary Fire Department (1320 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 1320/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in relation to tax deductibility of donations for animal and environmental protection (1321, e.g.) 19. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 1421/A(E) by Mr Bernhard Themessl, colleagues: Strengthening "JA to life" consistently – extending the donation to life protection organisations (1322 d.b.) 20. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 1513/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on speculation with donations (1323 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12058	We now come to points 17 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12088	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The various templates are from our point of view to be assessed differently. There are some calculations which are not understandable to us and which are not necessarily credible. It is foreseen that in 2012 there will be revenue losses of €45 million and 2013 such of €95 million. You can believe it now or you can't believe it. There are negative examples, such as tobacco tax. More revenue of around €100 million was forecast for 2011, and now, after the first four months, we are down by 26 percent, which is € 127 million. That is why we are careful about the estimates of these figures. But I also do not want to hide the fact that positive changes are taking place, for example with regard to the Aviation Tax Act. For example: The duty on aircraft exceeding 2 tonnes shall be exempt. Or: The Federal Tax Code has now introduced appeal interest rates. That is, if someone has now called a bill from the financial office and the money stays with the state for a longer time, then if he gets right, he will get the interest back. That's in our sense. It is also clear, as far as the availability of donations is concerned, that the extensions to species protection associations, environmental and nature associations, animal shelters and also to the voluntary fire brigades and, above all, to our colleague Linder's request that the Austrian Civil Disability Association be included in this report are absolutely positive. What I think is less positive is that our request does not go through or is not judged by the government parties. Mr Tamandl said in committee: Well, that's what we're talking about forbidding the clubs the charges of money! For example, in Upper Austria we have had a very negative example. The Catholic boy has invested money from the three-king operation in real estate individual shares. And here we want these charges to be banned and no longer possible. There are, of course, accountants who can reveal this, but it would be better if we did not even tempt the clubs in advance if this was not allowed from the outset. Therefore, from our point of view, it would be better if we could get approval for our request. We will therefore vote differently in second reading, in part give our consent and in the rest we will not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12133	Now, Mr Dr. Stumpfully, I would like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12155	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Only a few words on the tax-change law, because this law with this very technical title provides for a number of important reliefs for taxpayers. This is not a big throw, but a very important relief for those affected by it. First of all, because it is incredibly important for Austria's economic location, I call it the re-regulation of the tax-free movement of assembly charges. This is a very important issue because, and this is human, the willingness to mobility for foreign operations, as we know, depends on the financial incentives that exist for it. That's a fact. The Constitutional Court has now lifted the original regulation. We then have about a year ago the transitional scheme for the years 2011 and ==References== At that time, with a motion for a resolution, we decided that we would need a permanent arrangement. We now have this permanent arrangement. It provides that 60 percent of assembly charges are then tax-free, up to the maximum contribution base on social security if the place of employment is at least 400 kilometres away. A permanent arrangement, which, as I believe, is very important. We have a number of export companies. We are constantly saying in plenary: Our economy lives on export! 60 percent of our value added is actually from the export of goods and services, and therefore it is incredibly important that we also have financial incentives here that our employees are also willing to drive thousands of miles abroad on assembly. That's very important. A second point I would like to mention is important for all those who pay church contributions – such people should still be there. The limit is doubled from 200 € to 400 €. The donation is already mentioned, now also for voluntary fire brigades, animal shelters, environmental protection organisations. I think it is very, very important to also provide incentives to direct the willingness to donate in this direction. I am also pleased that the new foundation promotion law for entrepreneurs will be flexibilised accordingly. These are, therefore, things that one must say, that it was actually necessary, through the experience in administrative practice, in part, to make a certain adjustment in tax law through the highest judicial judgment, as in the case of the assembly allowance. So not a big throw at all, but very important innovations for those affected by it. I also mention the securities KEST. As a result of the highest judicial decision, the securities market should have been postponed from the date of entry into force on 1 January. ==References== ==References== I am also pleased to be able to say that I have sat down with my coalition partner, Mr Krainer, today, and we will sit down with the banks' experts over the summer and see if we can make it easier for the whole collection technique, which is really an incredible administrative burden for the banks. But here we want to talk to those people who are standing on the front every day and who also have to administer it every day. I announce: If we succeed, we will make a proposal again in the autumn, how to perhaps simplify the collection of securities KEST, so as to make it a little easier for banks to work there. In this sense: A joyful yes to this law!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12213	Mr Mag. Kogler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12234	Madam President. I can now repeat the greetings of the Federal Minister and the Secretary of State. – This is a package that, as the previous speaker said, includes quite a lot of small things. That is why I want to focus on very few points at all. I think it should be recognized, even if we reject the law in third reading, that there are very significant improvements in the field of the EPCs, the individual company, in the context of the changes to the new foundation promotion law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] That's quite acknowledgment. We are, of course, pleased when we take more account of this group or if something happens at least sometime. It is clear that we should be paying more and more attention to this area, because it itself is getting bigger and more important, as I mean. And this is about enabling and improving the opportunities and opportunities for these micro- and micro-enterprises, individual companies in this case. Another point is the above-mentioned loss of donations. But I am not staying with the church tax now, but I am going to go to a point that will not surprise you, Mrs Federal Minister, gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Silhavy: Ladies!]] - Yeah, a lady's still there. [[Call the SPÖ:Many ladies!]] – Thank you for the correction. Yeah, I just looked into the first three rows. This is the question of the organisations to be admitted, which are, as it were, already being standardized from the law. But that's not just the point. There can be different opinions. Thus, the Greens are in favour of extending access to this disbursement in the area of animal welfare organisations, if you already have the ability to donate. But it is also a question of legal systems, and I certainly do not know it alone. In the field of environmental organisations, we have now achieved, depending on the perspective – thank God, I say – that this is very comprehensively regulated. But this is not the case with the animal welfare organizations. In fact, there is a distinction between those who are particularly practical in the field of animal welfare – or whatever the advocates of this scheme may argue – who are preferred here, and those who work in the field of qualified animal welfare, where it concerns more extensive activities, and who are excluded. In order to keep up with the announced shortcoming, I am going to turn to our amendment which I am now submitting and reading here, because it also makes a definition of what is meant by qualified animal protection. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is the end of the request and the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12319	The amendment was properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12396	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12417	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, The criticism of the opposition was quite differentiated, and it also highlighted a lot of positive in the tax-change law. I understand again the argument of the opposition, especially the Greens. They say the glass is half empty. However, I would like to point out once again that it is half full, because it has now been improved in this area by the deductibility of donations from environmental protection organisations and animal shelters. The NGOs will benefit from this, and the donors will hopefully still be more eerie. That means, you can say again: It's not enough yet. But I would, because we must not lose sight of the whole thing, and we can only distribute what you have, say that there is a great improvement. That it is not enough for the NGOs concerned and that they would like to have more, I understand, but I mean, as a parliamentarian, you are not representatives of NGOs, but you must have everyone in mind. As I said, I consider the deductibility of donations from environmental protection organisations and animal shelters to be appropriate, good and correct. In the same way, I think – and this is still too short – about the tax exemption for foreign assembly. This is also an improvement for the 15 000 to 20 000 concerned and, above all, administrative relief. The securities market, which has already been mentioned, is a step towards more tax justice, and if we are going to deal with the next steps, I would like to focus on the very decisive, and that is the fair distribution of the tax burden between labour income and income achieved without work. That is, after the next meetings, where we will discuss how to withdraw the securities card, how to allow banks – you have addressed it – we should consider how we can make the tax system more just and more performance-friendly in itself. I believe that all experts will confirm that work is too high for us and that wealth and wealth growth are too low. There must be a fairer distribution and, above all, a fairer measurement of performance. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12461	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12482	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! This subject of law covers a broad field of legal changes, but above all I would like to focus on the deductibility of donations. I am very pleased that a request submitted by me has been fully taken into account. It is about the deductibility of donations to the volunteer fire brigades. As mayor, I am in very close contact with the volunteer fire brigade. It is incredible what great work is being done in this area. The fire brigade is part of the internal security. I can only marvel at the high quality of training – including the Youth Fire Department – and at the use of vehicles that always have to be shot and last but not least, about the acquisition of equipment, but also about accommodation. My home community, for example, now faces the very difficult decision – even in financial terms – whether there should be a reconstruction or a new construction. I consider the absolence of donations to the volunteer fire brigades to be an important step forward. It was a fall of red and black, not to be foreseen, but it has now been repaired, and we will therefore also be given our consent in second reading. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is a legal change that concerns an area that should have the fullest support not only now but also in the future. In this sense, everything that goes towards this voluntaryity – in the year of the volunteers – is fully supported from our side.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12530	Mrs Fekter has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12552	Madam President. Dear Secretary of State Arbitrators! High house! From January 2012 onwards, we will benefit at least 1 million donors for the environment, animal shelters and voluntary fire brigades. Especially for the 4,500 volunteer fire brigades, we have estimated roughly up to a million households that support the volunteer fire brigades. Not all of them will put off the donation tax, but we are already expecting that in about 500 000 donors will bring their donations to the tax declaration or employee charges in this regard. We expect a similar size, about 200 000 donors, from animal shelters and environmental protection organisations. To sum up, this increase in the budget is due to the experience we have with less revenue of € 15 million per year. However, the effects will not be felt until 2013. With regard to the stock market, the capital income tax – this would have been from 1. To enter into force on October 2011, banks have filed a constitutional complaint because it was not possible for them to implement the system within this short period of time. We have taken this into account in this amendment, and yesterday the Constitutional Court confirmed what we have already foreseen in this amendment. This means that the banks have a little longer to implement, namely until 1. ==References== The capital income tax as such has not been sued in any way, i.e. not as unconstitutional, but quite the contrary: It exists. Tax liability exists now, but it is simply withdrawn by the banks. And so that people do not have to start thinking about themselves, we have this deadline until 31. In March 2012, they were extended so that they could not get into trouble because they did not report this speculation. That means, starting at 1. In April 2012, the banks will deliver this automatically. Therefore, we have to expect less revenue for this year in the order of € 10 million. It has also been mentioned that we have made improvements once again in the re-establishment process. When young entrepreneurs, one-person entrepreneurs, employ employees, we are much more generous to promote the growth of these small companies. In other words, we free you from certain pay-related charges on the service providers' contributions. The aid may be used for 12 months within the first three years of its establishment. The so-called assembly privilege was also re-regulated. The assembly privilege benefits all workers who travel on assembly, i.e. those who work for export operations abroad, who are away from their families, who have to taste abroad, have and have to live there. This is not always very pleasant, and therefore it is justified to say that those workers who work more than 400 kilometres away from the Austrian border cannot, under any circumstances, travel daily, enjoy certain tax privileges under these difficult circumstances, namely, 60 percent of the current taxable wage. This benefits employees, those who are able to do so and who declare themselves willing to have mobility, and we therefore believe that this is justified. But we put in a lid, i.e. 4 200 € per month. In cooperation with the financial offices, we have introduced a scheme in such a way that, in the case of appeal proceedings covering a longer period of time, account is taken, not only of the payment of payment of the payment of the payment of the payment, but also of the other side, with regard to the interest on appeals for unlawfully paid charges. It is also true that in the corporate tax system we have implemented the highest judicial knowledge of Europe, i.e. a Judicatur of the ECJ. Companies have in view of their profit distributions in third countries Complaint and received from the ECJ in these complaints. We will therefore adapt the legislation in this respect for the whole of the European Economic Area. There are some measures to increase tax justice and to combat fraud. For example, it is understandable for no one who has to pay the penalty, for what reasons, whether administrative punishment or other penalties, can put it off tax. This is something that has been felt to be extremely unfair in our tax system, and I have joined it. Hence, penalties are no longer tax deductible in the future. We have also noted in the fight against fraud that, in terms of mobile phones, in particular mobile phones, there have been major tax frauds by sending the same mobile phone around the circle several times and using each pre-tax deductions without VAT or VAT. We are now also fighting these frauds by allowing the tax debt to be transferred to the beneficiary. You know this system, it's the reverse charge system. We have introduced this wherever massive tax fraud has occurred. It is proven, and now we are also doing it with mobile devices to put an end to tax fraud. With regard to the flight charge and the flight tax law, we have excluded the small aircraft operated in the sports clubs. That's not the classics. Passengers, but if one-engineed two-seaters make a round flight over the Traunstein or make their training flights for the pilot's license, that's the sport fly, and there it is justified that we do not cancel the charge. The cost of small-scale charges would also result from the fact that the administrative burden would be too high for these small aircraft to break up to two tons. You see, ladies and gentlemen, this tax-amendment law is very diverse. We hope to introduce a little more tax justice, to also achieve a little more understanding of taxes and, above all, to support those who help the public hand and support good things through donations with a tax advantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12634	Mr Jakob Auergegen, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12658	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The positive points of these legislative proposals were presented in detail by various previous speakers, as well as by the Federal Minister, I can therefore save myself. Nevertheless, as Mr Windholz has pointed out, I would like to mention the possibility of making a donation for the fire brigade very commendable, because it is an important institution that we can be very proud of. We can especially thank these organisations very much. It is also praiseable to mention the possibility of regulating assembly activity abroad. I think it is a very important matter because we have very great businesses that demonstrate their know-how also abroad and thus contribute to domestic value-added. After talking about tax justice again and again: Mein Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone has a wealth in the form of a savings asset today, then he pays 25 percent Kest if he has an asset in securities, then he also pays 25 percent, and if he has a wealth in the form of land and it is reversed – it was remarkable that the Salzburg head of state, Mrs Burgstaller, now said that one should collect a land tax; that is already in Upper Austria, up to 16 € per square meter, so this is also not a new invention – then he must already pay. That's why I mean that some people are already being excavated. Mrs Minister, with regard to tax justice, perhaps the following questions should be asked: Do the ÖBB as very large land owners pay a basic tax, and the Austrian Federal Forest as the largest property owner in Austria pay a basic tax? so that we can bring about equal opportunities to the small house-keepers, land owners and commercial businesses, ladies and gentlemen. [[Complementary with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I welcome the announcement made by my colleague, and I ask you to ensure that the Kest collection will be more practical for the banks. I should like to make another amendment tabled by Mrs Günter Stummvoll, to Mr Krainer, on the government proposal relating to the tax-amendment law. Maybe a short explanation: The purpose of the amendment is to exempt departures of all aircraft, rather than only aircraft, with a maximum allowable weight of departures up to and including 2000 kg. For reasons of legal clarity and legal certainty, the ratio of the provisions of the Z 185 and Z 193 to each other should be concrete. On Z 2 an editorial report will be removed, and on § 59 para. 7 gambling law is intended to clarify that media companies are not liable for third parties advertised in their media.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12719	The application has been explained in its basic guidelines, and I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12851	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12872	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has already explained very detailedly that this tax-change law is a collection haven with several different tax-legislative innovations. I would like to focus on three points. One is the decision to amend the Re-foundation Funding Act. This is a very important point, including from the point of view of providing employment incentives. We know from experience that many newly founded businesses in the first year do not have the opportunity to employ people. This funding has so far passed. That is being changed by this amendment, and I believe that this is a good incentive for employment in small businesses and therefore an essential aspect. The point, however, which is particularly important to me, is the tax treatment of income from assembly work abroad. We all know that the Constitutional Court has abolished the legal situation in force since 1979. In particular, the social partners and, above all, the ÖGB have actively committed themselves as a voluntary representative of the interests of employees to a new scheme, because it also concerns legal certainty and planning for companies on the one hand, but above all the predictability of income for employees. I would like to thank Mr Riepl, who is a representative of the PRO-GE, who represents a large part of the employees concerned, for the use which has also come from your side that this new regulation has come about. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I think it is important to remember, on this occasion, the numerous staff representatives and staff representatives who are not only working for their colleagues in these matters, but who are there on a daily basis for their colleagues at the workplace. And if we have this year the year of volunteering, we should emphasize and emphasize the volunteers in particular. Here too a thank you to all works councils for the daily work done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not need to go further on the practical implementation of the new regulation because it has already been declared by Federal Minister Fekter. In any case, this regulation strengthens the economic location and at the same time ensures up to 20 000 jobs in Austria, and that is a very important point. Finally, I would like to say that the clarification of the 12th regulation for construction workers is also a further step towards redundancies from income coming from work. However, we need to further develop this development, namely to force a reduction in performance-related income, and to do so we must make a fair contribution to our community of non-profit incomes. In this sense, I am pleased, Mr Auer, when I hear from you that Upper Austria has already taken up the proposal of the head of state Gabi Burgstaller, because I assume that the ÖVP will then agree to this new regulation and force it. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Reverse!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12938	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e12962	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I think Mrs Silhavy has not completely understood or at least twisted anything. In fact, it is the other way round: Mrs Burgstaller took to heart the above Austrian example! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] That's okay, too. You should always learn from the best. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's quite positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I very much welcome the fact that the Federal Minister has already raised a massive concern that I have raised against the taxation of exchange rates both in the financial committee and in the plenary, in her repair law, if I may call it so, which is the clearly too short legislature, which I considered to be unconstitutional at the time, and which, among other things, also denied my consent to the law. The Federal Minister has taken these concerns into account and has already been implemented in this law before the Constitutional Court of Justice examines this question. This is how I imagine the future cooperation between Members of Parliament and Ministers. I hope that we will then be able to decide on a regular basis on laws that are not to be brought before the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to say one thing: My rejection of the stock market as such remains true, because I still think it is wrong in terms of regulation, because long-term investors are disadvantaged to speculators, because it threatens the construction of the third precautionary column for old age through savings of securities and, of course, also damages the stock market and the economic location, and in future it will be much more difficult for Austrian companies to absorb Austrian capital. – I wanted to comment on that. A final sentence on colleague Rudas: I brought numbers here, and with these figures I can prove something quite different. I'll stop you. In Austria we have a wage sum of about 155 billion euros a year. Of these, 18 billion are paid in taxes, i.e. about 12 percent of them. [[Abg. Krainer: And 40 billion charges!]] We have savings of about €9 billion. Of this, 25 percent, i.e. €2.5 billion. So the capital is taxed twice as much. One should really discuss this very differently. [[Abg. Krainer: charges! 40 billion!]] And we should do this together in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13029	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. A final word is not desired by the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Taxation Amendment Act 2011 in 1212 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mrs Glavischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mrs Dkfm. Dr. Stumvoll, Krainer, colleagues. It is also a desire for separate vote by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Kogler, Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Deputies Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I shall therefore vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals referred to or the request for separate vote in accordance with the classification of the draft law and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1(1) as amended by the Government template, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Stumvoll, Krainer, colleagues. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of Article 1 as amended by the Government template. Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment to Article 2(2), Section 4a(2), point 3. e refers. I ask for an appropriate sign upon approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall immediately be voting separately on this part of the draft law as it stands. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of Article 2(2), which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Government's proposal. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Stummvoll, Krainer, colleagues on Article 2(24) Whoever joins these amendments, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Stumvoll, Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, who suffered the introduction of a new one. (c) in Article 11(3). Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. Proposal from the Financial Committee to take note of its report 1321 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Financial Committee to take note of its report 1322 of the Supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Proposal from the Financial Committee to take note of its report 1323 of the Supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:38:00]] 21. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1206, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities on the continuation of stability-oriented budgetary policy (Austrian Stability Pact 2011) (1324b.b.) 22. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1211, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Financial Balance Act 2008, the Health and Social Aid Act and the Federal Finance Act 2011 (1325 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13187	We now come to points 21 and 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Linder is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13214	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! The Federal Government's agreement on this issue, on the Financial Balance Act or on the Stability Pact, took place primarily from the point of view of the Care Fund. I think we have also explained in detail today why we consider the care fund to be problematic and why we do not agree with it. At the same time, however, there is also a reason why we do not agree to the extension of the financial compensation by 2014: because we believe that there are a lot of injustices and irregularities with the communities in the Financial Balance Act, and we are therefore not prepared to contribute to the extension. One area that we absolutely criticise is the promotion of urban water management. The funding framework has thus been reduced from € 630 million to € 355 million. I believe that even less money can be made available in rural areas, remote areas, areas where projects are becoming more expensive, is not conducive and is not in the sense of promoting rural areas. I see the same problem with the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation. In this area, it is regulated in such a way that although the total amount of funding has remained the same, the levels of funding per project have been significantly reduced. When you do this Calculated: In my community alone, the reduction in funding for a project is around €200 000, which must be carried by the municipality. – I think that is also a reason why we cannot agree. Another point for me, however, is the promise made by your predecessor, Mr Pröll, at the Austrian Community Day in Graz, where he said he would work very well to make sure that the graduated population key is changed or fined. If today a municipality with 10 000 inhabitants has around 645 euros in income, a municipality with more than 50 000 inhabitants but gets 934 € per head, then a municipality with 2 000 inhabitants will have a difference of about 600 000 € in earnings. I think that, ladies and gentlemen, €600 000 more or less for a small community, that is certainly to question and is certainly not justified. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think we small communities would do much easier in the field of kindergarten education, kindergarten opening times, where we turn every cent twice and the big cities with us will compete because they simply have more money at their disposal. That is why we agree or wish, Madam Minister, that you comply with the promise that: They change the graded population key and cannot agree to the extension of the financial compensation for the time being.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13268	Mr Ing. Schultes is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13290	Thank you, Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Stability Pact is an important pact for Austria because we live at a time of heavy debt and can only jointly find out of this difficult deadlock and come back to a prosperous economy. The issue is that the government budget, the country budgets and the municipal budgets are being disciplined together, according to a common plan. Practically, this means: You have to promise yourself something together and make sure that it is true to everyone. The Stability Pact is exactly that, cast into paragraphs: it is clear that each institution has to comply with its own goals. This is important and this is a great burden for all those who have to live with it. In particular, I think of our mayors. I myself come from Lower Austria, we have 573 communities, 427 are run by ÖVP mayors. [[Call: Leader]] Therefore, I am particularly grateful that we have not only extended the Stability Pact but also the financial compensation, and I am pleased for Lower Austria, because we already receive more income in May by 6.8 percent, because thanks to God the economy runs well in Lower Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But your debts are very different!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The municipalities in Lower Austria are doing hard work, they have carried out the savings measures in the last two years. And we will be part of the economic upturn, because it is about keeping economic power in the region. We work with our mayors and are very happy that there are people who take responsibility in the communities outside, and half of that it is important what has been decided in these three days: on the one hand, more room for the communities in the form of cooperation, on the other hand, the extension of the financial compensation, then the Stability Pact, third, good regulations for the financing of care and fourth, the social security of mayors – important concerns that could be realized here. This community package that we have decided in these days is something I very much appreciate. I'm gonna tell you a secret. Of the many Lower Austrian mayors, more than half are in the Farmers' Federation. You can therefore believe that it also makes us very happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13350	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13371	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, it is good that at least one tries to establish a sanctions mechanism. I believe that the situation in some federal states is not so rosy – especially not in Lower Austria, appreciated speakers, because if you bring together the per capita debt of municipalities and federal states, then you will certainly get to Carinthian conditions. But be it, it's also about yield power, we know it from other contexts. It is important, I believe, that the possibility was initially created to provide for liability limits. This issue is also well known; individual federal states are particularly important, but we are saving ourselves now. In the sum, I believe, it must be said that, in the issues that still have to do with the future – financial compensation – or even in the federal-state relationship, we actually carry out more of these different reform points out of the federal interest. At the end of the day, the question cannot always be whether or not the countries have to give power here. The issue of economic efficiency and effectiveness must probably be a priority. I just remember because, over and over, so many administrative reforms are announced – or are also explained in small steps as being implemented; There's no big bang, we've heard that, and that might be right –: In any case, major steps are not taken again and again, such as in the field of school administration. There we were already very far at the “Austria-Conversation” level. Not only has nothing left, but one almost has the impression that individual federal states – quite powerfully – have intended and recognizablely disastered the whole thing until nothing remains and one has to go back to the start when someone else takes it on. Maybe you want to do this, Mrs. Federal Minister? But we recognize that the system of district school councils and the national school councils is not only anachronistic, but also far too expensive, and that in this sector one could achieve more with less effort, even with more school autonomy, which must also be appropriate from the point of view of administrative reform and resource conservation for the state budget. So I'm not just confident. Finally, we are not going to agree to this mechanism, because the allocation of quotas in this stability-orientation is precisely the same as the budget path that we reject for certain reasons. We are of the opinion that: At the beginning one should not have cut in so quickly, but over the years and at the end all the stronger. – Whatever the case, some good approaches are included, it is not to be kept silent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13414	Mr Mag. Gäßner is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13435	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Linder, you did not agree to the care fund today. On the other hand, you complain that there are several cuts in the community area. Imagine that we would not decide on the care fund: The communities would not be able to offer future care as well. I therefore do not understand from the point of view of the communities and from the point of view of those who need this care, this rejection at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And then again, although we do not yet have financial settlement negotiations, we have the discussion about the graded population key. Mr Auer and I have already followed some financial balances, and again and again, when there was a financial compensation, they have been said: But next time, we're making a task-oriented financial compensation! – And I am afraid that the extension of the financial compensation will not bring back a task-oriented one. But that would be the only correct solution. Overall, however, there is not too much left for the municipalities under the line, because the care fund is there for us to cover the additional benefits required in the care. In addition, according to the Stability Pact, the municipalities are obliged not to re-debt themselves. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? – That means no investment, that is, no school renovations, that is no road renovations, that is no new construction of canals, and so on and so on. So if something does not happen at any speed, if the communities are not really properly supported, I see after 2014 more black for the communities. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Windwood.]] People there didn't deserve anything else. Think of the jobs, et cetera, et cetera! Therefore, the proposal by the head of state Burgstaller is a very good one, but it contains a mistake. She says that this tax belongs to the country. I would recommend that you leave this burden with the communities, and I will also work for it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In Upper Austria, there is such an infrastructure tax because you have just married yourself. Since yesterday, Mr Auer told me that it is also law that thank God. However, we still have to talk about the amount of the levy. I can't let myself out any longer, the time won't allow, even if I could still talk about the communities for hours. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13496	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13518	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! In my opinion, the communities should be considered in terms of their development in the last one, two, three years. We now have at least two out of three who do not create a balanced ordinary budget anymore. Mr Schultes, you have spoken about how many of the EIAs are being led, so I say to you: Of course, you are the same with us! Why is that so? – The reason for this is not automatically – I say – a bad economy. Col. Schultes has now announced loud, 6.8 percent plus the profit share. You have to say, fairly, that we had a negative 12 percent and more before. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Linder.]] This minus has been down, and there has been an increase in the social field. No one can do that anymore, I can only agree with our colleague, Mr Gaßner, who is a professional in local policy. What does that mean: no more money in the extraordinary budget, no more investment? – You can do it for a few years, but there is a huge backlog. Small and medium-sized enterprises immediately catch it because there are no orders. I have already said in connection with the Greek protection shield: You will soon need such a one for the congregations! There's nothing to beautify, nothing to rejoice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] - Excuse me? [[Abg. Ing. Schools: 40 million € regional funding!]] Now you're talking about promotions? [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: We said investment! We're talking about investments!]] Yeah, everything okay, that's an area for a region, for three communities. This, and we can talk about it another time, cannot be distracted from the situation of the communities as a whole. What is now being presented is, I say, a first positive step if this 3-percent barrier is respected. I'm just curious how this works automatically with 1 percent re-indebtedness due to the euro protection obligations. As far as the question is concerned, when the shift is taking place in financial compensation, I say as an Austrian learner: I think that's the election date. Before these things one wants to press. Mr Gaßner referred to the task-oriented financial compensation. – That would really be time. The key to success will be found in the administrative reform. There are always great goals there, but there is always the same procedure: basar behavior. Which strong country captain forces the Federation to do something? – That is totally unsatisfying. Have more courage, go on to a reasonable administrative reform to make this area slim and fit! Don't close my eyes, because I can only say that the situation as a whole for the communities is actually more than tense.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13579	Mrs Fekter has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13601	Madam President. Mr State Secretary Arbitrator! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The extension of the financial compensation, i.e. the one year extension, is linked in the final effect to the care package. That's good. This allows us to bind up an overall package by then not only for care, but also, perhaps, for the reform of the financial balance. Since the municipalities have been mentioned several times today and the mayor's fraction here in the House is the largest group, colour independent, I would like to master the citizens and say to those who are close to the communities that we have 10.1 percent plus this year in the incomes of the municipalities and thus already more than the highest level in 2008. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Gahr.]] – A thank you to the taxpayers! This has been achieved by the good economy of the economy, by the good employment we have, and by the growth that we have been able to generate. Next year, i.e. 2012, an increase of 5.2 percent is expected, and this continues to be more than 4 percent annually for the municipalities, for the municipalities. This is a good prospect, and I believe that the concerns that still existed in 2009 have again become somewhat less. At the same time, this intensive growth in the communities also arises from the agreements that we allow them to participate in all taxes, namely this 30 percent, i.e. also in the newly created stability tax, the banking tax. The Federation shouldn't have let the communities do it. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The countries!]] – The countries, yes, Mr Mayor! That is, we have shown that we treat countries and communities and cities respectfully, at the same time as partners. And this is good because the division of tasks of both needs to be achieved. The financial compensation agreements – and so badly the financial compensation was not for the municipalities in 2008 – brought 100 million more for the municipalities, not to the cities, nor to the cities, nor to the people's key, but regardless of the fact that it was really fresh money that the then Minister of Finance Molterer granted to the municipalities. I believe that the local authorities do not currently have such a bad framework in terms of tax revenue. Mr Gaßner, Mayor of Auer, yes, I am looking forward to the financial settlement negotiations with you! I have been a colleague here in the House for years, so I have heard the discussions. Now I sit on the other side – it will be an exciting match. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13649	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13671	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Finanzminister, it is true that there has been more, but if you look at the development, you can say: Unfortunately, what we have more expenditure is not covered by what we get more. It is now also a question of creating the conditions for funding for the care fund that we have already decided on today. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the first birthers on average are older today than before, that life expectancy is rising happily, but that people also have to work longer, leads to the fact that care in the family community being carried out increasingly less and less. We are currently spending €3.9 billion on care. Over the next ten years, more than 3 billion will be needed. Therefore, it is good that we have secured the care today with almost 700 million tax-financed by 2014. It has been pointed out several times that the care fund is also a very important step in relation to the administrative reform. The Alliance the Federal Government will ensure that applications can be dealt with in a uniform manner so that they can also be handled more quickly. The fact that the communities are relieved of the cost of care is correct, but the costs of the title of 2010 remain, and the communities are certainly not saved. The funding after 2014 will continue to work on us in the near future. I hope it succeeds in finding a lasting solution. I also hope that it will succeed in giving people the same safety as in the matter of health care. Today, anyone can have any treatment done, have any surgery done without even getting an account of it, and we should also ensure that in the matter of care. It is inhuman when diligent people work out a house during their working life, finance it until retirement, and then lose it again due to care measures. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We should take up the proposals of pensioners' organizations and, above all, the proposal of the Wifo. Wifo suggests that we should finance the care through property taxes while regressing. I think that is quite possible because, on the one hand, property taxes in Austria are very low on the European average, because it is also a question of distribution justice and because, as some claim, this does not happen again and again. No, that's only true of the super-rich, and I think that's what it's all about. That is why I invite us to examine these sensible proposals and then implement them as far as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13722	No further words are available here. I'll close the debate. We shall proceed to the vote, which we shall take separately from each committee proposal. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 21. This is the request of the Financial Committee to approve the conclusion of the present agreement in 1206 in accordance with Article 15a B-VG. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 22: Draft federal law amending the 2008 financial compensation law, the Health and Social Aid Act and the 2011 Federal Financial Act, in 1211 of the Supplements. Hiezu is a member of the Magnificent. Kogler's request for separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. We come to a separate vote on Article 1(1) as amended by the Government's proposal, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this part of the draft law to be a sign of confirmation. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt, will be taken in the form of the Government template. I ask for your consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you also agree to this draft law at third reading, I ask you to sign it. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:02:53]] 23. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1254, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a Federal Law on Investment Fund (Investment Fund Act 2011 – InvFG 2011) as well as the Banking Act, the Securities Supervisory Act 2007, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Pension Scheme Act, the Employment and Self-Employee Prevention Act, the Insurance Supervisory Act, the Income Tax Act 1988, the EU Source Tax Act, the Consumer Protection Act and the Financial Security Act (1326, e.g.) 24. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1201, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the State of Qatar on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth and the Protocol (1329, e.g.) 25. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1228, e.g._Other Organiser Amendment to Annexes I and II to the Convention on the Testing and Name of Noble Metal Items (1330, e.g.) 26. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1214, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the sale of unmovable federal assets (1310 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13829	We come to items 23 to 26 of the agenda. The debate is under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13860	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If we were evil, we could simply say to item 23 on the agenda, because we are against it because we decide by this law that in the future not only Austrian funds can get the money out of the hands of the people, but also funds from all over the EU. However, we do not make it that easy – we are not evil either – because this law already provides for a number of measures which are quite welcome and which also lead to simplification and improved comparability for customers; especially the Master-Feeder structures, §§ 93 to 113, and the customer information document. To sum up, however, we have to say – and this is why our rejection of this law – that the very short period of assessment, despite such extensive matter, and above all the retroactive entry into force, despite criminal provisions and the authorisation of regulations of the FMA, takes place without any factual justification. These are just some formal and material shortcomings. We already know that the Constitutional Court will have its joy with this law, that it will lift it again. That is why we will not agree to this law either. Agenda item 24: Double taxation agreements with Qatar. – In addition to the fact that the dubious operations and events surrounding the award of the World Cup in Qatar have not yet been revealed, we do not agree with such double taxation agreements, as you know, because, in order to make these tax agreements at all possible, you have undermined Austrian banking secrecy. We just don't play with that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We reject all double taxation agreements – that is, we are still very consistent now. We shall vote in favour of item 25. An adaptation to international standards and manufacturing techniques is to be welcomed. Agenda item 26 we also agree with, but with great abdominal pain. It's very harmless, though. "Bundesgesetz on the sale of unmovable federal assets" but if you look at this more closely, especially when you were at the Budget Committee meeting and also the following day at the Court of Auditors meeting, where the subject has been dealt with, then this has already almost cabaretist trains. It is about the former General Consulate in Rio de Janeiro. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, we don't need the message is in Brasilia, we sell it! – But it’s not that way, especially when you look at the details. This property is located directly on Copacabana. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Let's make a fact finding mission!]] – Yes, exactly, Fact Finding, Mrs. Federal Minister! I trust you a lot – and I think this is positive now – and this is really a request to you: They were not there, but Mr State Secretary Arbitrator was at the Budget Committee meeting, which is why I would like to briefly report on how the question-answer game in the Budget Committee has been replaced. That's where it's called: It's just a very small property. It is located on the Copacabana, but only on the edge. Furthermore, there are very high houses on the left and on the right, but we have no permission to build up, which is why it is not worth anything at all. 40 years ago you failed to complain because of the devaluation by the high houses on the left and on the right. Now we don't need them anymore, and we don't get a building permit to build up there, which would make the property, even if we didn't build, perhaps a bit more valuable. – When the State Secretary then asked for a minimum selling price several times, of course he did not mention anyone. He even meant, maybe a lover will find himself, who likes it. So I already found the next disaster when you approach the sale of a property on Copacabana with such a financial sense. The next day in the Court of Auditors' Committee, Mr President-in-Office Moser, I drew attention to the fact that, if the property is sold – whatever he will do – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Waldner also said: Well, we want to sell and not build. Look Please take a look at this – and I really trust you, Mrs Finanzminister – so that we can achieve a fair selling price! Because I trust to bet: If we sell the property – there is an old report that provides 9 million, which nobody takes seriously anyway – if we sell it now, two weeks later the new buyer will have a permit to build up. Then the property is worth ten times, but we'll never see this money. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13904	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13926	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I am particularly pleased that at the gallery I can warmly welcome the countrymen from my hometown, Mrs. Resi Neuhofer, and their charming daughters. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the speaker.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Speaker claps three times!]] I would now like to deal with the new Investment Fund Act in which we have implied the EU directives. It will bring great security to investors and customers in particular. It will bring more transparency, because we have also involved supervision in European supervision. In addition, there are possibilities for the splitting of these funds, namely those parts which no longer have liquidity, to be separated accordingly, and to use the liquid parts for that purpose. It is a comprehensive regulation that is being redesigned here. We have also contributed to the growth tax. In short, there will be substantial improvements to what the safety of these areas has made necessary. This is now also being implemented in this form. This is therefore an important step towards regaining consumer confidence in these areas and offering the appropriate opportunities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13966	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e13988	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Point 23, Investment Fund Act: We support this because, of course, it is important in the wild growth of investment products, which are so important to the investor, who is usually not a specialist or a professional, that we establish stronger information obligations here. We shall therefore vote in favour of this proposal. However, one thing is missing, for example, that the time will be clarified – and it should be as early as possible – when the consumer will receive this information and how it will be controlled. The FMA has said that it will control this very strongly and strictly, but that is not really regulated yet. This could have been defined even more clearly, but in principle this is an important improvement. On the point of selling this property at the Copa Kagrana – now I would have said almost Copakabana – Copacabana. There the previous speaker of the FPÖ, Roman Haider, has already expressed some doubts. On the basis of these doubts, we voted against the Committee, and precisely these doubts have strengthened me once again, in the It would be useful, of course, to continue to reject this, because, in principle, it would be useful to sell this property. The money can be used well, but there is really a risk that something will happen and ultimately a lot of money will be lost. Against this background, it would probably be better not to make this sale now and to make sure that this can really be done professionally. You should wait a little while longer and then really do this sale for the benefit of the Republic of Austria. That is why we will not vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14027	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14048	Mr President. We all agree with the four item on the agenda which is under discussion here. Point 23, not precisely because EU directives have been implemented, but because they provide for a great deal of consumer protection measures, such as a useful package for the investment funds. After all! I did not want to go into the double taxation agreement with Qatar as striking as in the Committee. In principle, we agree that we were still opposed to the Committee. I'll tell you why: for symbolic reasons. But there have been certain considerations about Qatar. Only: The double taxation agreements are a consequence of the procedures we have discussed here in the House more often. We therefore remain consistent, we will agree, but it should not be completely unmentioned when Qatar is mentioned in Parliament, that the potential one has there is the creative potential of feeding – let us say it carefully; a term which unfortunately has not yet been received from us in criminal law, not even from us – given that there must be a particularly creative culture there, because otherwise it would not have been possible for Qatar to receive the award from FIFA for the award of the World Cup. I am convinced, of course, that the rules of the double taxation agreement have nothing to do with this process and, of course, that the issues of business relations and any resulting tax obligations may be well harmonised. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Not at all!]] It is also not an investment protection agreement, in which one may be involved in particularly corrupt processes out of this title, but if one knows how this world championship is to be held in Qatar, one could go on next to holding the next World Swimming Championship on the moon. Perhaps we should turn to these things too.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14083	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schickhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14104	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe it is very important that we adopt today the Investment Fund Act on the basis of EU directives and regulations. This is really timely and offers, above all, a Europe-wide uniform legal framework for investment funds. When capital is on the international road, it is important that policy is also coordinated internationally – and it does so in the context of regulations, directives and precisely these laws. Especially the interests of investor protection can be found here again. It is clear that advertising must be described as such, must be fair, must not be misleading and otherwise there are appropriate liability rules. The Customer Information Document ensures that the essential information for investors is summarized, and it is also regulated – and this is important – that the average investor must be able to understand the product on the basis of this document in order to make an informed decision. I believe that one thing is also central, because in the past it was quite common for insurance products in the past, namely that one can no longer conclude from the development of value in the past on the development of the value of the future, which is really contrary to all economic principles. This, of course, also requires the appropriate control. Financial market supervision will also be strengthened. It must approve these products, it has to monitor these products and has to pay particular attention to the economic interests of the people. Financial market supervision also has competence to order by notice that capital and profit withdrawals are prohibited, that supervisors, government commissioners are ordered and that even the continuation and operation of the business can be completely or partially prohibited. I think these opportunities are very central and, above all, embedded in the system of European financial market supervision. In summary, better comparability for investors and a higher level of protection. But one thing you have to say, too: Finally, it is a real step, but unfortunately there are still speculators and certain banks – I do not mean those who finance the house builders – as before the crisis. What now comes about with the rating agencies acting according to totally arbitrary standards, that is a real naughtiness. In the United States of America, a state can be indisputable, the American President can say that America is indisputable without a law decision that already affects the entire lid anyway, but there is still the triple A there or one is only one step down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It can't be! The European Social Democracy and the Social Democrats in Austria will continue to use us, in addition to the important national steps with the bank levy, with the securities market, and with the strengthening of financial market supervision, with great determination for the financial transaction tax and, above all, for European credit rating agencies, in order to counter these negative developments. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Tell the Federal Chancellor once!]] - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14147	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14168	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the item on the agenda, which, I believe, is in any case undisputed, namely on the question of the examination and labelling of precious metals. I have already said in committee: How precious metals are obtained; this also has an environmental, a social, a humane, a developmental impact. We have very good examples in the raw materials sector, where – for example in the Kimberley process – we can then certify diamonds as they have been won, whether they have been won with slave labor or not, whether funds won by this diamond trade flow into civil wars or not. I think that's very valuable. There is now a very sophisticated system, which has also been subject to the largest diamond dealers on this earth. It is similar, for example, with “blotrubins”, with rubies, with gemstones that come from dictatorships and where it is forbidden to deal with them within the European Union. I wish that there was something like that for precious metals. This is not currently the subject of this law, but I think it would also be worth an Austrian initiative to consider how to extend this certification process to ethical criteria, even to ecological criteria on precious metals. I would be very pleased about an initiative in this regard. I hope we can sit there and in the next few months we can do something in this direction. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14208	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14229	Mr President. However, taking into account the very wise ideas of Mr Schickhofer from the past, one must be held firm if we are to act against the speculators and against all the possibilities in this environment. The only thing is too little: Agitate inside here, place outside. We have written to Mr Faymann before the Council in Brussels a very serious letter, which is why you can also read it in the APA. You'll see that all this has hands and feet, what's there and what we're asking for. That wasn't even so much – just that you talk about what you're about when you're agitating and posterting, maybe at tables in Brussels. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] I don't know if it was. And we still want to know. But you know exactly what it's all about. It is about, of course, about certain European provisions – and if only the ESM Treaty, which is now extraordinarily established as a international treaty outside the Union institutions – we are trying to enforce something there. Since it is not recognizable that the Federal Chancellor does so, we have taken out of this power, which has more or less happened to us by chance, because BZÖ and FPÖ will certainly refuse to do something, in responsibility. And we told him: It is intended to notify a reservation of ratification for the ESM. This was politically approved in Brussels, so the formula was in the Council's protocols. It will be signed on Monday, by you, Mrs. Finanzminister. I take the opportunity to say: Make a reservation for ratification! You don't have the majority in the house for what you're doing there. But you will get it if the Austrian Federal Government is credible for what is being announced here. That alone would be a step forward in the European debate. It is even better if one or another is enforced; if not in the contract – perhaps even there, but we know what is possible in real political terms – then at least around the contract. What can't be, too, is that we are constantly singing the high song of Europe and then being elected a construction in which the European Parliament does not even occur, perhaps still beggaring for information. That doesn't fit in in the back and in the front.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14283	No further words are available here. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Draft law concerning a federal law establishing a Federal Investment Fund Act and the Banking Act, the Securities Supervision Act, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act and other laws, including title and receipt in 1254 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this draft, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. If you agree with this in third reading, I would ask for a sign to be given. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 24: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the State of Qatar on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income taxes and assets, in 1201 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(l) of the Protocol. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 25: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Amendment to Annexes I and II to the Convention on the Testing and Name of Noble Metal Items, in 1228 of the Supplements as provided for in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign on this matter. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request made by the Financial Committee within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG that the French language version of this State Treaty is to be made known by the fact that it is used for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Finance. If you're for that, I'll ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on agenda item 26: Draft federal law on the sale of unmovable federal assets and the title and receipt in 1214 of the supplements. If you support this, I would like to ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Call the BZÖ:No!]] Oh, I'm sorry! I didn't see that. [[Abg. Scheibner: We are not many, Mr President, but we are!]] . I looked at Mr Dolinschek, who took such a semi-sitting, semi-sitting attitude, and I apologise for thinking that this was unanimity. [[Rejoicing]] This is therefore accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you agree with this in third reading, I would ask for a sign to be given. - That's the majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[17:26:43]] 27. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1218 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the grant of a federal grant and other grants on the occasion of the 90th anniversary. Return of the anniversary of the referendum in Carinthia (1327 d.a.) 28. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1219, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the grant of a grant to the Federal State of Burgenland on the occasion of the 90-year membership of Austria (1328 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14363	We now come to points 27 and 28 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. The first speaker was Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14391	Mr President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! The donation of the vote on the occasion of the 90th plenary session. Return of the anniversary of the Carinthian referendum has so far been paid so much that it has been decided here in Parliament and has been paid out and distributed through the state government. In the course of all the negotiations for the referendum, it was part of the agreement that the Federal Government would take over the distribution or take over the stage without the approval of the Kärntner state government. We were a little surprised when we saw the type of distribution. On the one hand, 2 million € are distributed directly to the municipalities. The communities concerned in the voting areas can use them for projects in the municipality that are intended to serve the common interest with the Slovenian People's Group, which, I believe, makes absolutely sense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] However, we did not understand that the remaining € 2 million will be distributed to all Slovenian representatives, only € 30 000 will be used for the German-speaking old Austrians in Slovenia. We would have been pleased if the commonness and agreement found in Carinthia had also been found in the distribution of this donation of vote and the communities would have been given the full €4 million to distribute. We therefore call for separate vote to show that we agree with the distribution of € 2 million, but not with that of the remaining € 2 million, which is paid directly to the Slovenian associations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14436	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14457	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With today's decision to grant the anniversary donation, Carinthian communities in which the referendum took place at the time will receive €4 million. That's welcome. For that, I don't think you need to say anymore. It has also been established – as my previous speaker said – that 2 million dedicated projects are paid out, such as the Slovenian music school, bilingual community kindergartens, private kindergartens, cross-border cultural and economic cooperation or media and cultural projects. As stated in the Memorandum, the remaining 2 million are used to enable municipalities or districts to submit projects that actually benefit the commonness of the two ethnic groups. I have already been a little surprised or surprised by the words of my Carinthian colleague and previous speaker Linder. If you look at what is contained in this text of the law, and if you look at what is in it in the memorandum, which was signed by all and decided by the Carinthian state government and also by the party leader of the FPK, you have to say: You can put that over one another, you see, it's the same content, only the length is different. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Petzner.]] You can read it through and look at it. Two days ago, thanks to the vast majority, we finally solved the question of the placeboard. At the time, according to this swivel, your group criticised the fact that the outcome of the negotiations by Inzko was not fully respected. I really ask you now, Mr Linder – the vote has not taken place yet –: Do you want to fall back on your captain in Carinthia, who signed this? Will you not stand for a contract that has been signed? And I say it very clearly again and read it so that we also know, in a short time: The federal election donation on the occasion of the return of the referendum in 1920 is expected to amount to €4 million in accordance with the Council of Ministers template. The disbursement and settlement will be made directly by the federal government. A corresponding law is planned by summer 2011. The allocation of funds is to take place with the involvement of the groups and the communities concerned. Among other things, the Slovenian music school and so on and so on and the projects that are already intended are to be financed. [[Abg. Jury: Memorandum!]] There is no deviation between the text of the law and the memorandum which was clearly decided in Carinthia. Let us take this decision in good faith, and let us see that you or at least some of you are not still today on the last day of the plenary session – at least the FPK and the FPÖ are probably doing in Vienna at Carinthian topics what the FPK says – in Vienna does the opposite of what was decided by you in Carinthia. I would like to thank myself as a Carinthian for this donation and say that the basis for this donation is past events, and with this donation projects will be financed for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14500	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14521	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Obernosterer is quite right in his argument, and I am also surprised at the position of the FPK Members here in Parliament and also before in the committee, because this attitude of the FPK representatives is the opposite of what was decided in the FPK Board of State and above all what the negotiator for the country of Carinthia, namely your head of state Gerhard Dörfler, has negotiated with the negotiating parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] Your head of state has negotiated this vote in this form. That is, if you vote against it today, you will vote against a negotiation outcome of your country captain. – Also very provocative! But I think the true background is quite different, ladies and gentlemen. We have already publicly criticised this in the run-up to the Committee, namely the distribution and also the fact that the country of Carinthia has nothing to do with the allocation of funds. Then the FPK has once again become a bit nervous and has at least made a swing in the Parliament in Vienna. We stay with our rejection. We have rejected the distribution in this form from the very beginning and we have also rejected the outcome of the negotiations achieved by Mr Dörfler. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I recall my remarks on Wednesday’s issue in the local panel, where I said that behind the question of sheet metalboards a very big, yes, the central problem of the popular conflict has been the preference of the Slovenian people group on the one hand and the disadvantage of the German-speaking majority population on the other hand, particularly in promoting over years. With this proposal for the distribution of the vote, exactly this injustice, this unjust distribution of the funds, is continued, not ended, but continued. If you look at the distribution of the 2 million, you can see that more than €500 000 of this goes to organisations of the Slovenian people, while there is nothing left for the German-speaking and only more than €30 000 for the old Austrians in Slovenia. A comparison: €30 000 for the old Austrians in Slovenia on the occasion of the 90. Return of the anniversary of the referendum. At 80. Return in 2000 it was still €360 000. So alone this leap down shows how unfair the distribution of these means is. That is why we reject this government proposal, because – once again! – this preference on the one hand and the disadvantage on the other is a central problem of the conflict of the ethnic groups. Why Dörfler has negotiated this way is now also clear. Mr Valentin Inzko, with whom I do not share much else, but that was very significant, has said in numerous media opinions that the attempt has been made – and that is actually an exasperation – to buy the approval of the People's Group Council. He said that! And this government template on the distribution of funds confirms precisely that some of the officials of various Slovenian organisations were not convinced by the power of the arguments, but by the effect of the tax money. the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen. And we certainly cannot support such an approach. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If Mr Dörfler does, this is his case and then he needs explanation. We therefore also have an amendment tabled by Mr Petzner, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. This one was, I think, also distributed. That is why I need to explain it only in the basics. This amendment is based on the bill, the decision of the law of 2000, and takes the distribution, i.e. the distribution key of the funds in 2000, where there was no difficulty at all, no protests about the distribution, as a model. This means: € 3 million to improve the infrastructure in the voting area, € 700 000 for confidence building measures in the sense of living together of both groups and € 300 000 for the old Austrians in Slovenia. That would be the distribution key we propose. As has been said, it was adopted in 2000. This was also set in a similar form in 2005, and this should be the model now. Again: This was a just distribution key, which did not raise any protests either. One more comment: We also reject it because the Federal Republic of Carinthia as a whole has nothing to do with the distribution of these 2 million for the voting communities. So far, the People's Advisory Council has been in charge, they have been disarmed, and they are using their own advisory board. There are, of course, nice reds and blacks divided into them: one sitting inside for the Chancellor's Office, one for the Ministry of Finance, one for the Ministry of Education and one for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The country of Carinthia, the object – how should I say? – this execution is not at all acceptable. We think this is wrong, even illogical and unwarranted, and therefore reject the establishment of a new advisory board. Final sentence: We have agreed to the local map solution, but we have also said that more is needed for the peaceful co-existence of both groups in Carinthia and for corrections to be made. With this government template and this law-making decision But it's exactly the opposite. They do not promote co-existence, but with this law they only make the graves between the two groups deeper, with the support of the Carinthian head of state Gerhard Dörfler and against the votes – but you have to do so – of the FPK delegates.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14626	The amendment tabled is distributed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14703	Mr Linder wishes to see an actual correction. It shall begin with the reproduction of the allegation to be corrected and shall be compared to the corrected facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14727	Mr Stefan Petzner claimed that the state captain Gerhard Dörfler had negotiated the exact distribution of the donation. It is true that the head of state Gerhard Dörfler has negotiated that the federal government is making the distribution and has not negotiated an exact percentage. Mr Petzner also claimed that we had decided on the exact distribution in the National Party Board. It is true that Stefan Petzner is of course not present at the State Party Board and we have not decided to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14781	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14802	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! There is also a second federal state that celebrates the 90-year membership of the Republic of Austria, namely the federal state of Burgenland. This country is also to be granted a grant of €4 million for this occasion. The funds are also intended, I will not go further on them. But let me, please, find a different perspective on access to ‘90 years of Austria’ in this context. The history and development of the Burgenland are characterized by political and historical influences. Among the most important of the special features of Burgenland are the climatic and natural environment, the meeting of Alps and Low Plains, the continental, Atlantic and Mediterranean climate, the Neusiedler Lake and its unique flora and fauna, the transparent structures and the absence of large cities associated with a working life of different folk and religious groups, the variety of thermal and mineral waters and the fame – which must also be mentioned – as an area with excellent wines, the Burgenische Festspiele and the great musical tradition for such a small country, the centuries, even millennia old border country situation with the special situation of a life on the iron curtain, march and transit area with the accompanying appearances of depopulation and resettlement, for example for reasons of religion, the corridor function of this region with old trade routes such as the Berne Road. The Burgenland is the second most recent state in Austria after Vienna and Austria's only gain after the First World War. The Burgenland is the only federal country whose name was erased in the Nazi era. I think these are good reasons to celebrate the 90 years of Burgenland away from the public.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14836	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14857	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say to my colleague Obernosterer that I am already very right and feel it is more than strong – “strange” is not allowed to say that “absolute” would be better understood by the liberals – i.e., more than strange, that in Sunday’s speeches – it was obvious that Sunday’s speeches were made, that the common speech was somehow conjured, and that the peaceful set-up and pipapo – was said that Doerfler, who has negotiated the town boards and can be celebrated for that purpose, also signed the memorandum in which certain achievements were also mentioned. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] They were, in the end, the It was the basis of the law. And now you are voting against financial distributions, which are also contained in the law and in the memorandum. I did not want to speak at all at all, because this was happening for me anyway, also in the Financial Committee. Now I read and hear that the liberals will vote against the distribution of this donation. So that's where all the alarm bells ring. This is now obviously the real face of the FPÖ. Otherwise, I can't judge that. There the schools should be secured anyway, the music school anyway, we have heard this a few times today, the media, the culture. All that sufferings and has no money would have been secured. And it's in the memorandum when we bring the literal quotations: Award with the involvement of the ethnic groups. – The award must therefore be made with the involvement of the ethnic groups. Distribution by the federal government with the involvement of the ethnic groups, that is exactly what has been done and that is exactly what has to be decided today. And there is no reason at all to not agree to this now, except to incite that, in turn, enmity. You want that clearly, and that is really very sad. The German-speaking minority of the Old Austrians in Slovenia is also sold in the same way, which has been renegotiated at first; it is now still being betrayed. We were actually opposed to the vote in 2005 for a simple reason: because it has not been listed in detail who gets it. And now everything is listed in detail, and a little bit I have the feeling that you don't want it. You want the dungeon to get the money. The government is supposed to pay, the dungeon is out. Anyone who is willing, who is good, gets a hundred in between, like Haider did, and then everything goes great. We can't sign that! And I am glad that there is a majority in this Parliament who does not want to do so any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14905	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14927	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A warm thanks to Mr Haberzettl for his advertising contribution to the Burgenland. Because of your contribution, some colleagues have already decided to go on vacation in Burgenland. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Thank you very much, Mr Haberzettl, for supporting the “Pro Bahn” citizens’ initiative, which is committed to the failure to carry the closure of the Oberwart – Friedberg railway. I was very surprised that you, as ÖBB's board of directors, are supporting this because the ÖBB left the track just before. So I don't know very well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Somewhere, it seems, two heart beats in your chest. But perhaps, if you have discovered the love for Burgenland, you can now also ensure that this railway connection is not closed. It's really a heartpiece of southern Burgenland. This will open up the central economic area of the south of Burgenland. No one understands why this route was left up by the ÖBB, probably due to the lack of contributions from land and government. But now to Burgenland. Let me briefly mention some historical data. It was not a very simple thing to become the Burgenland. I don't know how You know that, especially in the years between 1918 and 1921, the population of Burgenland was massively impoverished by Hungarian Free Schärler that in 1921 there were many deaths in the so-called land takeover by the Austrian Gendarmerie. Nine Austrian gendarmen were killed on the border between Kirchschlag and Lockenhaus, for example, and other deaths also occurred. Also, the country's becoming itself was not easy, because four Hungarian commissions, which were centrally oriented to Budapest, were created a new federal state, which had to start with a name that was finally found with Eisenstadt in 1925. The fact that it was not economically simple at that time also shows that 25 000 citizens have emigrated at that time. You may know that between 1938 and 1945 the name Burgenland was not existent and that it was not obvious that there was a Burgenland again after 1945. After 1945 or 1955 it really went up economically. For me personally and for many Burgenlanders, the time from 1989 onwards is certainly a hopeful time, with the fall of the Iron Curtain, with the accession of Austria to the EU, with the fact that the Burgenland became Objective 1 territory. With Hungary's accession in 2004 and Hungary's accession to the Schengen area, this country has returned to the heart of Europe. That's our chance. However, from my point of view, it is also our duty to contribute to a peaceful cooperation. In this sense, I believe that we will also make massive use of this money and meet our obligation accordingly. – Thank you very much for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e14994	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15015	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I thank the Federal Government very much for the funding of €4 million. In advance, a warm thank you for the unanimous approval of this grant of €4 million on the occasion of the 90-year membership of my home country Burgenland to Austria. I can say that we Burgenländer have no problems – neither now nor in the past – with regard to the living together of the peoples in our country. Before 1921, the Burgenland was in the current borders, as we now know it, not known under the name “Burgenland”, but under the name “Deutsch-Westungarn”. We also had a period from 1938 to 1945, where the Burgenland disappeared from the map. Due to the results of the Jalta conference, the Burgenland has recovered, as has the remaining Republic of Austria. The following was a country on the border to the Iron Curtain, where it was silent to set appropriate economic accents. This changed from 1989, when it fell, and above all, as mentioned above, with EU accession in 1995. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The outstanding positive development in recent years and decades has been characterised by the zeal and endurance of the castles of the people, but also by political cooperation across party borders, under the leadership of the Social Democrats and the Social Democratic heads of state, to the current head of state, who is very committed to the further economic and innovative development of our country. The Burgenland is on the trail. I may only mention two or three very short details. It is we who last year had the highest Maturant ratio of all Austrian federal states with 46 percent. This did not trust us in the 1950s, 1960s. [[Abg. Petzner: Say something about the “success” of Bank Burgenland!]] Furthermore, we are also the country's country of environmental chairmanship number one. We already generate 60 percent of the electricity needed from alternative energy plants in the country and will be 100% power-efficient from 2014 onwards. [[Abg. Petzner: Say something to Bank Burgenland!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you once again for your unanimous support for this grant. I am proud that I am a Burgenländer, and I am very happy, and I am also proud that I am Austrian, as well. I thank you again on behalf of all my countrymen for your decision to take in Bälde. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15073	No further words are available. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall be voting on Agenda item 27: Draft federal law on the grant of a federal grant and other grants on the occasion of the 90th anniversary. Return of the anniversary of the referendum in Carinthia in 1218 of the supplements. To this end, Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a total amendment. There is also a request for a separate vote on § 2(2) of Mrs Linder, colleagues. We shall therefore first vote on the amendment mentioned, then on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the overall amendment tabled by Mr Petzner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on § 2(2) of the draft as amended by the Government template. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I would ask you to agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you also support the proposal in third reading, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is decided by a majority. The draft was also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the 28th. Agenda item: Draft federal law on the granting of a grant to the Federal State of Burgenland on the occasion of its 90-year membership with Austria, including the title and receipt in 1219 of the supplements. If you're in favour of this bill, I'll ask you for a sign of it. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you are aware of this in third reading, I would ask you to give you an appropriate sign. - That's unanimity. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[17:55:09]] 29. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 1544/A by Mr Mag. Kurt Gässner, Jakob Auer, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Remuneration Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (1308 d.b.) 30. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft Federal Law amending the Federal Railway Pension Act and the Federal Law on the Employment of Parliamentary Employees (Parliament Workers' and Parliament Workers' Act) (1309, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15187	We now come to the items 29 and 30 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The debate opens up to Mr Grastaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15211	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I asked for a separate vote on these legislative proposals because we can agree in two cases and unfortunately not in two cases. We will agree on the slight improvement of parliamentary staff and parliamentary staff. I think our employees deserve a little support for the fees. Thank you, too. Especially on the last days, where we have worked until late into the night, they have done a very good job. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also agree on the periodic delivery of pension contributions from mayors; I do not want to explain this. Unfortunately, we cannot agree on the increase of the limit of commitment for mayors and local politicians. It is planned to raise this limit to €4,000 per month. I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I. Internally, I believe that the limit of trust for all others, for example for the ASVG staff or pensioners, is 357 €, monthly. The SPÖ always speaks of justice. I wonder if that's what you're doing here. It's probably not about a lot of cases, but you start here again to be jealous, because what do you say to an ASVG-pensionist who knows that the mayor of his place can earn $4,000 without losing anything while the ASVG-pensionist is not allowed to do so. I don't think that's all right. Secondly, we are once again opening new privileges that we want to bring away, because we should try to bring everyone – officials, employees, workers – to the ASVG principles and conditions. [[Mr Hörl and Mr Rädler's calls.]] This is also recommended by the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen. I think there's another reason: At the moment, it is not going very well with regard to the mood in the country, and it wants to keep its mayors satisfied. But I don't think you can prevent the further land slide. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] We will also reject the project to change the unemployment insurance system for local politicians. More precisely, Mr Linder, what we mean by this will be done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15277	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15302	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grastaur, who takes democracy seriously, must ensure that we also have sufficient staff in the communities. I believe that it is also important at the lower level that democracy and the representation of citizens are guaranteed. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] With this decision, we ultimately allow a certain age group to continue to engage in municipal politics or new ones. I believe that local policy – and I speak from my own experience, which I am mayor of the day exactly 32 years – is the most difficult but also the most beautiful work of a politician. Especially local politicians, especially municipal councils and executives from the board areas, are also volunteering in many areas. But the demands of time have brought with it that the time spent on mayors, vice-presidents and board members in larger communities has become more uneven and the challenges are more difficult. That is why, no matter what group, I expressly say, these mandates are absolutely grateful, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I thank you for this arrangement, for this fairness. Of course it would be desirable if this were to be extended, that is no question, because pension schemes in the public service are still a problem compared to other insurance groups – that is undisputed! – but it was important to produce fairness at least once for this area. I remember: In many federal states, there was only one candidate for this function in the last municipal council elections in quite a few municipalities. & Edit It is difficult to find candidates for this. This measure could also be an incentive for more people to apply for this function. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all the political groups who have voted in favour of this measure today. I am very grateful to Mr Gaßner for his cooperation in this area. But I am a little surprised at the fact that your issue has forgotten a mandate to which this measure deserves a great deal, namely colleague Otto Pendl, who has tried with me for years to implement it. I would like to express my thanks to Mr Pendlein for his support. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] – The individual details of this provision will then be explained by Mr Wöginger. I also welcome the new regulation for parliamentary staff because it is important that an improvement be made here. However, I add: As far as employee support and support for mandates are concerned, we really need a follow-up in Austria compared to the Federal Republic of Germany. Here you should have so much courage to say: If we do not already have the same rules, there would be at least a significant improvement here – in addition to this improvement for parliamentary staff who do great work for the mandates – more than appropriate.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15383	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15404	Mr President. Mr Auer, it is not easy to do so, because if one acknowledges – and this recognition, I believe, of all the political groups – that we have a problem in terms of the limits or the current rules, then that does not mean that this form, namely the creation of a political privilege, is the only possible solution. This is according to the motto: We know that we have problems in general, but with the politicians we take a first step, and the rest has had bad luck! There are also other situations that are extremely problematic – and I also say this because honourable Member Otto Pendlvorh has been addressed –: If, as has already been mentioned, ASVG early pensioners have a commitment limit of €374, one will have to explain why politicians have €4,000 as a limit. I emphasize: 4000 € reference to community level! But we are no longer talking about the small communities, where we usually have this situation. Everyone knows that. [[Abg. Wöginger: Small and medium-sized communities!]] Small and medium-sized communities have 4 000 euros of mayorship? [[Abg. Jakob Auer: In Vorarlberg much higher!]] In Vorarlberg much higher! – Let’s look at the height of the references. Then I'd say, At 4 000 €, at 3 800 € We do not need to think about whether people have a dramatic emergency, so that we have to create a special arrangement. At the same time, if we have the situation that – and now I look at the SPÖ representatives – we have a corridor pension scheme, where you can only go with discounts in early retirement, where discounts are paid and where there are no benefits at all, I wonder: In view of this, how can we explain to anyone that a privilege is created here for politicians? [[Abg. Schönpass: You could act in the community!]] You could be in the community? . So we are making a special arrangement where politicians are excluded; they are allowed to earn up to €4,000, that is not due to them, but to everyone else. [[New call of the abg. Nice pass.]] Then we'll talk about other things! – Why is there still the situation in this country that we have political pensions – some of which are also concerned here – where we have not yet managed to have at least reasonable payments from the pension scheme? How do you explain that in Austria there are still 10 000 € of pensions from political reference and have been repeatedly tried to keep the pension contribution as low as possible? This is, of course, the creation of a privilege. I see that you have to think about how to deal with the situation of losing the pension immediately, when you get a pension, but only apply it to politicians and then say: Well, other pensioners can also work in the municipality and then get involved there!, I honestly say, Mrs Schönpass, is not going! We cannot carry this form. We are therefore in line with the voting behaviour of the FPÖ. It is not acceptable to create a new privilege here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15480	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15501	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Speaking of privileges, especially when working in the community area, where not only the mayor is affected, but – it has already been said – all the people there, who are actually – and all here in here – representing the cell of democracy and who are willing to really work there, seems to me to be a little far-reaching. This is not only what I see, but – and you know it very well – it is also constitutionally secured. Professor Mayer clearly says that these are not privileges, because they are not a position on the labour market, but a political mandate. If one has a political mandate and comes to the early retirement, and then if one continues to engage in municipal politics, let the pension rest, and have to get 2 000, 3,000 €, then one will surely say: No, I don't care! I cannot understand why one does not recognize these concerns of local politicians. [[Abg. Brosz: What is the average pension in Austria?]] These are people who work around the clock for the citizens. And we all know exactly – Mr Auer has already said it – how difficult it is to inspire someone to act in politics. I understand that opposition is also to be opposed if the government parties want something. But we do not want it for ourselves, we want it for all the local politicians affected by it. If you continue to think about it and perhaps think about why this is going on with the officials and not with the others, then you have to say: That is to be changed, and we are also happy to be willing to do so. Only: Why it is now here thank God at last has the reason for being under pressure there. Anyone who can now retire will stop because he does not do the second job if he does not get the pension. I do not wish there were more and less qualified people working there in local policy. I wish we had good, capable local politicians in our communities in particular. And this is a small step towards eliminating an injustice that exists here. I would like to thank all those who have tried to find a solution here. It took years. Mr Auer has repeatedly resisted all the contradictions and all counter-movements. But I would particularly like to thank Mrs Gabriele Kotzegger, who was really tireless in trying to make this legislative text so as to keep it constitutionally. And that was successful. Thank you very much, dear Gabi! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that every one of you who has to do with communities, parish officials and parish officials has already been presented with this problem. And now, even if you don't agree, you can go and say: We have now reached this solution for you! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15544	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15565	Mr President. High house! I've been a municipal politician for 23 years in a community with a small councillor, little councillor, and I have to say: What you've put on arguments here is really cockbled! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Go!]] A minimum pensioner has to get 770 €, and you say a politician, a mayor can earn 4 000 €. So that's what you have to argue in public! – You can't argue that, colleague Gaßner! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Talk to the...!]] I've already talked to them. And who is it, Mr Gaßner? – Let’s be honest: It's a handful of officials. As far as I know, no mayor elections are currently planned or pending to a large extent. It is a handful of functional, mainly red and black politic functionaries – by chance, of course. It's the one that hits. There are privileges! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And the small minimum pensioner, you leave it completely in the rain. There is already a knowledge of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the officials, which shows in the right direction, because the officials – under quotations – have no “rest provisions” which may be deserved without limitation. Now you can say that is a privilege – but one in the right direction. I'll tell you one thing: Let's not take this step here today, that's the completely wrong signal! In times of saving, in times where billions are being sent to Greece, ÖVP and SPÖ are going here and saying that the mayors are allowed to earn 4,000. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Here they agree!]] There you are, that's the only thing: when spending money for Greece, simplified, and for the political officials. And that is not reasonable for this country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That doesn't cost anything! What's that cost?]] I say it again: No matter what it costs, it's the wrong signal! [[Abg. May. Gässner: That doesn't cost anything!]] Save and be role models, Mr Gaßner and Mr von der ÖVP's colleagues, and do not throw the money out! I would like to see the headline in the “Kronen Zeitung” if politicians can earn ten times more, almost €4,000, to the pension than the normal ASVG insured person, who can earn €374 per month. These are conditions which we cannot support in this country, and that is why the BZÖ will certainly not agree. Another sentence: Colleagues has argued that politicians are active in the service of the general public. Now a question to Social Democracy: An ASVG early pensioner who is involved in the care sector is not active in the service of the general public? But he has this maximum limit of merit. So I don't understand this appreciation, and I don't think that an ASVG early retirementist who is involved in the care sector is doing less valuable work than a mayor. Coming to the end: If you believe you no longer find functionals, there can be help: Voices If you accept our proposals for reform, we put together many communities, then we also need fewer staff!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15673	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15694	Mr President. High house! I can't understand the opposition here that she doesn't agree to this package. It contains a point concerning the transfer of pension contributions from public mandates to the competent pension insurance. We currently have the situation that at the end of the political career, our pension contributions, including all Members of the State, all mayors, all public mandates, will be transferred to the competent pension insurance institution. There's no other professional group. That is why this is only an equality with the entire occupational system. And that's also cost-neutral. Mr Widmann, this is cost-neutral! These contributions will always apply, at the latest, when we leave our political careers. And we now decide by this law that the pension contributions will be transferred monthly to the competent pension insurance institution, as in any other profession. This is not an additional cost, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] We empower the countries to comply with the law in their country by the end of March 2012 for the Landtagsdelegates and for the mayors. The second, the mayor's history with the limit of merit. Ladies and gentlemen, this has always been unanimously demanded by all the political groups in the Community, and as far as I know, each group also has mayors. Although there are not as many as ÖVP and SPÖ, all political groups are represented with mayors in Austria, and the municipal government has always called for this. And don't be angry with me. Labour market policy has no impact, nor does it cost! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That costs the missing discounts! That's what it costs!]] Mr Widmann, once I hear this in Upper Austria, that it is going to cost extra costs, then there will be an answer from us. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The missing discounts cost it!]] It's not a cost! We are acting responsibly here and we are behind our municipal mandates, especially our mayors, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The third point is social security, a framework period for unemployment insurance, and I think that is justified. We do not introduce unemployment insurance contributions here, but we are making a framework measure. This is about those who can make use of it at the end of their function. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: It is a special concern for me to address the parliamentary staff, which I also welcome at the gallery. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We shall implement a unanimous decision in the Staff Advisory Board with regard to the payment of fees. Secondly, we are turning them into the new salary scheme so that the automatic salary adjustment becomes possible. I would like to thank all Members of Parliament very much. You do a great job for us, often also until the night hours. A warm thank you for your active support!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15768	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15789	Mr President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! In principle, the political function must never lead to a disadvantage. I think we all agree on this. However, I also believe that it is a problem if, due to the political function, a better creation is granted to the normal earner or to the ASVG employee. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] I believe that this request by my colleagues Auer and Gaßner in many areas is very important and very good, but also things that, I think, are difficult to represent. In the case of incapacity for work: I believe that the normal ASVG-pensionist outside, who is in early retirement, is really hard to explain why the other is allowed to go and earn in early retirement. That's a problem! If we also wish that there would be a possibility that he could stay, the normal politician, mayor, better deserved councillor, but I think that's the wrong way. If we need mayors, if we need politicians, we should seek a different solution here, which will allow us to exercise the function – that is because I believe that we politicians must remain comparable to the regular ASVG staff. On the point of unemployment insurance: That's right. That's the deadline. No problem, that makes sense, it doesn't cost. On the other hand, there is a real question of raising the reference limits. Additional the same: How do I explain to the ordinary citizen outside that he does not have the same right that I have as mayor or a local representative? The periodic delivery of contributions is very important. Anyone who deals with it will know, that must be broken on the tongue: 12 percent will be deducted monthly from your expenses compensation, placed on an account. Interests remain in the community, and if the community is bad, it can even consume the money. If a mayor then leaves after three, four periods and no money is available, a credit must be credited that this can be discharged. We have called for a separate vote because we will support these areas. I just think we should seek a common solution in order to really improve the mayors, but it must remain comparable. It must remain comparable that it is to be explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15840	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15862	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is already tradition here that as important and meaningful materials as those which are now to be decided by the opposition parties are so miscredited. With these provisions, which, under quotations, is “Citizen’s Master’s Regulation” has been found for the mandates who are on-site on-the-spot and who are closest to their population on a daily basis and who carry out their work with great responsibility and success, in the sense that, if a person is a successful mayor or a municipal mandater and has acquired the right to early retirement, for example, he must not give up the job as mayor or vice-president in order to obtain his pension, his early retirement pension. I think that this is a fair system that we are deciding on today, and is also reasonable. I would like to say that if there is a limit of 374.22 per month here, where the I-pension or inability to work can also be required in the ASVG area at the same job, I would like to mention: It is a recognition for the mandates that this limit is set at 3,998,40 for their activities. I think they deserved it. In the case of unemployment insurance, if we provide for this period of time, it makes sense. It is a good solution if someone gives up his bread-working job to go into politics at the municipal level, and he then, for some reason, returns to this mayor's office that, if he has spent more than three years in this office, he can resort to this unemployment claim. I think ladies and gentlemen, this is a very, very good arrangement today. I would also like to thank all those involved, our Gabi Kotzegger, our Kurt Gaßner, Jakob Auerund Otto Pendlim Vorfeld. They have shown that politics is personally attacking that politics understands to help those who need our help. I think it is a very, very good day for local policy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15905	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e15926	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! They adopt a law here and today that is quite a privilege. It's a classic inequality treatment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the ÖVP: You don't need it, you're an officer!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] He says that's an official. So an official must agree, because this is a privilege for officials. - No, he doesn't have to! And I'll tell you something about it: Why is someone going to be mayor? Has anyone been forced to do so? He recruits for an office of inner conviction. No man is forced to do so! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You can find out about a better situation, of course, all of us together, but a better creation must apply to everyone. That is incomprehensible why this should not apply to the entire ASVG area! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Therefore, such inequality treatment – and you have to take note of this – is also to be described as a privilege. The argument of Mr Wöginger goes completely empty: It doesn't cost us anything! . So with all that is decided on here, one does not, in the case of at least revenue, the reduction. Therefore, the following remains: It's a privilege, and you won't be able to win us for privileges!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16014	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16035	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speaker has now made the Blamage perfect for the opposition, because if an official is the mayor and makes himself there and speaks like this, I have to say: That's self-evident! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The requirements in the communities are dramatic and will demand violent people over the next few years. We all know the financial problems. There will also be new opportunities for reform. And we need best-qualified people. This regulation, which improves the social situation of mayors and local politicians, is also a signal. It pays respect and recognition for what is being done here. And that's exactly where the crucial difference lies. This is what Mr Brosz said about the Greens: This is justified in fact, because if someone works for the general public, for the common good, for the res publica in the end, then this is a difference to the pure private money earned! Legal science also makes it clear that you know that, Professor Mayer says, it is factually justified that there will be differences here. [[Abg. May. Widmann: This is a case for the Constitutional Court!]] I would like to thank the colleagues of ÖVP and SPÖ for not forgetting the town and local government. Some in the opposition have differentiated, but most of them have not been able to resist practicing polemics here, and in their zeal have overlooked the following: that the media have long been very balanced, very differentiated, responsible and fair reports on this matter too. I would also like to express my express thanks for the very, very positive report on this subject in the media. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16082	There are no further words available here. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the various committee proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 29: Draft federal law which amends the Federal Remuneration Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and other laws. Mr Hiezu has asked for a separate vote. I shall therefore vote first of all on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on Rule 1 as amended by the Committee's report. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. If you agree, I would ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever joins this draft in third reading, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is decided by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 30: Draft federal law amending the Federal Railway Pension Act and the Federal Law on the Employment of Parliamentary Employees in 1309 of the Supplements. There is also a request for a separate vote on Rule 2 of the draft by the honourable Member Grastaur and Magistrate. Kogler before. I shall therefore vote first of all on the part which the two requests for separate vote concerned and finally on the remaining parts of the draft, which have not yet been voted on. We shall first proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever joins the draft in third reading, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[18:27:20]] 31. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1200 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas (1348 d.b.) 32. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1370/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the abolition of the hospital cost contribution for organ donors (1349, e.g.) 33. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1541/A(E) by Dr Andreas Karlsböck, colleagues on centrally managed and exploitable implant register (1350 d.B.) 34. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 1562/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, Members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities (1351 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16226	We now come to points 31 to 34 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate led Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16253	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Imagine the situation you'd get sick and need an artificial hip joint. Then you are lucky in the accident because today we are adopting a law that should make waiting times in hospitals more transparent than it is at present. Until now, it is unfortunately so – and the Austrians know only too well – that it is here
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16275	There is enough time for all political groups to discuss. I am therefore seeking to refrain from talking to small groups! Please, honourable Member, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16299	Currently it is that, if a person who gets sick needs a hospital appointment, an OP date, he has the feeling that here is measured by two measures, because the situation is the following: on the one hand, those who are privileged to know or who have an additional insurance, and who come in the order a little earlier, and on the other side are those who have to wait. This will be put to an end today, and we would like to agree with the government party's request in this regard. The second is that we have tabled a bill to introduce a centrally managed and evaluable implant register. Background the The history is that in the spring of this year in Vorarlberg there have been very unpleasant incidents, namely: Patients had to re-operate an already used hip implant because of the significant weakness. This should not have been because errors had already occurred in Australia in 2007, but nobody in Europe knew that. And the same product also occurred in Europe in 2010, in England and Ireland, but nobody knew it either. Why didn't anyone know? – Because there is no central register for such products. We should change that, and for this reason we want a centrally managed, exploitable implant register to be introduced. This instrument in the back allows sufficient information to be exchanged both within Austria and beyond the national borders. It is still important to mention a third point, namely that senior representatives are also invited to participate in the Ethics Commission. I would like to take this opportunity to address another point that is very important to me. Yesterday, in Germany, in the context of a very emotional ethical discussion, where it was specifically about the so-called Preimplantation Diagnostics Act, it was decided on this very subject. It is about examining embryos that are fertilized outside the human body, and then it is decided which are planted and replanted and which are not. Regardless of the current case, I would like to stress that this discussion in our neighbouring country has been very cultivated for years and has really been very interesting, and I would like to say that this should also be possible in Austria. For this reason, I would like to see a similar, high-quality discussion taking place in this country, across all groups of society and, above all, beyond the borders of the parties. – I heard that there are approaches. I would also like to stress in this context – the last sentence – that, on the other hand, it should not be just the case with the Ethics Commission that there is obviously a Presidency that unfortunately makes party political tendencies prevail in the approach. This is not possible with such an honorable body, and I would ask that these tendencies not invade, but are even reversed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16353	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16375	Mr President. Federal Minister! Exciting which party political tendencies occur at the Bioethics Commission. So the last thing I heard in the matter is that we had a very good event on how to deal with the pre-implantation diagnostic, where the health spokespersons of all parties were present, including your party's health spokesperson, who at the time said that she is for the pre-implantation diagnosis. We have heard that the FPÖ has already changed its opinion and said it again, so it was not meant. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Well, selection is not just unproblematic!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsböck.]] It was a very constructive discussion on how we deal with it and how we start the process, but there was nothing party-political there, I would say now, but that was a very well-led discussion. But on the subject: Today we have the health and health insurance law on the agenda, and Mr Karlsböck has already mentioned that what we already have in Vienna last year, namely a transparent waiting period register for operations, should now also be introduced throughout the country. I think this is a very, very big progress, simply because people know because of when they get along with their operations, because it ensures that transparent data protection-secured, anonymous registers are kept. That means you don't have to fear that, I say now, the boss or anyone else can call by name, when someone is going to operate and with what diagnosis. I think the ministry has succeeded in a really big throw. As I said, we have already introduced this in Vienna, and I can only say that the experience from Vienna shows that waiting times for operations have been significantly reduced, so that there has not been any dissatisfaction regarding this question, but – quite the contrary! – great satisfaction. I think we can be pleased that we will now also have this in all of Austria. I think the inclusion of a representative of the seniors in the Ethics Commission is an important step, not least because we should try to take into account the elderly people, who, of course, also often use health services. You there, in the Ethics Commission, to give you a seat and a voice, is another improvement that is now made in the Hospital and in the Kuranstaltengesetz. What Mr Karlsböck has forgotten to mention is the establishment of a victim protection group, including for elderly victims of domestic violence. We know that there are child protection groups where the hospitals are already trying to provide assistance to children affected by domestic violence. We know, however, that there are also full-year victims, partly from the disabled area, where we believe that it is very important, because not less than children, of course, such people are also affected by violence, to create a possibility that these people are also supported by a victim protection group. This is especially good for women. We know that domestic violence takes place very often against women. We therefore consider this to be a very, very important step in women's policy. The question of the absence of the obligation to contribute to organ donors is another point contained in this law. People who donate an organ for altruistic reasons are therefore to be freed from all hospital expenses in the future. – That too, I think, is a useful thing, because, as we know, transplants are taking place in Austria, but there are still too few organ donors. Therefore, people who donate an organ to their brother - in - law, sister, or anyone else when the organs fit should not impose additional costs. In addition, Mr Haubner has made an application for the abolition of hospital expenses for organ donors who are brain-dead. We have already explained in the committee that there is no longer any such thing. The question has been asked whether hospital costs are incurred for people who are still kept alive as organ donors, although they are dead. – This is not the case because with the brain death, death also occurs and people then do not make a hospital contribution. Mr Haubner then asked whether, in principle, the hospital stays could be taken more or less with them. – I think you just have to discuss this and see what dimension it is in. But I believe that this is quite a reasonable approach. On the question of the implant register: Mr Karlsböck, you have asked for something we already have. There are already, on the basis of the regulation from the BGBl. I No. 77/2008, the Medical Products Act, a centrally managed register, and these reports are also kept there. For example, you can already look on the side of the Federal Office for Health Security and find what is recalled, what is somehow harmful or suspected of causing damage. - That's what we've got. That is why we have also made a further motion for a resolution on the matter, and we have foreseen the following – and I think that is a very, very big step forward on the issue of implants: Not only do we want to look at what is happening in the medical device vigilance, but we have for the first time determined that we also want to try to get data to get the result quality from implantation of prostheses. This has been extended by hip joint prostheses on knee joint prostheses. I believe that this is an important step towards quality results measurement, which has not yet taken as much place in Austria as in other countries. I believe that Minister Stöger has done a great deal with these templates.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16419	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16441	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! This time I find it easy to agree to this change of law. It is essentially positive in all respects. It is also true that some things are possible across party borders, which have now been said several times. In the last committee, I say, this has begun very delicately, and I hope that will continue. A proposal only: One might well agree on what should still be done in the health system, and sit down in this regard – at least the health speakers of all parties. It would also not be bad to get in touch with them before everyone has set out or before being put before finished facts, where admittedly one is no longer really moving. I am very pleased that within the framework of internal medicine and pediatrics departments for psychosomatics can be established. This is very important in this respect, because extreme deficits are to be found here, and for departments for psychosomatics at psychiatric clinics – without now wanting to say anything to psychiatrists – but the entrance barrier for parents and their children is quite different from on internal medicine and child and youth medicine. The introduction of transparent waiting lists has been waiting for a long time, but I am still very glad that it has it in the field of ophthalmology, orthopaedics and the neurosurgery. This concerns the orthopedics especially hips, and there would be already to complain that one has forgotten the accident surgery here, where at least, I guess now, as many hip doprostheses are implanted as on the orthopedics. Maybe it's possible to catch up once. It would also be important, of course, that if the countries are to do so, you should take an eye on the criteria for the process and the organisation of these waiting lists, that this happens in about a federal unit and that we do not have a patch of quality again. I find the introduction of child victims' groups positive. We wanted to extend this to disabled and also old disabled people, because in some homes and care facilities, it was still occasionally – unfortunately! - Sustained offenses. This has not been fully taken into account, but at least in a committee statement we have kept our desire for accessibility. The changes in the Ethics Commission are consistently positive, but a small Fauxpas happened: There is also a specialist in clinical pharmacology, and which does not really make mention of this specialist I do not want to say unnecessary, but it is not fair at all. With regard to the hip prosthesis register, we already wanted exactly what Mr Oberhauser said, a central point where one can track where an early warning system automatically arises, because one sees how long the durability of an endoprosthesis is. This is at least for quality assurance and is an important step forward. So again: I think all parties work together when it comes to reason, rather than against each other, and if your ministry opened us up more opportunities, I'd be glad.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16499	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16520	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Today we are talking about several small but important steps towards health improvements – I only mention the waiting list. Mrs Oberhauser has already said this: Transparency is good and, interestingly, also leads to the reduction of waiting times. The implant register is also important. I mention an experience: In Germany a primary of a surgical department has told me that there are hips that cost 400 € or 600 €, others cost 1 600 €. If you get 1 100 € in the LKF, in the performance-oriented system, the hospital administration puts pressure on you to buy as cheap a hip as possible. But he said he didn't do this because he believed they were keeping shorter and rusting. – So this so-called implant register is not so insignificant, because then you finally get data to the hand: Is that really true with these rusty hips? – I think something will be on it, although I could not prove it. But I would like to use the few minutes that I have to say in principle. I hear the question every day: When is the health reform finally coming? – This is like the monster of Loch Ness: If you don't think anything more, then you will either come up with the administrative reform or the health reform. – Yesterday there was another statement by Felder in this regard. I could call an endless number of so-called or real experts who say: Do something at last! – Of course you have to do something! German Minister for Health Seehofer said: After the reform is before the reform. – That is, it is a permanent effort, because it is so difficult and because it concerns the issues of life. At the pension I can calculate: When I have paid so much, so and so much comes out at the end of life. – I don’t know about health: Can I get Alzheimer's? Can I get cancer? When do I get him, how do I get him and where do I get him? – These are very difficult questions, and we are actually very good at this. I would like a discussion to be asked: What do we want? Do we want a supply of the quality of a Mercedes with all the extras or a good golf? – I can calm everyone in the house! Every year hundreds of people from OECD countries flee to Austria – and also in Slovakia, or wherever, another care begins. We can relax with Germany and Switzerland. Nevertheless, I say we have to do everything we can to get it for the patients. Now if someone wake me up in the middle of the night and ask: Rasinger, what do you mean after 25 years as a house doctor, what do you think after some time in Parliament, what can you say in four sentences, what would a reform look like?, then I would say: Certainly not the financing from a single source! – You can do that, but I always see only the question who wants to play the main finger at hand. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: You shouldn't say too much at the beginning!]] This is an amputated hand, because only four want to play; I still lack the fifth big player who wants to have the big talk. Rather, it is important to keep the factor hospital small because it is ultimately the most expensive: Everyone who meets you in White is a doctor, so you pay the gardener and everything else. Secondly, Expanding out the outpatient care in all facets correctly, and I doubt whether the proposal of the head of state of Salzburg is the most successful, because that again leads to a trend towards Hospital. Thirdly, The primary medical system, i.e. the system home doctor, builds up or expands – tag house apotheke, where even the senior representatives have now said it is an unfair hardness to often drive 30 or 40 kilometers. Fourth and above all: Prevention. 80 percent – 80 percent! – the disease, has resulted in an American nurse study, in the cardiovascular area are avoidable by four factors: smoking less, no overweight, Mediterranean food and movement. I think if you abolish the doctors, they will still find work somewhere. One of us said: It's about the patient and not about doctors and not about power. It's about us!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16557	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16578	Mr President. Minister! High house! This federal law provides for transparent waiting for special subjects such as ophthalmology, ophthalmology, orthopaedics and surgical orthopaedics and neurosurgery set up lists in anonymized form for operations, provided that the waiting period exceeds four weeks. Why for these special compartments? – It is alleged that there is no such long waiting times in the other subjects. Whether this is going to be accepted is questionable, because I am not aware of any statistical material on it. It may be a mistake or a manko to exclude the private hospitals from this scheme, which can lead to a new form of the two-class medicine, namely by moving the isolated sick from the hospitals to the private hospitals. This would, of course, be a great financial loss for the hospitals. Whether these waiting lists of wisdom are final, I would like to doubt. My opinion is: As long as there are additional insurances, it will be difficult to stop the two-class medicine. It is legitimate for anyone who pays something to get something for it. Sure, you can say he gets a class room, but here already the two-class medicine starts: In a twin room the healing and treatment is certainly better and faster than in a room with eight people. It will then come so far that the health insurance companies instead of two-class rooms because the people will consider this with waiting times, with the insurance either offer a particular doctor or just an earlier operating date. - We have to stop that. I don't think we're going to get under control with this waiting list. Perhaps the additional insurances are reduced by the creation of the waiting lists, because customers no longer see any benefit in closing them. However, my opinion is that we will have to live with the two-class medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16624	Mr Stöger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16645	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If today we ask a patient in the course of patient surveys what he is doing in the Austrian health system, then the topic of waiting times is always addressed. – Many believe and experience that just waiting times also have something to do with justice, that poor people do not get the performance at their appointment. I am very, very glad that the city of Vienna has already tried to remedy it. Based on this experience, it is now possible to prescribe transparent waiting time management in the hospitals as well. It's about justice, it's about public funds being used equally for all people in Austria. We have taken a second big step, namely to treat people who come to a hospital after experiencing anxiety, pressure, violence. Victim protection groups need to be set up, and we have also ensured that they can also be developed together with child protection groups, that every hospital, every health facility in this field becomes more sensitive and above all women also protect accordingly. In line with demographic development, it is quite natural that older people should also be included in the Ethics Commissions. It will be the We have implemented this by involving seniors in the Ethics Commission. For me, as a member of the Federal Government, it is very, very pleased that Transparency International also says that it is good that there is more transparency in the health system at last, that we introduce transparent waiting lists so that we are more transparent here and thus improve the supply of services.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16690	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16712	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Maybe something out of practice, out of my living environment. There are waiting lists for operations that are planned, and they can sometimes be long. I personally experienced that a hip operation had to be waited for almost six months. Of course, it is so that people often decide very late on operations. No one likes to rely on an operating table, and only when the complaints are no longer great and the pain becomes unbearable will an operating date be agreed, and then it will be a certain time in the future. But it is extremely bad for people, when they go to the doctor, to be very sensitive and then to realize that there are others who come more quickly to an operating date that has a certain special position and therefore can perceive these surgery dates much earlier. Then it depends on how one manages it, but of course one assumes that there is a special position here that there is a two-class medicine that must not be so in Austria – and there is dissatisfaction there. That's exactly what this law novel is supposed to counteract. This transparent waiting list, which will be available in the future – also available on the Internet – will ensure, of course, that precisely those operations that occur very often and must be performed in the field of orthopaedics, ophthalmology or neurosurgery can also be presented in such a way that the patient can follow as he sees with his appointment, and then these delays will no longer be able to occur. I am pleased that I have heard today that there may also be cuts in waiting times, because this is certainly in the sense of patients. In any case, I think that this will make our health system a lot fairer and, above all, prevent people who are normal, I say now, from having cash insurance. The countries are entrusted with the implementation, and I think it is important to pay attention here too, as already mentioned today, to ensure that this is kept very uniform, so that the patients also find themselves well equipped in this new system. I am also grateful for the establishment of the victim protection group, which is particularly valid for adults, also in the sense of women, because it is often women who are extradited to domestic violence, who sometimes cannot free themselves from this violence situation and need the best possible support. Mr Health Minister, you have really set in motion regulations that will bring us a bit further in the sense of the patients and also of the Austrian health system. I want you too. chen, especially in the problem of home pharmacies leading doctors, where it is not about the doctors, but about the patients, to ensure that the population living in the countryside must not be worse when it comes to medical and medical care than the patients living in urban space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16763	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16784	Mr President. High house! I would like to highlight a very encouraging innovation today. It's about protecting patients, it's about seniors having a representative in the Ethics Commission in the future. That's a big concern for us. Why? In the meantime, seniors are already the largest group of patients. They live God longer, thanks also to the medical progress. If seniors are also sitting in the Ethics Commission, which checks the studies, this also strengthens the confidence of the older generation in clinical research, and this is very important to us. Second major improvement: the transparent waiting lists for planned operations. Here too, it is quite clear: We don't want two-class medicine! It must not be that well-informed patients are treated faster than others, because some operations bring quality of life; this is about the grey star, disc, hip, knee operations. Mr Minister, we have set out a lot of positive things today – thank you for that! And another appeal to you: Please force the precautions, because precautions are still better than repairing. This is a very important concern for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16822	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We come to the votes. First of all, we are voting on Agenda item 31: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on Hospitals and Hospitals, together with the title and entry into 1200 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this draft, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading, I ask for a sign. – That is just as unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 32: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1349 of the supplements. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 33: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1350 of the supplements. Please accept your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 34. First of all, I would like to put to the vote the request made by the Committee on Health to take note of its report 1351 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1562/A(E). Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on the resolution on the central implant register in the field of hip prosthetics annexed to the Committee's report 1351. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 188.) [[18:58:08]] 35. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1226, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Federal Law on the Supreme Council of Sanity (OSR Act) and amends the Law on the Organisation of the Public Health Service (1352 d.b.) 36. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 185/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on vaccination and inclusion of hepatitis A vaccination in the paediatric vaccination programme (1353 d.b.) 37. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 621/A(E) by Mrs Dr. Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on free FSME vaccination for all children and adolescents (1354 d.b.) 38. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 165/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on midwives advice and care in the framework of the Mother Child Pass (1355/B.) 39. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1539/A(E) by Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, Members of Parliament on the exemption of the necessary vaccinations for fire brigade workers (1356 d.b.) 40. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1158/A(E) by Mr Werner Herbert, Members of Parliament on free tuberculosis and tetanus vaccination for police officers (1357 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e16978	We come to points 35 to 40 of the agenda. The debate is under one. We are going into the debate. The first speech comes from Mr Dr Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17011	Mr President. Minister Stöger! High house! Mr Minister, I too would like to join in with what Mr Greenewald has already done before, and I should like to mention, once again, that the last Committee on Health has had a very positive atmosphere. I should also like to stress on behalf of my group that we hope that this will continue. It must also be recognised that some of our requests are being decided by the government groups here today. On the other hand, we have also spent a few other things. For example, the first draft of the Supreme Council Act, which is now also adopted here, has not been seen so positively by our side. We were afraid that the Council of Sanity would be de-democratic and that you might want to have a big personal influence on it. Fortunately, that is no longer foreseen in this draft. The second, which is not yet on the agenda, but which I would nevertheless like to mention positively, is the history of the discussion on prevention in relation to breast disease. A very positive result could now be achieved after a long period of time. And a third thing we hope to be able to move it in this direction in the future is the story with the problem of vaccination. Vaccinations are part of every good health system and belong to the best of what medicine has to offer. There is no other medical intervention that is as effective and also as cheap as vaccination in the overall picture. And that is why we do not understand that Austria is the world champion in the creation of vaccination plans, but on the other hand it cannot offer really great vaccination plans regarding the prophylaxis. For years now, the argument has been politically and politically based on why vaccination costs are not taken over here, especially in relation to children and young people. You know, Minister, that this is, as I said, the best method of care, and you have now actually been strengthened in your ministry by the fact that you really have high-quality experts here. I would ask you to listen to these experts and to implement these vaccination plans in the future. We have heard and all know that there is currently too little money in the system. In this context, I would like to ask you a question, and I also hope for an answer. They entered into force in 2009. In January 2010, the Hospital Accounting Accounting Regulation was signed. The first figures have already arrived, the second figures for a long time, as I have been told, are now in the ministry. This Regulation lays down that while additional documentation obligations have been imposed on national health funds-financed hospitals, this additional effort is intended to provide information on investment, financing and liquidity. We would very much like to have these figures, because of course they would be necessary for the preparation of health plans. Minister, I expect you to give us an answer. We have also tabled a request, and I hope you will now give us an answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17060	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17081	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of my remarks, I should like to deal with some opposition requests and to refer immediately to my previous speakers in connection with vaccinations and to Mr Belakovich-Jenewein's request for the inclusion of hepatitis A vaccinations in the children's vaccination programme. I think there is no need for a hepatitis vaccination for Austria, so to speak, but if you go abroad, for example to Turkey or to other countries, it is of course very useful to be vaccinated. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] In fact, we in Austria – thank God – are in the happy situation that this disease does not occur with us, but in most cases is a so-called “imported” disease. As far as the other area is concerned, namely FSME vaccinations for all children, I can say that it is already covered by individual health insurance schemes. Grants and we therefore do not agree with this request. In the context of the request and request made by Mrs Ursula Haubner regarding midwives advice and care within the framework of the Mother-Child Pass, I can say on the one hand that there are already many offers in a number of federal states and municipalities. However, I believe that just as we have already discussed this in the Committee, the Mother-Chind Pass is the matter of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family and Youth and therefore the Health Committee is not responsible for it. Finally, let me make a few comments on the government proposal concerning the Supreme Council of Sanity. This body is a very important advisory body of the Minister of Health. The current legal basis comes from 1870, so if I can say so so salopp, I have been on the bubbling for a few years, and therefore I am very glad that this very old matter is being changed, although it has happily “functioned”. Nevertheless, it is necessary to put this Supreme Council of Sanity on new legs now. This bill regulates membership, regulates the form of election of the President/President and the Vice-President, and regulates the handling of any conflicts of interest that may arise. Let me conclude by saying: I am particularly pleased that there will be a mandatory percentage of women of at least 40 percent. This is gratifying, that is very good, because women have a lot to say – and not only – in health. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17130	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17152	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! We too agree with this law as the Supreme Council of Sanity. This novice no longer leaves it to the Minister, whether he employs or not a Supreme Council of Sanity, but it imposes it on him. I think that's good. Unfortunately, many savings and personnel reduction in the resort – many times the resort was also very defensive compared to populist savings pressure – have to some Loss of competence, partly offset by outsourcing, partly through the Supreme Council of Sanity. But here you have many freedoms. You can nominate who you want. It is only a woman's quota. You don't even have to nominate doctors, which in principle I think is quite right. However, this depends very much on the Minister or the Minister. A shaman could also call five shamans or Philippine miracle healers in this council. There would, of course, be transparency. We already have some amendments as proposals, but I assume that this is only possible for the next novel, because the government does not agree with us as quickly as possible. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The vaccination applications were not all bad, I have to say. The Ministry also seems to have a very restrictive attitude by means of savings measures. There is no doubt that in the case of pneumococcal vaccination, the risk groups in infants are too narrow, so that there are no large sections of the population affected by vaccination and even older people at risk of being infected by their grandchildren. I hope that a little more movement will come into play – perhaps also by a newly appointed Supreme Council of Sanity and its departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17239	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17301	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17323	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This can be said by the Supreme Council of Sanity, and yet it is put on new feet, and it has a new role to play, because the commitment of the Supreme Council of Sanity to be set up as a mandatory Commission will also take into account its special importance. For at least 140 years, this body has been supporting the responsible health policymakers and providing its expertise. In particular, he has left behind his traces in the area of vaccination programmes. It is the task of the Council of Sanity to deliver recommendations for action at the highest scientific level in all health policy and health ministers. Of course, developments in society must also be included in these plans. Therefore, the Council of Sanity must be occupied with professionals from all fields of health policy. These are currently professionals from medicine and science, representatives of the medical and pharmacy chambers and from the nursing sector. The third largest group of health care, the members of the higher medical and technical service, with at least 20 000 professionals, is currently not in the Supreme Council of Sanity. But especially with regard to the increasingly important fields of prevention, prevention and health promotion, the expertise of this professional group should not be forgotten. I know that the current Commission's appointment will go by 2013, but you are now seeking to include MTD Australia in the context of a comprehensive activity of the Supreme Council of Sanity in the new appointment. One word on women's share: I find it very gratifying that the issue of gender-based occupation is obviously already so state of the art in such bodies, that it is increasingly rare to have a great pressure to achieve this goal. I would like to thank you, Mr Minister, for continuing with a high proportion of women under the predecessor Maria Rauch-Kallat, who had 39 members and 20 women at the time, and helping to break through the glass ceiling in these areas. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17371	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Spadiut. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17392	Mr President. Minister! High house! Voluntary fire brigades work on a daily basis, run a daily risk of fires, accidents, disasters, disasters with dangerous substances, free of charge and to exhaustion. Voluntary fire brigades are essential for our society and bring savings in billions to the communities, countries and the federal government. So I see it as our duty to create the best conditions for the fire brigades, and among these conditions are vaccinations, such as against hepatitis A and B, FSME and Tetanus for members of the volunteer fire brigade in significant risk exposure. A request to that effect was rejected in the Committee by the EIA, with the argument that this would be too expensive. – I would like to say to the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Vaccines are preventive measures, and you know, 1 € in prevention invests in spare 3 € in treatment. That is why I cannot let this argument apply. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The SPÖ's argument was that the countries and municipalities should pay. – This is a simple indication, only: Most countries and communities are themselves pleaded. That's why it won't be. The Greens were not worthy of any discussion at all, they have uncommentedly rejected. I'd like to read you a letter from a fire brigade commander. He writes: Dear comrade, thank you for your efforts, but unfortunately it is as always that really important things fail at the cost. We will raise the money for these costs for our team from the comrade's fund. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen of red, green and black, that is embarrassing!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17444	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17465	Mr President. High house! We have introduced a new law whose predecessors are 140 years old. The language of this law is no longer in our time. I have tried to renew the Supreme Council of Sanity as a leading body to advise the Minister of Health. What are the essential elements? – The essential elements are that we can appoint experts, name them again, that a minimum proportion of women of 40 percent is also written in the law. I also make it clear that the current Supreme Council of Sanity consists of 32 persons, 16 of whom are male and 16 are female. All are experts in health care at the highest level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can correct: I have also included a person from the area of raised care services as a member of the Supreme Council of Sanity; a person who is active in a large institution such as the Red Cross and who has a lot of experience with regard to the interface also to the care of the home, who brings care overall. It is also important to me – and I am very glad that it is also publicly recognised that transparency is important, that we also call for conflicts of interest to be presented and communicated in writing to the President and the Minister. I can still answer Mr Karlsböck's question: We made this regulation in 2009. We get the first data, enter it, and check them for their plausibility. We'll do that. I say to everyone: I presented the hospital compass to the public today. You can read relevant data on hospitals on the Internet. Under www.spitalskompass.at, important data from hospitals are available to the public. It is also a question of starting a transparency initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17526	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Herbert is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17548	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Our police officers do excellent work, I have already noted this on several occasions, even though this federal government often strikes them – not to say, unreasonable – working conditions. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] However, they are increasingly threatened not only by personal attacks in carrying out their service in their health, but also by ever-increasing infectious diseases. Two particularly widespread and dangerous infectious diseases are tuberculosis on the one hand and Tetanus on the other. In this context, I am thinking, in particular, of carrying out the tasks in the drug and in the Arrest area, but also – Mrs Csörgits has found this right, especially hepatitis is an imported disease – the execution of police activities in the field of foreign and asylum. I think we should do everything we can to create the appropriate framework conditions for our police to carry out their service tasks, in which they often have to consciously deal with dangerous situations and also their lives to risk their physical integrity, so that they can be sure that these hazards are as low as possible, and also that the Republic of Austria, its employer, is concerned about their health. That is why I can invite you to support this request for freedom. I know that there have been great reservations in the Committee on this matter, from SPÖ, ÖVP, but also from the Greens, but I can nevertheless invite you to show this appreciation to our executives and to support their health, which they are putting at risk for all of us in the exercise of the service. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17593	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 35: The draft law concerning the Federal Law establishing the Federal Law on the Supreme Council of Sanity (OSR Act) and amending the Law on the Organisation of the Public Health Service in 1226 of the Supplements. Mr Greenewald, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Members Dr. Grünewald, colleagues who refer to Rule 1(3), (4), (6) and (7). Whoever joins these amendments, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I would like to ask those Members of the House who have given their approval for a sign on this point. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 36: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1353 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 37: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1354 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 38: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1355 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 39: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1356 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 40: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1357 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. [[19:23:19]] 41. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1474/A by Dr Sabine Oberhauser, MAS, Dr Erwin Rasinger, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Pharmacy Chamber Law 2001 (1358, B.B.) 42. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1475/A by Dr Sabine Oberhauser, MAS, Dr. Erwin Rasinger, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Law on the Import of Medicines in 2010 (1359 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17744	We now come to points 41 and 42 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I would draw attention to the fact that only three speakers have spoken on these agenda items, so that we will soon be back to the vote. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17778	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The two existing legislations can be summarized under the terms “administrative simplification” and “democracy”. The amendment of the Pharmacy Chamber Act brings both aspects to light. Administrative simplification in the provision of temporary services to pharmacists from the EU area: So far, it has required some sort of bureaucratic effort that has become possible. The transfer of the notifiers to the Pharmacovigilance Chamber, which is of course also responsible from the professional side, will make this easier and without much effort possible and will also comply with the EU Services Directive. The topic of “democracy” is the content of the amendment to the election of representation to the pharmacy chamber. Of course, you might ask: What to do with a vote if there is only one vote?, but assume that everyone agrees to the electoral proposal, just because there is only one, would be quite blue-eyed. The possibility of saying no must be given, and this amendment will also achieve it. For example, this works very well with the dentist's chamber. The amendment of the legislation on the import of medicinal products also concerns simplification, namely the possibility of importing blood canneds, even if the donor was replaced by the actual effort. On such an important issue as safety in the provision of blood canneds, which may eventually and finally be life-saving, the areas of safety and quality of the blood canned should be in a balanced relationship on the one hand and facilitate the provision on the other. The change of law makes this possible. In this context, I would like to thank you very warmly and officially for the Red Cross, which most of its blood donations are free of charge in Austria. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17815	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17836	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We too will agree to these two legislative proposals. The amendment of the Pharmacy Chamber Act is necessary because it is now extremely complicated for pharmacists who come from the EU to settle in Austria. This is a huge administrative burden. In this respect, it makes sense, even if the collection of the laws was a bit complicated now, the final result is a satisfactory one. The second change – that has already been said by my previous speaker – leads to democratization and makes sense. In any case, we do not want to see only a single political group taking part in chamber elections. Such a thing is quite undemocratic and therefore rejected. We will also agree with the second request, the amendment of the import legislation on medicinal products. Of course, we agree. The blood is the main component of life, and therefore blood products, blood canned are to be safely transported. This law should therefore be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17873	The next and last item on the agenda is the speech by Mr Dr Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17894	Mr President. Minister! The amendment of the Pharmacy Chamber Act provides for the proposed reporting procedure for pharmacists who want to act temporarily and occasionally as providers of services in Austria to assign to the Austrian Pharmacy Chamber as a task in the transferred field of activity. We shall vote in favour of this amendment. The purpose of the amendment to the legislation on the import of medicinal products is to prohibit trade in blood canneds. Only minor recognitions such as chocolate and refreshments as well as the reimbursement of the costs of arrival and departure associated with a donation are allowed. We shall also vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e17924	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 41: Bill concerning a Federal Act amending the Pharmacy Chamber Act, including title and receipt in 1358 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to agree to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – That too is unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on agenda item 42: Draft Federal Act amending the 2010 Act on the import of medicinal products, together with the title and receipt in 1359 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That too is unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:30:00]] 43. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1227, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Health and Nutritional Safety Act (1360 d.b.) 44. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1570/A(E) by Mr Peter Haubner, on behalf of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Johann Maier, Dr. Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, Dr. Wolfgang Spadiut, colleagues on reform and restructuring of controls along the food chain (1361 d.b.) 45. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1537/A(E) by Mrs Bernhard Themessl, colleagues on reform of food control and financial security of the AGES by the Federal Government (1362 d.b.) 46. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1060/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek, colleagues in relation to traffic lights marking for foodstuffs (1363 d.b.) 47. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 363/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on a consistent designation of origin for foodstuffs (1364 d.b.) 48. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1394/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on legal protection for the terms ‘vegetarian’ and ‘Vegan’ (1365, e.g.) 49. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1322/A(E) by Mr Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, colleagues on the approval of Stevia (1366 d.B.) 50. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 623/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues with regard to the approval of Stevia (1367 d.b.) 51. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 52. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1209/A(E) by Mr Mag. Birgit Treasure, colleagues and colleagues concerning the prohibition of bisphenol A in articles of use for children from 0 to 3 years (1369 d.a.) 53. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1396/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on preventing the increase in the maximum levels of nitrate in foodstuffs (1370 d.b.) 54. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment 1255/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in relation to pesticides in foodstuffs (1371, e.g.) 55. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 1499/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on the protection of the population from the radioactive load of food (1372 d.b.) 56. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 927/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on the promotion of a climate-friendly lifestyle (1373 d.b.) 57. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1535/A(E) by Mrs Dr Andreas Karlsböck, colleagues on nanosilver – ensure antimicrobial efficacy (1374 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18188	We come to items 43 to 57 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has been reported on the floor. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18215	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, that's a lot of applications, mainly opposition requests we're negotiating now. At the outset, I would like to say that I was very positive about how constructively the last Health Committee worked together. It has also been noted from the members of the Government parties that they really agree with the individual requests. In the case of the other Member States, the Commission Even the reasons for the rejections were in most cases very coherent. I am particularly pleased – and I would like to stress this now – that the request for a ban on bisphenol A in baby bottles has been accepted. I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for his commitment to this in the EU and for the fact that with 1. ==References====External links== Nevertheless, I would like to express my special personal concern and joy at it, after all, I am the mother of a baby who also drinks from bottles. That is why this is a great success not only for the entire population, but also for me personally. I am also very pleased that my colleague Andreas Karlsböck's request is accepted, which is that nanosilver should no longer be inside or that it should be handled very carefully in order simply to obtain the effectiveness of medicine. This is certainly a very important and very good step, and I am very pleased that the government parties too have been able to give their approval to this request. Mr Spadiut's request to allow Stevia as a food supplement will, of course, also be accepted, although I must say that a small drops of wormwood remain, as my colleague Norbert Hofer's request to allow Stevia as a food is unfortunately rejected, especially on the grounds that it is only authorised as a food supplement in the EU. I'm sorry about that. I think Austria could have taken on a pioneering role here, as in the case of various other applications, especially requests made by Mr Pirklhuber, for example to limit the nitrate value in food. Furthermore, these applications include, on the one hand, the Federal Law, but also a common application on the subject of increasing the safety of food control. I am very pleased that this is at last a step forward and that it really continues in the right direction. However, we can still do more, as shown by my colleague Themessl's request. Unfortunately, this is not accepted, but I am glad that we are going in the right direction. The consistent designation of origin of food is a concern whose implementation we have long called for. We will therefore also support the Greens' request in this direction. A request from Mr Pirklhuber, whom we will of course also support, but which I would also like to highlight a little critically, concerns the promotion of the climate-friendly diet. A climate-friendly diet is also not for us to market biobananas from Costa Rica in Austria. I think there's a lot inside here, because the apples from Austria prefer me, even if they're from conventional cultivation, because I think: “Climate-cleaning” must also mean turning to regional food. That is why we will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal, because of course we have the intention, but we will also agree with Mr Pirklhuber's other proposals, which is now a little towards the Greens. My colleague Norbert Hofer's request for a ban on pesticides in foodstuffs was not accepted by the Committee, on the grounds that it is only possible to prohibit the use of pesticides. I've already passed this on to him, and you can be assured: We will do this, and we hope that the Committee on Agriculture will also develop a similar constructive cooperation as it started in the last Committee on Health. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18272	Mr Spindelberger is next spoken. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18294	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to address a question that is becoming more and more important to all of us, namely: How can we improve our food controls? The answer to this question is certainly not a simple one, because although we in Austria – which is to be said quite openly – have a system of control that is not functioning properly in principle, we must admit that this would not only be more efficient due to the ever-increasing global flow of goods and the additional EU targets in this context. Moreover, we – and this is once again a typical Austrian problem – have a confusion of responsibilities, which is why a rapid integration of the most diverse structures appears not only to be useful, but as urgently recommended! With us, the rights often do not know what the left hand is doing, because otherwise, in the field of indirect federal administration, not as many construction sites as we find them could open up. I would like to compare this once again: ==References== ==References====External links== Working century, we all do – it's about our own health! – in view, certainly not good. If we want to be serious about ensuring efficient, transparent, risk-based and above all nationally uniform food control, taking into account the entire food chain, we need almost a power act! A power act because we have to bring about constitutional changes in order to bring together the most diverse administrative units at federal and national level. Ladies and gentlemen! To ensure food safety is more than just to control manufacturers and trade. There are many areas, such as feed safety, which also play a very important role here. If in this context I allow the food scandals of recent years or decades of revue to happen – like dioxin, BSE, which is everyone else’s term – then it turns out that most of the feed deficits were due to it. But these fall, you have to say, in the field of the Ministry of Agriculture. The question for me is whether this area is adequately controlled – apparently not, because the last dioxin scandal is just a few months ago! Or do we think about the term Glykol? That too was not a classic food scandal. The Ministry of Agriculture is also responsible for wine control – not surprisingly. For example, there are no application controls in the pesticides at all! Ladies and gentlemen, if only the answer to a request from Jacky Maier, 8304/AB, would you have to laugh at it if it wasn't so sad, because the Minister of Health's response to the results of the checks on pesticides or other pollutants by the food supervisory body was as follows: ‘In 2009 and 2010, no claims were made as ‘health damage’ or ‘false’ or ‘not in accordance with food law’. That's where I thought for myself: That's a great, tangible result. – But we need to know that the Ministry of Health is only responsible for grapes and grape juice, but not for wine controls! Then I looked at how many wine samples were drawn on sulphuric acid or pesticides in the previous year. That's where I have to say, say and write zero! Not once were our wine farmers in Austria subject to official control in the previous year. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It really can't be! It seems that those responsible from the scandals of the past have still not learned anything. [[Abg. Steibl: Mr. colleague, do you just drink mineral water?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That is why I am glad that we are at least a little moved with this request and that the Federal Government is being asked to develop a draft law on the reorganisation of controls along the entire food chain, with the aim of presenting the necessary changes by the end of the legislative period. I would like it to succeed by the end of next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18345	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18367	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Minister! 16 seconds per agenda item – 15 TOPS we have to negotiate in one! Therefore, I would like to say critically that, if we are setting up agendas, we can conclude this in the future a little bit, but 15 points cannot really be dealt with objectively. Every speaker, every speaker who comes out: It is, so to speak, a staccato of aspects that are attracted here – rightly and unfortunately, I say. [[Abg. Steibl:... already handled in committee!]] That's a shame! I'd like to say that in the first place. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So: I will keep it very short and then focus on the fundamental issue of financing food control and food policy in Austria. Therefore, very briefly: It's clear where we're going to vote. We will agree to this amendment to the Health and Food Safety Act. This is about uniform control of the drug packaging process, the repackaging process, the so-called list. We can agree. We will also vote in favour of some of the requests made by our colleagues. I mention here, for example, the authorisation of a sweetener, Stevia rebaudiana; a request from Mr Spadiut. Stevia rebaudiana is a plant that is in itself very good and already tested, which is used in other countries such as Japan and the USA. Mr Hofer calls for authorisation as a food; we will also support this with Stevia rebaudiana. But now to what Mr Spindelberger meant, the long chain, the so-called reform proposal: ‘Reform and restructuring of controls along the food chain’. Mr Spindelberger, we will not agree to this. I didn't answer the request, and why? – Because in this proposal there is no need for the entire system to be priced as binding, so to speak, as a prerequisite for this reform process. All of us in this House know that the Agency for Health and Food Safety and the Federal Offices located there are currently no guarantees of funding. Mr Federal Minister, this is the great construction site that exists, and it will not be enough if we analyze the food chain. I could now discuss this question for 10 minutes; I am saving myself that we will certainly do it more often in the Committee. But I am personally in favour of funding, and our group believes that the Federal Minister's proposals are quite interesting, because, of course, the 'polluter pays' principle also requires companies involved in the whole of food production and in the field of in-store control. Let me give you an example. It would be useful and useful to use a pesticides levy for food control because pesticides simply cause problems. They need to be analyzed. The risk that maximum values are exceeded here is a fact. So why not bring the pesticides industry, the chemical industry here with a contribution to the financing of the AGES into the boat?- Oh, my God! I think we need to deepen this discussion, because these are the principles: The principle of 'polluter pays', including the question of liability in the event of damage. Again and again, when scandals occur, we have this discussion to hold. That is also the reason why we do not fully agree with the FPÖ proposal concerning AGES – 100 percent public funding, a good proposal, no question. We believe that it makes sense to bring the causers into the boat, so to speak. If the government parties reject this, namely the FPÖ proposal, they will indirectly agree to a company-related tax! I take this seriously, also from the ÖVP. In the next discussions – when it comes to this – I expect you to make concrete and constructive proposals in this direction too. You see, 4 minutes are too short! All requests have been discussed in the committee, some good opposition requests – and I welcome this – have been supported for the first time by the government groups. That is, I believe, a good way to the future, that we are trying to discuss applications seriously, to develop them, if possible, on five-party applications, thus ensuring further development of the Austrian food control system and also a contribution to food safety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18409	Mr Pirklhuber, I would like to say, however, that the political groups themselves are voluntarily restricting speaking times. You have to make that up internally, please. The next speaker was Mr Haubner. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18437	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Spindelberger, briefly to you: The quality of Austrian wine is known worldwide and is appreciated everywhere! We Austrians can be proud that we produce so wonderful wines in this country. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the FPÖ and the Agg. May. Gaßner.]] I think it should already be known that the wine is one of the most tested foods. I do not think it is necessary for us to talk about our excellent wine. That is why, in this respect, a very clear correcting of these statements! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But of course it is that we are clearly saying about food safety and food control. For decades, however, we have had a control system with a side-by-side structure here. A wealth of EU standards and legislation – a trend that is strongly increasing – also leads to the fact that the Austrian food control system has become increasingly inefficient and expensive in recent years. It has now been tried to overcome this problem of enhancing food control to entrepreneurs active in the food-producing sectors. I think that is the wrong way, because we cannot simply overturn costs on companies if nothing changes in the structure, because of course this does not improve the system in any direction. We must therefore look at the fact that we are adapting this whole system to EU law and to European food control in accordance with the inclusive principle of “From field to plate”. The structures of the past that have existed are certainly not suitable for us to continue working on these production methods in the future. We have new technologies, and we have global commodity flows. Under the principle of mutual recognition of controls and quality assurance systems, a new approach to food control needs to be found here. A merger – and this has already been mentioned today – with the necessary efficiency improvements, this whole structure is very important and correct. We must succeed in developing a new structure in this period – and we have written to the Minister about the time period in this motion for a resolution – by May 2012 at the same time so that we can develop it with 1. January 2015 can also be implemented accordingly. It is therefore intended that all the synergies in the field of controls along this food chain, in cooperation with the AGES and all the bodies involved, as well as the companies which have so far not sufficiently exploited, will in any case be realized instead of introducing a new burden on the economy and, accordingly, of course, also on agriculture. Of course, we can also see many double-tracks in this area if, on the one hand, the federal government and on the other, the federal states take over tasks. Here there are many double-tracks, and it is certainly useful if we bring the entire system to a level and see that this is done by one level. The working group, composed of experts from the Ministries – the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Life – and of course also representatives from the countries, also serves this purpose. They should see that they are preparing a proposal by May 2012. Of course, it is important to us that this system – when it comes to 1. January 2015 then – implemented in such a way that the necessary measures are taken in such a way that no additional burden – I can only stress it once again: no additional financial burden – on the economy and agriculture, but that there are very clear directives that the costs for this food control are also taken over by the state as a sovereign task. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore planned that with this new contribution to health care, or with this new construction of the AGES, we will not burden more than 100 000 businesses. If one looked at the last proposal in the budget, then companies would have paid € 40.6 million. We now have this burden first and foremost in mind. the entrepreneur is rejected. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is an important and correct step. So now it is our task – and I am very pleased that we have here a four-party proposal that makes it possible – that we create a reorganisation concept for efficient, transparent, risk-based and nationally uniform food control. It is a so-called small administrative reform, and so I am optimistic that by May 2012 we will also be able to deal with an appropriate solution to this reorganisation of food control from the field to the plate if we deal with this issue together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18521	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18542	High house! Stevia leaves have been used by the people of Paraguay for millenniums for the preparation of food and drinks. Stevia has three hundred times the sweetness of sugar and is also used as a medicinal plant. Stevia is low blood pressure, lowering blood sugar, antimicrobial, vascular, and is suitable for diabetics because it does not increase blood sugar levels. Furthermore, it has plaque binding effect, that is, one can use it preventively against caries. The benefits for the prevention of overweight and civil disease are obvious. Stevia-Tabs were so far only available as a raw material for dental diagnostics in Austrian trade. However, this changes with today's day because my request was unanimously approved by the Committee. [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] Our farsighted view is that the EU's Standing Committee made a broadcast on Wednesday in which it recommends the approval of highly pure Stevia. Today's vote will take another important step towards prevention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18579	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18600	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. If you decide today on the Health and Food Safety Act, you will adopt a small administrative reform. It has been successful to agree with the countries that the experts of the AGES are working together to control the reblistering in the pharmacies, and that experts who can provide expertise are also used by the district authorities. This is an important step and increases the quality of control – and the issue of health and nutrition control. I would like to express my express thanks to those who support the motion for a resolution on re-examination of control from field to plate. That is where we need the right attention, and it is also about doing the right thing for our people with countries and district authorities in order to ensure that we can have good food quality in the future in Austria. I say this very, very clearly, because it is a great concern to me that we protect and financially strengthen the AGES in Austria, and with all these contributions we can do so. I have tried very hard in the framework of the Federal Financial Framework Act to be active here and to enforce myself. With this decision today, we strengthen the position – also for better quality and above all for controlled quality for our consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18635	I call Mr Hechtl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18657	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would just like to address three points in this agenda block. As mentioned by Mr Spadiut, we are dealing with Stevia rebaudiana, this plant, which has a really large sugar content and is already very successful in use in other countries. This request concerns the health care minister to ensure that the authorisation of sweeteners from this plant is now made possible. Not least because of this, and also because of the success of the use of this plant, EU-wide authorisation as a sweetener or additive is imminent. As already in the Committee, we will, of course, give our assent here. On request 806/A(E) by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, who called for the review of the baby bottles on the ingredient Bisphenol A to be carried out by all product suppliers and asked the Federal Minister to work to ensure that this active substance is no longer present in the baby bottles at European level: This issue is a very, very important issue for us. Healthy toys – especially for babies – and healthy baby articles are an important concern. Not least – and you have already mentioned this – the EU-wide ban on bisphenol A in baby bottles has been implemented on intensive and reinforced, persistent pressure from Austria, and it is already with 1. ==References== This is a success of our health policy, our Austrian health policy. The amendment 1535/A(E) by Mr Karlsböck, which calls for measures by the Federal Government to ensure the effectiveness of nanosilver and its importance in the medical field, is also in line. This is a concern which is already part of the Nano Action Plan, in which it is defined. The Federal Minister has convened a working group in which this matter is specifically worked out and processed according to the responsibilities. The different cross-sectional matrices show how necessary this is. I believe that the coordination of the Nano-Information Platform by the Federal Minister for Health ensures sufficient transparency of information, and we also welcome this request very positively. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The most important good of man – his health, a health care that everyone and everyone, regardless of his or her financial means, must and must take advantage of – is an urgent concern for us, for which we always stand. I think with our Minister of Health Alois Stöger we have a responsible person at the head of the health care system in Austria, who advocates a comprehensive, quality-oriented and forward-looking health policy in Austria. Estimated Minister of State! You have already mentioned a number of topics here, such as the AGES financing, which shows how important the food chain is to you, how important to you is health or healthy diet. I'd like to wish you all the best. Good luck with the upcoming health reforms! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18708	Next, Mr Vock. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18729	My President! Minister! High house! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank myself. At the last meeting of the Committee on Health, there was a completely new political style. Requests for the opposition were not simply postponed, rejected or falsified by making an amendment, no: The opposition applications were simply accepted as they are – with the applicant. It's a whole new style. The author is not hidden, but one can now say: As an opposition, we have tabled a request that will be accepted. Here I would like to thank the two responsible speakers, the relevant specialist speakers – the colleague Dr. Oberhauser and colleague Dr. Rasinger – who are obviously responsible for this new style. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, a request from Mr Themessl on the reform of food control and financial security of the AGES was not taken into account by the federal government. The AGES carries out a high-level task here, and it is now presented in other areas, for example in the area of the Financial Office: The Chief Financial Officer will come and say it's all right, but please pay a fee for the audit. Or: You're going to a plan square. You have behaved properly as a driver, but you pay an additional fee for any additional check that comes in to the policeman. That is, if you ask if you have the panning triangle, you pay a fee even though you have it; if you ask if you have the warning vest, you pay a fee for the exam, even if you have it. Similar to radar control: It is not the one that has been driven too fast, but it will also collect a fee from the one that has been checked with the laser gun. That is to say, the state has to carry out high-end tasks. Of course, in the black sheep who violate the rules, you can impose the penalties in such a way that they also cover the controls – you can think of them – but you cannot punish those who behave properly. In the field of consumer protection, we also have the discussion over and over again on how to better identify food. More and more information is required. Above all, I say that the host, when serving a Wiener Schnitzel, has to add a book with all its origins – all in it and so on – in order to carry out this very well to the consumer. I believe that Mr Deimek's request, which provides for labelling of foodstuffs by means of traffic lights, would be a simplification for consumers. This happens partly on a voluntary basis, so it is not quite impossible. Unfortunately, there is also a serious background to Mr Hofer's request concerning the pesticides ban in foodstuffs. It has been found that this canning In the case of medicinal products as well as colouring and additives, children's problems of concentration are to blame. That is, attention deficit and hyperactivity syndromes are caused by these pesticides. But the government parties – and I would like to stress this once again – have achieved a huge step towards living parliamentaryism at the last meeting of the Health Committee. I hope that this new style will also be adopted in other committees.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18800	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Maij-Weggen. 3 minutes speaking - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18821	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My previous speaker spoke about the new style. I do not think it is a new style, but it has so far been the style of the government parties to always enter into the honest dialogue with the opposition parties, but it has often been the different views of the reason that we have not been able to accept the opposition parties' requests. If these opposition requests, such as Mr Spadiut's request, are fully related to our positions in the content, we would like to go further. You will see, that can be the way in the future after long conversations, as ultimately it is important what is good for people. And if the majority chooses to do so, we will be able to enforce such five-party proposals several times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Before I come to the request that I have prepared, namely to Stevia, I would like to give an opinion on what Mr Spindelberger has referred to. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] - Please? [[Abg. May. Worm: No, I just watched!]] As far as the samples or investigations concerning wine are concerned, it is ultimately that way – and I say that as a Burgenländer already with great passion, because our federal state and our farmers have suffered particularly from the wine scandal at that time, Mr. Spindelberger; it is now 25 years ago that the wine scandal has been revealed – that the right and important consequences have been drawn so that what happened back then never happen again. I believe that these decisions, which were made at the time, were the right ones and led to the fact that not only the Austrian wine, but also Austrian wine as a whole, is recognized not only in our own country, but also in the world, because it has the highest quality, because it offers the highest security in terms of food wine, because it creates enjoyment and makes a lot of joy and fun. Therefore, we should not start now, so to speak, to present it a little so that maybe something is or could be something. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] There's not been enough research. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have good wine. Our farmers stand for excellent quality. I don't have one right now, but I'll give you a good Burgenlander afterwards, and you'll see he's good, and you'll drink him with great pleasure. Now perhaps a comment on what has been said about Stevia and what has now led to the great joy of the BZÖ that this five-party application has been submitted. It is certainly true that Stevia, as a sweetener, can be an important plant – especially for the around 500 000 diabetics who exist in Austria – and hopefully will also be. You know – it was mentioned by you earlier – that Stevia is three hundred times sweeter than beet sugar, that the indigenous population in Paraguay and Brazil already has it in use for centuries and, accordingly, there is great success. If we now have in common with France, so to speak, that Stevia is allowed as a sweetener with us, I am very, very glad that this request has been tabled by you, which is an example of the fact that good applications, which have, so to speak, no political background, can also be taken together accordingly. [[Abg. Petzner: Now you'll get out of the text! Now the text goes out soon!]] . No, no, my colleague, the text does not go out because it is a personal concern to me. [[Call the SPÖ: It sounds like this!]] I am a diabetic myself, and you can still believe that this is a very, very serious concern and we've been waiting for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not a matter of health or concern, and I therefore thank all those who will agree to this request, and you, Mr Spadiut, that you have addressed this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18917	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e18938	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Mr Rosenkranz, you are perfectly sure that I, as a winegrower, would of course also like to deal with the issue of wine. Mr Spindelberger, it would be very easy for me to react emotionally to what you have said here. But I think it was exactly the events that hit us hard in the wine industry in 1985 – a scandal that we never needed. Many farms have suffered, and some regions still suffer from what we can see when we look at the size of the land and the structures. But I think it is very important that we do not assume in this discussion whether we are good or bad Austrians, if we praise or not praise our products, and I do not want to evaluate that either. I believe that you have seen a reply to a parliamentary request as insufficient and that you have commented. That remains your decision, that is a matter between you, in the form of your right to interact, and the ministry. However, the wine industry and the Austrian wine must not be a bad one. I could now keep a nice advertising speech on the wine, but would like to clarify some data: Of the 23 000 wine farmers in Austria, about 80 percent are part of the ÖPUL programme of integrated production, which operates a particularly sustainable economy. In the case of these plants, syringe recording, diarys must be carried out when what is being sprayed, and sprayers must also be monitored every two years on an official test stand. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is mandatory!]] - Yes, compulsory. I think that is a very high safety value that we have for our products. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] We have – further in the chain – the obligation to carry a cellar book, where precise and penable is listed, what is done with the must and from which grape are which grapes. You can see 100 percent of the wine when it comes to the bottle. I think that if you have some knowledge of the wine-growing and the vinification, you know that the grape must need to ferment and eventually put down heavy metals when fermenting, by deposition of yeasts in the tank, even if there is still. But I can guarantee you that no Austrian winegrower will inject too much – this will also become clear to you if you look at the price lists of the spray companies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is about drawing the conclusions. 25 years ago, we have spoken badly of our wine, today the wine administration and the winery inspectors of Austria are on their way internationally to spread our system around the world. You have to imagine a country like Australia compared to Austria. Austria has around 46 000 hectares with 6,000 bottle filling plants. Australia has 160 000 hectares of 2,000 plants that fill the bottles, and you can already see from the structure that control is not possible there. Australia has no wine-growing law. Josef Pleil, President of the Austrian Wine Association, and Mr. Hofrat Dr. Eder of the Klosterneuburg Winery School, I would like to mention at this point, because these two gentlemen are on the road internationally within the framework of the OIV, the international Wine Association, to present internationally what we have in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... Wine debate?- Oh, my God!]] They're very popular professionals. But now let me come briefly to the EU Food Labelling. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a lot of requests on food labelling here, and the trilogue between the European Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission has reached a compromise, namely to rework the food label to the Consumer Information Regulation. In the case of labelling, the nutritional marking, the allergen marking, the protection of deception and, above all, the designation of origin are very much processed. We know that in Europe we have one of the strongest internal markets, especially in the food market. But we need not only to secure food, but also production needs framework conditions. We produce, especially in agriculture, on EU standards, but unfortunately God needs to note that the Austrian farmers are often second-class Europeans through various production measures, controls, et cetera. We have a lot more stringent controls, regulations on animal welfare and so on. [[Abg. Silhavy: The speaking time has been over for a long time!]] Mr Minister, I would like to mention here the plans of your cabinet to tighten up the rules on attitudes in breeding sows. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If these tightenings come, then 40 to 50 percent of the farms must be locked. That's political arbitrariness. They play with the existence of the local businesses, but also with thousands of jobs. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: This is the Animal Protection Act!]] I wonder where the Chamber of Labour is when it comes to securing jobs in rural areas. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] The pig sector does not require any special arrangements; it simply demands its right. Dear ladies and gentlemen, if someone here believes that he can play with the existences of our peasant families, with their farms and with the structure of our small-structured, sustainable Austrian agriculture, then he has to expect the vehement resistance of the Austrian peasantry! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No item on the agenda!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They are Federal Ministers for All Austrians and thus also for Farmers. Pay the pig industry the respect it deserves, because farmers are not beggars. The whole industry does not ask, it calls for the production methods not to deteriorate. The market is difficult enough anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19080	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 43: Draft Federal Act amending the Health and Food Safety Act, including the title and receipt in 1360 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That too is unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 44: Proposal from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to adopt the resolution on reform and restructuring of controls along the food chain annexed to the Committee's report 1361. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 189.) We shall also vote on agenda item 45: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1362 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 46: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1363 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 47: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1364 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 48: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1365 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 49: Proposal from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to the Committee report 1366 to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection concerning the approval of Stevia. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 190.) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 50: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1367 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 51: Proposal from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to the Committee report 1368 to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. (E 191.) [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 52: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1369 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on agenda item 53: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1370 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 54: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1371 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 55: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1372 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 56: The Committee on Health's request to take note of its report in 1373 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 57: Proposal from the Health Committee to adopt the resolution on nanosilver – antimicrobial efficacy attached to the Committee's report in 1374. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 192.) [[20:23:23]] 58. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1432/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, Members of Parliament, on the improvement of outpatient psychotherapist care (1375, e.g.) 59. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1433/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, Members of Parliament on the establishment of national health objectives involving social determinants (1376, d.e.c.) 60. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1561/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues on the establishment of a national suicide prevention programme (1377 d.a.) 61. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1582/A(E) by Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, colleagues on the inclusion of clinical-psychological treatment in the ASVG (1378 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19338	We now come to points 58 to 61 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19365	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After the trip to the Committee on Agriculture, we return to health care. I would like to begin with Mr Greenewald's request for a national suicide prevention programme. I am very glad that the government parties will also give their approval to this request and will therefore be accepted. I think it's a very serious issue, and we're not particularly good in Austria: In Austria, there are an average of 17 suicides in 100 000 inhabitants. That's not quite essential. In the case of risk factors, in addition to older age, gender, for example, plays a role, but it is mainly mental illness, disability, addiction diseases such as alcoholism or drug addiction, as well as unemployment. We see a clear east-west gap in Austria. I think that if you create such a program, you would have to include all these factors, of course. I think this is a very important issue. It is, in fact, a very tragic issue, since it ultimately leads to very great suffering for the families who are left behind. A special point must also be the prevention of suicide in children and in adolescents. If the rate of suicide is also higher than that of the elderly as a whole, The lower is, however, the most common cause of suicide in children and adolescents, and this should give us a great deal of thought. That is why I am really glad that the government parties give their approval to this request. On the basis of the request, of course, we can also stress the need for all the other applications that are now being discussed, namely to improve the outpatient psychotherapist care on the one hand or to start clinical-psychological treatment on the other, because we really have an under-supply in Austria. There would be a massive need for action. A very large number, about 20 to 25 percent, the Austrian population suffers from mental disturbances. Therapy places are almost impossible to get, and if, they are to be paid privately. That means we have a very massive incident. I know – and these objections have also been raised by Mr Rasinger in the Committee – that training needs to be carefully monitored to ensure that these meet certain quality standards. That's a point we're signing a hundred percent. At the same time, however, one must also stress that one does not, just because training may not always be adequate or because there are shortcomings, can say straight away, we do not need more care. I think you have to pack it at the root and make improvements in the field of training. But the government is free to do so immediately and to take action. In addition, as far as I know, the ÖVP also provides the Minister of Science, so there would certainly be possibilities. We shall, of course, vote in favour of this request. Even here, I think, is a very special point again the provision of children. The care of children with mental disorders is a very, very bad one. This is a complex of topics that we have discussed many times. The grants received by parents, as well as adults, amount to approximately €20, while a psychotherapy hour with approximately €80 comes to a beech. That is, we see that in truth we have a massive two-class medicine in the field of mental disorders. That's something we shouldn't really want or want. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In a very similar direction, Mr Spadiut's request is that the clinical-psychological diagnosis is actually taken over by the ASVG, but not the treatment. That means I'm making a diagnosis, but leave the last one. At the end of the day, patients are in the rain with their diagnosis. That is something that is not understandable, and we will therefore also give our consent to this request. There is a good solution in Salzburg. There is the so-called ARGE psychotherapy, where the local health phone was also involved and where psychotherapeutic care works relatively well – compared to other federal states. Then there is the request made by the Greens, Mr Green Forest, on the establishment of national health objectives, involving the social determinants. We will, of course, also give our consent to this. However, we will also give our approval to the request of the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19438	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19460	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The need to define natio In the light of demographic development, organisational and financial conditions for health care, the health objectives are to be seen in the light of specific pressures and challenges and at the same time in the context of social inequality, increased pressure on performance and economic development. The aim must be to create those conditions that help to keep people healthy and not to react to their diseases. It thus highlights those factors that have a decisive impact on health. These health determinants, such as education status, environmental impact, social security and work situation, provide strategic orientation. It takes into account both different areas and aspects. High quality, patient safety and justice are essential features of a future-oriented health system. On the basis of these health objectives, cross-sectoral measures are planned and implemented. At the Health Conference in May of this year, six key topics and starting points for the development of health objectives were defined. These are: healthy living conditions, healthy behaviour, health equal opportunities, delivery system design, special target groups and the topic of common diseases. The aim is not only to include an inter-sectoral cross-section of decision-makers, but also the population itself. The process of developing health targets will last one year and will be completed in the summer of 2012. The health goals themselves should be broadly formulated and constitute an essential step towards the Austrian health strategy, health for all. If you want to, it should be a forward-looking policy for our entire health system.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19502	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19523	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! It is not only always a better climate when applications are agreed, it is simply reason and propriety at times. I am very glad that the suicide prevention programme, which I wanted and which was submitted as an application, is supported by all parties. We're not talking about very funny things here. In some night shifts, I have even had to experience two people who have succeeded or who have tried to kill themselves, sometimes in a way that you never get out of your mind again. People become quite silent and it is a kind of dark side of the moon, behind which many of us cannot look, even many therapists, not where some happen from bright sky, patients withdraw, silent and no more rational arguments are available. The logo therapy of Viktor Frankl does not help either. If people don't see the meaning of life, they won't be able to infect it either. This is to be accepted, even if it is still so tragic. Something has to be done here. Spindelberger has already said something about the Austrian road. I quote from a psychiatric magazine, here the Austrian path is also mentioned in the suicide prevention program and there is in the publication: Only individual initiatives have offered AP projects, idealism is often uncoordinated and insufficiently networked. It is a typical Austrian solution, a collection of commissions. I'm looking for you here – you're laughing when you say: Working Group – do a working group you don’t laugh at. Call a responsible person in the health resort and get to know those people who have already worked on it – there are many programs – so that something will become out of it. I would urge you to do so. But now I come to the national health targets. That is where we have made proposals. The SPÖ has submitted an additional request. We were then finally able to merge both applications. This is very good and I hope, Minister, that you are successful here. I saw your event in Urania and, with all my appreciation, I was already a bit upset. If you invite a foreign scientist who then asked ministers what they were planning as national goals, and the answer from dog torfer was already okay, forged has come up with something after some thought, but otherwise it was so bad that many people said why did I arrive from Carinthia, Tyrol or Salzburg? It should be more. And now something where I can't show a good mood. There's been a psychotherapy law for almost 20 years. Since 1992, psychotherapy has been established as one of the medical services of the ASVG. That is, psychotherapy is anchored in the ASVG, and that means psychotherapy must be fully financed in terms of its costs or at least achieve a refund of at least 80 percent of the cash rate. This is not the case throughout Austria. And that's how it is after 21 years! Is that the Austrian way? Is this the way of the ministers responsible? I think that's an immense scandal, an adult scandal. Even the main association says that 900,000 Austrians are mentally ill. Sickness or sick leave has doubled since the 1990s. A large part of the applications for invalidity pensions are made on the basis of this diagnosis. It may be that some economists say these are all fake things. There may be a grey zone here, but everyone's not a swindler. And if someone is mentally ill and is 14 or 20 years old, this has nothing to do with invalidity pensions. Their ministry or a subordinate body of ÖWIG has accounted for a requirement of 2% of Austrians. 0.5 percent, a quarter of which is covered. This also says a study of the resort. What would happen? You say somatically ill? – A quarter of all heart attacks are treated, a quarter of all leg fractures nailed or shivered or gimped, a quarter of all anginas are judged by an ENT doctor or a doctor – all would cry out to heaven. But perhaps in order to achieve the applause that would be necessary, one really needs the support of the peasantry, and I am also looking for it, because there are enough suicides in rural areas, superfluous suicides, for example in the Styria. That is not to say if there is a rate of supply of 2.6 percent in Germany – fully paid! Mr Rasinger says: Psychotherapy is not a science, and here outraged pastors, professional teachers without scientific legitimacy. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: I never said that!]] – You said that, Mr Rasinger, in the last committee, very well, otherwise I would not have been so evocative. You questioned the entire professional group. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: No!]] - Of course! Of course! [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] There is – I know, I have a little bit more...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19584	Mr Grünewald, your group's total retirement period is about to end in 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19600	Then I'll say something. I'm curious if my colleague can still speak smoke-callat. She said she wanted to change the federal anthem or really, and I wonder if she was being stolen from her speaking time, whether these were really big sons.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19630	Mr Rasinger is speaking as the next speaker. I would draw attention to the fact that your group's overall speaking time, which is still open, is 1 minute. I'll set the clock accordingly. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19651	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I'll do it very briefly. I'm not going to discuss your favorite topic, psychotherapy, but I'm just saying: Unfortunately, you're lying wrong and you're twisting facts, but we can discuss that at another time. I'm here to say: The ÖVP confesses itself to this national suicide plan, to this suicide plan, because in Austria twice as many people die... – please, I don't know what's so funny about it – because in Austria twice as many people die of suicide as of traffic accidents. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Nice pass: It's incredible!]] [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ]] [[Unrest in the hall]] [[general hustle and bustle]] [[Abg. Grosz: The Sage of the Day!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] We don't have anything to add to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19732	Next speaker: Mr Spadiut. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19754	High house! According to § 135 ASVG, only the clinical-psychological diagnostic is anchored in the ASVG, but not the clinical-psychological treatment, although it is a core competence of the psychologists. The lack of treatment goes back to the care system. Treatment is of great importance for the further course of healing. People have been struggling less with physical problems lately than with mental problems. Some 900 000 Austrians are in treatment because of mental illness. This costs € 750 million. Here too, prevention could help reduce costs. Psychology has methods that can be used from the first months of life to old age. Without treatment, the course of disease is prolonged. Higher costs for the health system are the result. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Non-intakement into the ASVG also strengthens the formation of a two-class medicine. The treatment will then depend on income and on the available financial resources. Psychologists might also be able to anchor psychology in school medicine. Here, conspicuous children can be psychologically detected and treated at an early stage. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Unfortunately, our request was rejected in committee. However, it is to be welcomed that Mr Oberhauser has tabled a motion for a resolution, the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This whole thing brings. I am optimistic that psychological treatment will soon be included in the ASVG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19808	We shall now come to the last speaker on this item on the agenda. I would like to turn down the sound scene and give the last speaker the full attention to this item on the agenda. Mr. Ing. Oh, my God, my God. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19832	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make few comments on two requests which are under consideration. A key theme in health policy is: Health will be treated before illness. This is to be achieved through national health objectives, which the Federal Minister will work together with stakeholders from politics and society. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] The health of people is largely dependent on the circumstances of life, on education, social status, family situation, on the working environment, on income and on how he or she lives. Therefore, the primary responsibility for health lies with each individual. Policy is required to create a favourable environment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The national health objectives are intended to enable coordinated and targeted action for all areas of influence, namely health care, health care, education, the environment and the like. “Preserving health instead of treating illness” sounds logical in itself, but is often difficult to achieve in everyday life. How to strengthen the health competence of the population? How to force communication among older people or where there are language barriers? How to transport this claim to today's world of work? How to transport this claim to the consumer society, where there are many lovable habits to overcome? Ladies and gentlemen! The aim is a good piece ahead of us, and we are waiting for the results that the Federal Minister will present to Parliament within the annual term. A few comments on the proposal concerning suicide prevention: It is a request that we take very seriously, because statistically, suicide is the most common cause of death among up to 55-year-olds. Suicide affects mainly men, and especially men over 70 are affected by a dramatically increased risk. The Federal Minister was therefore asked to adapt the 2000 plan to the latest findings, particularly with particular emphasis on the risk of children and young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19894	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. No final word is desired. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 58: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1375 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 59: Proposal from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1376 of the additions to the motion for a resolution (1433/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall immediately vote on the resolution on the establishment of national framework health objectives attached to the Committee's report 1376 of the Supplements. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 193.) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 60: Proposal from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to adopt the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1377 on the establishment of a national programme for the prevention of suicide. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 194.) We shall also vote on agenda item 61: Proposal from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1378 of the additions to the resolution 1582/A(E). Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution on clinical-psychological treatment attached to the Committee's report 1378. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give him the approval to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 195.) [[20:47:20]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00114_d8e19991	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted by 1632/A(E) to 1658/A. Questions 9034/J to 9147/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 8.47 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
