ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4347	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 98. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. [[10:02:08]] Memorial minute for the victims of the earthquake disaster in Japan
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4372	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We gather to a special meeting of the National Council on the occasion of a whole series of disasters that have broken into the hands of Japan and its people, a series of disasters whose extent is not yet recognizable. [[Those present rise from their places.]] We do not know how many dead people will ultimately complain of how many injuries there will be, how serious the lasting physical and psychological wounds will be. We can best imagine the extent of human suffering. Nor can material damage be measured at the moment, nor do we know the ecological consequences of this tragedy. Our deep compassion applies to the Japanese people during this difficult time. I welcome his Excellency Ambassador Shigeo Iwatani and seek to convey our participation to his home country. For many years, excellent contacts have existed between Austria and Japan at a political, economic, diplomatic and cultural level. The quality of these relationships must prove at such moments, which, of course, cannot only be expressed in words. The world has become a village thanks to permanent information in Ist-Zeit. We participate in tragedies like those in Japan live and immediately. Whether we want to or not, we will be witnesses of inconceivable events. We see pictures of a force and urgency as soon as the world goes down, and human fates are brought before our eyes in an intensity that is hardly feasible. This immediate participation in the disaster also means globalisation, which we cannot escape. However, we can ask ourselves if we are satisfied with the fact that our current interest or even our curiosity is satisfied, and then we follow the media industriousness to the next crisis scene. I believe that responsibility derives from the closeness to the disaster created by the media. All of us, the international community of states and fate, are invited to show solidarity. The reconstruction in Japan will require enormous use and will cost a lot of money – and it will take a very long time. In the coming days, weeks and months, it will be a matter of pooling all the forces to help quickly, coordinate and effectively. In doing so, we are involved within the scope of our possibilities. In the past, the Austrians have repeatedly demonstrated a sense of responsibility and willingness to help in such situations. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, this time too. Proven organisations have launched fundraising; the account numbers can be found in the media. – Thank you for your help now. This special meeting of the National Council is to be a sign of the participation of official Austria, on the other hand, we want to discuss political consequences from the events in Japan, specifically from the Fukushima reactor accident. All political groups agree on a clear approach. No to nuclear energy, to which Austria decided more than 30 years ago after a referendum. Under the impression of recent events, too, in many other countries the realization that nuclear energy will never really be manageable, that risks cannot be fully estimated, that long-term follow-up costs cannot be calculated, that the price of nuclear energy is all too high. It is currently in Europe the opportunity to reorientate energy policy, because many governments are not able to ignore the fears of more and more people. This critical sensitivity must be used for persuasion work per exit and for the search for alternatives, without teaching, taking into account the special circumstances and without compromising for party political benefits. In the end, however, the political consequence will not be exhausted in a mere no. Rather, the invincible use of nuclear energy shows us the limit of the feasible. The debate will be to be held on this because it is inevitable, not only now under the impression of the disaster, but with all the consequence, materiality, sustainability and with a long breath that will undoubtedly be necessary. We remember in a minute's silence the victims in Japan. [[Those present persist for some time in dumb mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take their seats again.]] The official protocols of 96 and 97. Meeting of 1. ==References====External links==* Official website Deputies Bayr, Dr. Matznetter, Glaser, Kößl, Schmijenschlager, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, Dr. Graf, Ing. Höbart, Ing. Hofer, Dr. Hübner, Themessl, Dr. Grünewald, Mag. Schwentner and gift. [[10:08:20]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4453	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that the honourable Member Ing. Norbert Kapeller has renounced his mandate and in his place of power. Michael Hammer was appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I should now like to ask the rapporteur, Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4492	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4514	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4529	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4555	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Rudolf Hundstorfer is represented by the Federal Minister for Health Alois Stöger, diplômé. The Federal Chancellor announced his intention to make a statement on the topic “Current perspectives of Austrian and European energy policy to Fukushima”. Mr. Vice-Chancellor will not make his intended statement due to his illness. Instead, the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, the Environment and Water Industry has informed us to make a statement on the same subject. At this point, I should like to ask Mr Vice-Chancellor for an early recovery. [[General condolences.]] There is a request by five Members to refer to these statements in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate immediately. [[10:10:29]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4616	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:10:38]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4806	Before entering the agenda, MEPs Neubauer, colleagues, asked for urgent consideration of the written question made at the beginning of the meeting 7984/J by Members Neubauer, colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on “the failure of the Austrian Federal Government in the anti-atomic policy”. The implementation of the urgent request will be carried out at the earliest three hours after its submission, i.e. at 1:15 p.m., following the debate on the statements made by the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. Let's go into the agenda. I announce that the ORF will be transferred live from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 1.20 p.m. to 14.58 p.m. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4838	The Presidential Conference agreed on the following time frame for the debate on the statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry: Federal Chancellor Faymann starts with 10 minutes, it follows Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich with 5 minutes, a round of speakers with 10 minutes each, a word by Federal Minister Dr. A 5-minute middle-leigher and the further speaking time per group of 20 minutes. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of the honourable Member to 10 minutes per debate without a club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – Adopted unanimously. [[10:12:08]] Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the topic “Current perspectives of Austrian and European energy policy according to Fukushima”
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4885	We now come to the statements of the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management according to § 19 para. 2 GOG on the topic “Current perspectives of Austrian and European energy policy in Fukushima”. Following these statements, a debate will be held in accordance with Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e4912	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Honourable Members! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Seamlessly then to the minutes of memory, we know that while we are discussing here, people in Japan continue to fight against an exceptional state. Whether they will win this battle or not will become a crucial question for thousands, indeed hundreds of thousands of people. Whether this battle will be won will possibly decide on the lives and deaths of many people – and will also decide whether water remains drinkable, whether food remains edible or not. This will also decide whether or not to add to the numerous restricted areas already responsible for nuclear technology. Therefore, I would also like at this point the many brave helpers who have been since 12. March 2011 has done everything possible to stop an even greater disaster in Japan, expressing my highest regard. [[General condolences.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it would be absurd to go to the agenda in the face of such an accident, without at the same time, while we decide to help and banish the latest news reports, not only to think about an exit from nuclear technology, but also to take the appropriate steps. We know that future energy supply in Europe should take place without nuclear energy, because nuclear energy poses a sustainable risk. And we know that nuclear lobbies that lead us to safety promise security, for example, with sentences like: The next time all this can't happen!, lied. Therefore: To oppose these atomic lobbies is an obligation of Austria – especially since we defined a clear vote of the population against nuclear energy in Austria in 1978 and thus made us a spokesman in Europe not to force nuclear technology as a forward-looking energy. Now, of course, I know that in the Austrian Parliament there is probably no one here who would give a speech for nuclear technology. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Schüssel) No, no!]] Therefore, I assume that both the government and the opposition are on the same side when it comes to mobilising all the forces in Europe and wherever possible to push forward an exit scenario – and only that is a security, namely the exit from this technology. We know that there are persistent forces, persistent forces with much economic influence, influence on politics, and a close network is connected between atomic lobbies and many politicians. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Cuddle! RWE!]] These atomic lobbies, without yet knowing today the actual number of human victims, victims and the terrible effects on the environment and living conditions of people through the accident in Japan, are already working on their concepts and marketing strategies to ensure that all this will be forgotten as quickly as possible. Our task is not to forget this disaster – even in the European population. Our task is to drive alternative energies, energy efficiency, renewable energy, including technologies such as natural gas with storage capacities as complementary energy and to strengthen scenarios that push back nuclear technology and eventually eliminate it. We know that we have developed a clear position at European level at CO2, which we cannot speak of in some areas of Europe, including Austria, but that we have reached an agreement that says: We want to reduce CO2, stop global warming and thus secure people's livelihoods, because: If you don't do anything, destroy the environment! However, the fact that this has meant for atomic lobbyists to drive another life-threatening technology, even to represent the expansion – not only of existing nuclear power stations – shows that business-making is also in the foreground. I know that this is not true of Austria, but I would rather, as the head of government of a country that does not have nuclear power, if we did not have to export anything, because I know that nuclear power is not to be stopped at the border. [[Calls: Import]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Without importing electricity with its own resources, such as natural gas and storage capacity, it would certainly be an objective in our country. But we also know that it is not only about Austria: It is about nuclear power stations close to the border as well as power plants in Europe. It is therefore not only a task that is of worldwide importance, but also a challenge to the future of energy in Europe. Every day cynics speak out, saying they shouldn't be exaggerating the dangers. – I believe that there is more exaggeration in the imagination than the daily pictures from Japan that are overplayed, no one is capable of anyway. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Martin Bartenstein in the main committee!]] The most terrible thing, namely to risk the destruction of life bases for hundreds, perhaps for thousands of years, and then cynically to say that one cannot insure and, at the same time, to present a cost bill, yes, a cost lie, namely that nuclear power is particularly cheap, that must not go through a democracy! And for all our luck, there is democracy and democratic elections in the countries of Europe. Therefore, I do not trust that France will join our opinion at the next European Council. I also know that this afternoon, when Czech Prime Minister Necas visits me, the possibilities of moving him to a rethink are relatively low. Nevertheless, it is our task to push forward with determination, because – and I am convinced of this – this catastrophe will lead to a rethinking in the population of Europe. So I have less confidence in such a government, including individual government representatives. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We too!]] I have to tell you: It's not the hour to change political change! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can tell you: We from the Federal Government have decided an action plan – so that we can be united, decisive and determined everywhere – and I am happy to be able to reach the opposition in this context, because we cannot be divided there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vilimsky]] We have enough to do in Europe to slow down those who are in favour of nuclear technology and to stand firm against them! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The world has not yet approved or completed a single warehouse. Today, there is no nuclear waste storage worldwide, which is not considered provisional. Greenpeace has calculated that in 2030 alone, some 24 000 cubic metres of highly radioactive nuclear waste occur in Germany; this corresponds to about 17 000 tonnes of heavy metal from burned fuel elements and reprocessing waste. All of these are facts and facts that are behind dangerous technologies that endanger our future. I am therefore convinced that we must use everything that is possible in a democracy – all the initiatives, the citizens' initiative that is being created in the European Union, but also all the signature initiatives must speak out in a loud voice – to show the population that it is serious to us and that it is our task to decide, even in a democracy at all forthcoming elections, whether we should get out of nuclear technology. [[Abg. Kickl: Just you! That's it!]] [[Abg. Kickl: A bankruptcy statement!]] This is the true strength in relation to the formation of opinions in Europe. This distinguishes Europe from other parts of the world, where the population does not have these opportunities, such as Europe's population. This does not cause us Austrians to become small in our task, but it does occur by a determined approach. I know that there are very different developments in the question of nuclear power plants in the border regions, even in our neighbouring countries. After the accident in Japan, the German Chancellor announced that at least a provisional decommissioning of some nuclear power plants would take place. We know that the objective is not achieved if only a few nuclear power plants are shut down, but only when the exit from this technology takes place. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: Who can't believe this?]] We also reserve the right to bring complaints where it is possible for us. In view of all these events in Japan, we do well to use them in all those areas where we have legal means. [[Abg. New builder: For ten years you have been saying this!]] This applies to political changes in the context of, for example, the Euratom Treaty, which is driving more and more parliamentarians in the European Parliament and which want our support for the Euratom Treaty to be re-understanded as a Treaty to define an exit scenario, a scenario in which renewable energy is to be promoted. I would therefore ask you to understand the discussion here in Parliament, the discussion in Austria in such a way that we do not make each other small, but instead make ourselves strong together in Europe against nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e5116	I now grant Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich for 5 minutes the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e5161	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that before we talk about the political consequences of the disaster in Japan, we are thinking of the suffering of the Japanese population. The terrible earthquake and the huge tsunami have cost many people life – the pictures are disastrous. Our compassion is for the suffering population in Japan. And it is good and right that both the European Union and Austria help – financially and materially. This is our first duty, and we are committed to it to the people of Japan! [[Congratulation with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens as well as the Abg. Hagen.]] Japan has experienced the strongest earthquake in its history, and this earthquake has also had a political impact – in the world and in Europe – because the nuclear disaster has once again made clear: Atomic power is not safe! Atomic power is not controllable! More than 30 years ago, the people of Austria demonstrated far-sightedness when they jointly prevented the nuclear power plant in Zwentendorf – at a time when nuclear energy was still considered essential for an industrial nation. Austria is nuclear-free, the Austrians decided to do this at the time, and today it turns out that this route was right. We must thank this generation for this. It is therefore only consistent and also a commitment for us to continue this path, both in Europe and in the world. People are now often heard saying: Something must always happen before something happens! – This is unfortunately the case with nuclear power too. Let's remember Chernobyl: According to Chernobyl, no one in the world wanted nuclear power, today, 25 years after that, the world, but also many states in Europe increasingly rely on nuclear power. Obviously, it has not been learned from it. But the drama in Japan forces us to think and turn around. Those who have seen the smoking reactors of Fukushima and the desperate helpers must realize that this cannot be our future. Whoever has not understood the signs of the time has not understood anything. Throughout the world, and especially in Europe, people now have a discussion about nuclear power – and that is a good thing. I expressly welcome the fact that a few months ago, for example, Germany, which has extended the duration of the nuclear power stations – we have protested and demanded to close, for example, Isar 1 – makes a change of course. Germany has closed not only Isar 1 but a total of seven cars. [[Abg. New builder: But not because you have intervened so great!]] And it is true that in Germany and also in other countries, a discussion on nuclear power has started and started. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] For us, it was and is clear precisely because of our past and our competence, which we have acquired through it in Austria: Get out of atom, go to renewable energy! – But to be heard in Europe, we need to speak with a common voice, with an Austrian voice, with a red and white-red voice. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... colleague Schüssel!]] It is now not the time to make political little money out of it, but it is necessary that we reach a national etiquette that we must join forces for the Austrians. [[Call the Greens: What about the bowl?]] This is important to the ÖVP, which is also important to Vice-Chancellor Pröll, and I am therefore pleased that today the Federal Government has jointly adopted an action plan in the Council of Ministers. A joint project of this Federal Government, which says: Out of atom, to renewable energies. And I'll invite you to: Let's go this way together – for Austria and for Europe! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is clear that with this Council of Ministers decision we acknowledge that both the Federal Chancellor and the ministers of this Federal Government will take every opportunity to promote this path at all levels: Out of atom, to renewable energies. If we were once considered to be something special – well, they don't rely on nuclear power – it turns out today that this is a right way to go. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Get out of Euratom!]] The joint action plan “Raus out of Atom” includes a rethinking on energy policy and also showing the necessary alternatives. I recently presented a study of an energy autarchic Austria, whereby we generate all the energy in our own country, save energy, use energy efficiently and propagate renewable energy. [[Calls for Greens]] – You don't have a plan, we have a plan of how things work together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It also includes direct measures such as the stress test for nuclear power plants, i.e. safety checks. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] I know that you are trying to make this test worse, but that is certainly a way to shape Europe, because the Commission has taken over this – and that must not be a free letter to the nuclear lobby. In Japan it appears that the operator company of Fukushima was obviously sloppy, dizzy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Si tacuisses!, I can only say that!]] That is why we need the stress tests: in order for them to be merciless, tabloidly clarified, we need to reveal how it stands around the nuclear power plants around Austria and across Europe. This is necessary – and then the reactors have to be switched off. [[Abg. Kickl: An eye wiper!]] For nuclear liability: We have a strict nuclear liability law in Austria; all of them are liable. In Europe, on the other hand, there is no one who is liable for it. It can't be that the taxpayer is responsible for damage caused by nuclear power stations! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kickl and the greens.]] Therefore, a joint anti-atomic course of the Austrian Federal Government, a way towards renewable energy. That's an hour's commandment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e5314	We are going into the debate on the statements. The speaking times are known. As First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e5338	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In these difficult hours after this great disaster, of course, our whole compassion for the Japanese people is valid – this, of course, has been expressed by all the Members of this House. Of course, it is necessary for us all to show solidarity here and to give assistance to the Japanese people wherever we can. This is also the command of the international community that solidarity must also be lived. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] I am glad that there was closeness on the part of the opposition, on the initiative of the liberals to hold today's special meeting, so that we can debate and show whatever hypocrisy there is at times on this issue, namely nuclear energy, which is a dangerous energy. I am sure that all of us will not forget the terrible pictures of earthquakes, tsunami and also nuclear disaster in Japan. These pictures are sustainable, are warning to us and must also teach us. But it is also to be feared that, like after a disaster that we have already experienced, namely Chernobyl, where awareness-raising was very big at that time, will again be transferred to the agenda again. But that's not to happen. It is not allowed to go back to the agenda. Of course, you will never be able to prevent natural disasters, you can only try to protect yourself from them as much as you can. But earthquakes, flood waves, volcanic eruptions, natural disasters will unfortunately again and again. What we can prevent, however, are the disasters we owe people themselves to. And, of course, the use of nuclear energy is one of the causes of major human disasters. That is why we now have to draw the right conclusion for Europe from the nuclear threat that Japan is facing, and this conclusion can only be read: Out of nuclear energy, decommissioning all nuclear power plants! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it is important to set accents in this context. The fact that Austria is free from nuclear power plants has been emphasized today, and we are glad and proud that Austria is free of nuclear power plants thanks to a binding referendum, thanks to the majority decision of the Austrian population. That was a very, very reasonable decision. And this shows that we need more binding referendums in our country to make reasonable decisions in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that energy policy is on the head is due to the diligent lobbyists of the nuclear industry who have managed to sell a particularly dangerous form of energy production as “clean” and “climate-clean”. However, nuclear energy is anything but a practical bridge technology on the way to energy policy reason in this world. Nuclear energy is expensive and dangerous. Unfortunately, what can become of an incident in an AKW, we have now had to experience God’s suffering in Fukushima. A total of 150 incidents occurred in the Temelín scrap reactor. In German nuclear power plants alone, there were about 1 300 reported incidents in 2000; the total number for Europe is in the five-digit area. Therefore: After such horror scenarios, you cannot simply go back to the agenda. It is also important not to mention the political leaders. Unfortunately, there are representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP, who often and on many questions of the EU-Atomlobby have fallen into disrepute, so to speak. We have had to experience this in the vote on the Treaty of Lisbon. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] During the vote on the Lisbon Treaty, the Freedom Party was the only party in Austria and here in the House, which voted against, while all the other parties here in the House voted in favour of this Treaty. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's wrong!]] We had only one Member at the time, and this was very clear and clear, namely a clear position. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] No to say to the Euratom Treaty, but all the other political groups here in the House have said yes to the Euratom Treaty. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is therefore already to be referred to as a thread if you do here today as if it had not happened. [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] . I already understand the exasperation of Members who voted in favour of it at the time. [[Abg. Scheibner: You mix two questions! That was something completely different!]] And I also remember: Where was your veto when we were from the Freedom Party against the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union?- Oh, my God! Why was there no veto against the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU? Why did one not say at the time that Temelín was specifically concerned that an EU accession of this country could only take place after the Temelín nuclear power station had been closed?- Oh, my God! That's exactly what I'm expecting now in the case of the Krško nuclear power station, that we show closeness here in the High House and say: Exit from the use of nuclear energy in Krško, because this nuclear power station is close to our border. This nuclear power station is located on Slovenian soil, is of course operated by Croatia, and there we could say: Croatia can then join the EU if the Krško nuclear power station is previously closed! That would be closeness that I wished for; that would be a effort of strength that should go from this House here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, I ask you to finally show you red and white-red strength that you have requested today. We could have lived this red-white-red strength in Temelín compared to the Czech Republic. And now we also have to live with Croatia, just what the Krško nuclear power station is going to do. That is exactly what I would imagine when one speaks of red-white-red closure and of the consequence that one should derive from this disaster. The Preamble of the Euratom Treaty contains the declaration of intent to build a powerful European nuclear industry. And there the Greens voted in favour; that is already mentioned here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] One could only wonder why you agreed to the Lisbon Treaty with this legally binding annex to the Euratom Treaty, but here you say: [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... never voted in favour of the Euratom Treaty!]] Get out of the Euratom Treaty! So this would be the chance to say: Yes, we are living red and white, we today agree with the FPÖ proposal to enforce the exit from the Euratom Treaty. [[Calls for Greens]] That would be red-white-red consequence and closing that I expect from you today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If today it is said that Austria is a small country and has no great enforcement, then I can only reply: Yes, but you have to take concrete steps, and Austria, as a small country, has the opportunity to build up pressure. We're talking about renewable energy, energy autonomy, energy independence. And to do that, you have to say: Yes, energy independence is possible if we do not continue to allow subsidies to flow towards the nuclear industry. Let's stop that! Let's make sure we subsidize renewable energy! Because then we have the chance to become energy independent in the next three decades. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then there is competitiveness, because nuclear energy is expensive, and today, unfortunately, a subsidy policy that goes towards nuclear companies creates an imbalance. That should be done, and we have the opportunity to do so. The propaganda of cheaper nuclear energy is a smooth lie! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we are prepared to provide substantial support for clean domestic energy sources, we can achieve this energy independence in the coming decades. Then we are no longer dependent on importing nuclear power into Austria. That's exactly where you can put pressure, you can ensure red-white-red closure. It would be important for me to see this here today from the High House and that requests, including those of the opposition parties, finally find approval and support from the SPÖ and ÖVP sides. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would make you clear from ÖVP and SPÖ that you honestly believe that this is not another discussion where in reality there is nothing behind it. It was emphasized today that there was a referendum 30 years ago and that is why we are nuclear-free. 25 years ago, the SPÖ tried to enforce the exit from the nuclear barrier contract in this House. This has failed thanks to the Freedom Party, which has already ensured a credible and consistent anti-atomic policy in this House at the time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is precisely here that we should finally support this credibility on the part of the government parties with concrete measures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot ahead of us, but we also have personalities like Wolfgang Schüssel, who works at RWE. Of course, there are also here in the House of Atom Lobbies, and I would like these atomic lobbyists in this House to finally become a radical minority. That would be my great wish, but I do not believe, because many are claping today, but in reality they are not at all determined enough to offer nuclear energy the forehead as well. But I think that is necessary, and we have the opportunity to make ourselves self-autonomous with hydropower, wind power, solar thermal energy, photovoltaics, biomass, but also geothermal in the coming decades, if we want to do so if we invest there. That's what we want. We are not only willing to do that, but that is our programme. And if we talk about "Austria first", then I must say that is also an area, namely to ensure autonomous energy supply and also to protect our own environment and nature. That's an order to all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e5526	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e5547	Madam President. High house! First of all, I am proud of Austria. In 1978, in a referendum, we decided not to go the way of nuclear energy. [[Abg. Grosz: Against the SPÖ!]] And we have the greatest credibility in Europe today when we appear, and we believe that it should also be for the other countries to say goodbye to nuclear energy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whoever has read “Die Zeit” last weekend knows that under the title “No Lies More” the message of this renowned German weekly magazine is described in a comment among other things: Nuclear energy technology is invincible, it does not forgive any mistakes, it is inhuman and therefore not to be used. And I think after the events in Harrisburg, Chernobyl and now in Fukushima this is just a confirmation. The cynical thing is that there are these cases again and again. The cynic must be apparent that the atomic lobbyists know exactly what the risk is, but take it into account that, if there are these accidents, it can lead to an irradiation on millenniums, with untold victims in the population. This is the scandal that really appears here and that one must also be clear in all its clarity. Austria can and will make its contribution, and it is also over with the reproach of the nuclear lobby, which says, Chernobyl, that was a communist nuclear power plant, which cannot work. It did not work for the whole Communism, therefore a communist power plant cannot work either. Fukushima is General Electric, Fukushima is Hightech, Fukushima is in a high-tech country, and there de facto happens one of the biggest disasters that Japan has had to experience since 1945. This should actually be enough to achieve a global exit from nuclear energy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because we were just lying: After all, it is a bond of lies, a network of corruption, politics and lobbyists, which is always expressed there. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: (wise towards ÖVP) There's one of them!]] This is because we are starting the debate with the safety tests of nuclear power plants, for example, pointing out – apart from the fact that, of course, this must be mandatory, of course, it must also be based on European standards, and of course, we also need to publish the results in order to clarify this at once – and all of you will have read it in recent days: It has by law taken a decision by the government of Kohl, in which it has said that if something happens in a nuclear power plant, then a maximum of the immediate environment of the nuclear power plant may be affected. So I assume that there are no safe nuclear power plants at all, but if one implements the Kohl’s safety standard, then, I believe, at least since then, nuclear energy has not been a competitive form of energy. Since 1950, nuclear energy in Germany has been funded with €160 billion – infrastructure, research funding, the devil knows everything – funded by public funds. There seems to be also the cynical thinking behind that: First, the taxpayer, the citizen and the citizen must pay for this form of energy, and if something happens, he has the consequences to suffer, see Japan, and must pay for it himself again. And there's someone else to say that's a clean energy form. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right! Let's get out of here!]] It is not a clean form of energy, especially morally. [[Abg. Kickl: Morally, that's not clean what you're doing here!]] However, it is also an economic error, and it is ultimately a security policy anyway a single disaster. Now we're coming to the next cynicism. We all know when such a nuclear power plant is closed – who by the way pays the costs when a nuclear power plant is stopped, when it is then dismantled, all the cost questions; probably again the public – then the fuel elements come into an intermediate warehouse, there they have to cool out for a few decades and then they come to a final warehouse, and it means that it will take about 100,000 years until they are finally harmless. And now I read – I think it was in the press – that the scientists are researching how to shorten this, we say from 100,000 years to 500 years. You have to imagine that! 500 years are a small thing. What have been 500 years? Sometime since Christoph Columbus, my God. This cynicism! It's not just a cost-effective thing. Who actually calculates this to 500 years? Who's to pay for this? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The lobbys are supposed to pay this!]] That is to say, this is in the final effect a single lie that can be preserved because it is obviously in a context of lobbyism and corruption and is linked to political decision-makers and economic decision-makers. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: (indicating ÖVP) Look in this direction!]] Japan and other countries are an example of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next Cynicism: It will be, I read, offered old nuclear power stations, which are being rebuilt at half the price. That is to say, because this was such a success story in Fukushima or anywhere, we build it at half the price, best, I read, in the desert, as if there were no solar energy there, as if there were no other forms of energy like oil or sun. No, at half the price one builds old nuclear power stations there, with the old risk again. Old nuclear power stations make a profit of € 2 million a day for the operator. The older, the more profitable, the more uncertain. A scandal like that! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Ask which Member is for it!]] – Maybe he'll speak and say something about it. - The older, the more profitable. A single scandal! And I have to tell you again: Cynical to the excretion! Now you have to be responsible enough to say: Yes, we want to say goodbye to nuclear energy, but we are required. It needs alternative energy forms, energy saving concepts, sustainability. Of course! That's all. This is, of course, because we know that the global nuclear energy share is about 6 percent and the share of electricity supplies worldwide is about 15 percent. We need a socially sound transition, this has to be financeable, this has to make technical sense. And you're already there, there's already. The question is only what intensity and what commitment is behind it so that you get to this goal as quickly as possible. On the proposal of Mrs. Federal Chancellor Merkel: To be honest, what does moratorium mean to suspend for three months, what does it mean to take off the net for a certain period of time? They should definitely say goodbye to these nuclear power plants and point out! [[Conspicuousness with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Bitch.]] In fact, they are also presented with the invoice. It is heard that Merkel wanted to see the issue of nuclear energy on the agenda at the European Council now that the issue will be discussed. French and British are not for this. They say not so fast, don't rush. Obviously, these are still too few incidents, they still want some more. Even in the UK, there has been a huge disturbance in an AFC with contamination of the entire environment. But that's still not enough. To this cynicism, I can only say that the sentence “Time” has written is just right. Of course, Euratom can make a contribution, clearly, to change the objectives, to change the prospects for support. This requires only the approval of all those who work there, and of course this is always boycotted. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We need something new!]] Yes, yes, but I also believe that it would be necessary for this institution to be reorientated. But that won't go without there really being pressure here. There is still no referendum in the European Union. And if you go from government to government now, because the national competence is, and then you say: Please, dear government, make a referendum! Then the French will say No, then other No will say. I think you have to deal with such a thing with a popular desire movement, just as the Federal Chancellor, as Sigmar Gabriel suggested, did. That, I think, is the only right thing. Now there is the willingness of the population of Europe. Now the governments that continue to pack up at the expense of the safety and health of the population who are willing to waste tax money on the nuclear lobby must be swept away. They have to be selected. This is the perspective and can be the sustainable effect of a popular desire movement. I'm deeply convinced of that. This is one of the important, essential objectives, with the second point: By a really high lattice of safety, as high as possible, one will make it possible to convey that this is no longer competitive any longer, as we have said last time in the plenary debate here in this context. I believe that the Federal Government will use the possibilities as before. I believe that we have to put pressure here, of course, on the population, especially on the countries in the neighbourhood of Austria. This is of great importance. [[Abg. Kickl: But now you can't do it!]] It must begin there the thinking process, it must have consequences for the governments there. And I think the time is ripe. The daily reports from Fukushima, which are happening there, how little control it is when reactor blocks explode there, which has an impact on the vegetables, the water, on the lives of people, which can produce all natural disasters, will lead to a sustainable rethinking process, to new forms of energy, to a new form of how to arrange economically with these forms of energy. This must take place in a form that of course these new forms of energy – and that will be the case – are also a productive factor. This will lead to economic growth, which will lead to employment, and it will have a real meaning. I'm optimistic. Austria will make its contribution, and we will ensure that the exit in Europe and worldwide will really take place.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e5744	Dr. Glavischnig is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e5765	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced, Mr Bundeskanzler, that the Czech Prime Minister will tell you this afternoon a sentence: Our nuclear power plants are the safest in the world. I am convinced that the Japanese Prime Minister said exactly the same sentence two weeks ago, and probably with greater permission: Our nuclear power plants are the safest in the world. I think every Prime Minister of a country that operates nuclear power stations will say this sentence, and that is exactly what describes the absurdity of the situation. If you look at it very soberly, there is the so-called residual risk. The remaining risk is described in the language of the technicians as the probability of an accident in a nuclear power plant that is invincible, the so-called Super-GAU, the invincible accident. The target values for this residual risk for the non-controllable accident – here there are targets – are, if you calculate this, at a statistical probability of 23 years. That is, it is a technology that has set itself the goal: Every 23 years, statistically speaking, a little invincible flies into the air. And from my point of view, this is not ethically acceptable. This is not acceptable to anyone. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, we are here in Austria in the situation that around the Austrian borders very dangerous nuclear power plants are located in extreme density: some still Soviet construction, some new ones where grafted West technology has been added, some on earthquake lines such as Krško, some without containment like Mochovce – by the way similar to Fukushima with boiling water reactors – under the strict high-risk reactors. We would have liked to have, and many people in Austria would have wished for a clear response from Austria, the Austrian Environment Minister after this accident, instead of these crazy stress test proposals, which came exclusively from the nuclear camp: Turn off the high-risk reactors now! Now! And not stress tests. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have not reported anything about the outcome of yesterday's meeting of the ministers of the economy. Oettinger wanted to suggest that only Euratom officials, the supervisory authorities, only “Atom lobbyists” – under quotation marks – set the criteria for stress tests. This is a clear nuclear lobby initiative, and Austria must not be with it. Austria has a different role in this discourse. Something is moving all over the world, and that, Mr President-in-Office, can now be an argument for the Council. In Germany: Many say we can't shut down all the reactors within a few days. But let's take a very precise look at that. Of the seven reactors, which have now gone off the grid in Germany, three were not currently in operation. Germany has an overcapacity of installed electricity capacity of one third. You have to imagine that! This is not a question of security of supply for the population. That's why it's not in the Czech Republic either. Temelín is a pure export power plant, which makes only money. And we need to talk about this, about the financial and commercial side of the nuclear industry. This is only about profits. This is not a question of security for the population in the field of power supply, here it is only about money. In this context, I would like to ask you, Dr. Schüssel, from this point of view: They are always silent about this subject, but I and many people think it is incompatible that at the same time you will cash 200 000 € to 300 000 € profit participation as a Supervisory Board – yes, that is the advertised annual deal to read on the homepage – and at the same time vote with it within the framework of the nuclear consensus and make it with politics. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] That's not compatible! And I don't understand how you can't even speak here, hide behind the paper and not express yourself on this situation. Please, express your opinion on this inconsistency! Pull the consequences! It's not okay. It's really not okay. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's impossible!]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: Incredible!]] Belief in this issue is an important matter, as is the Austrian initiatives, whatever you now seriously address. We have observed for years that anti-atomic policy has not played a role at all in this House and, above all, in the government. So that was a subject that was being smiled. It was said that these greens with their Euratom and with their antiatomic. All the proposals that we have made in terms of text and initiative have been watered down by the ÖVP to absolute non-statements, watered down for years. When paper was produced, it was paper for the drawer, but we did not see any serious initiatives. [[Abg. Amon: That's not true! They say the untruth here!]] Now you insist that the nuclear liability is not all right. You know what? 12 years ago, there was a motion for a resolution here in this House on the Austrian Atomic Liability Act, made exemplary by the call: Carry this out in Europe! That was 12 years ago. And today you're coming to the point that you might be able to do that. So you have to understand that we are a bit frustrated by this inactionlessness in recent years. Now wake up. That is good, that is important, and we will also support you, but we will not support you in the wrong ways, but in the real exit initiatives and real exit routes. Not in the stress test, you can do it alone with the atomic lobby. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to say one more word to the people who are now on the ground, to the workers who are now trying to keep it under control. You have to think about it again: These are 50 workers who are now literally fighting using their lives. They use their lives to control this reactor in any form. They already know they're irradiated. They probably know that they will also die of radiation disease, but still they are trying to keep the technology under control. And these 50 people deserve our highest respect at this point. [[General condolences.]] Belief in Austrian energy policy means that the national energy supply companies, that the combination that all do business with nuclear power imports, should make business transparent and then get out of business. In the edition dealing with the private customers with eco electricity and then making cheap profits hidden under the spell with atomic current is absolutely hypocritical and unclean. So TIWAG, SAFE, all the energy suppliers who do business here, including the combination: Get out with the contracts and then get out of these contracts! This is hypocritical and harms our political position. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also not credible that we say on the one hand, yes, ecostrom is important, while on the other hand we block the expansion. We have now made room for a nuclear power plant, for the last ten years, through electricity consumption increases and constant reduction of the renewable share in our electricity grid. In the years 2003, 2004, 2005 we spent the triple of what we are spending on eco electricity funding. It's €300 million now. The Federal Republic of Germany spends €9 billion. They're taking money in their hands. This is held back from us, blocked, made small, because one has no interest in establishing it into an industry. These companies receive their orders abroad in particular and make their profits there. There are companies that have 100 percent export rate in the field of photovoltaics. Photovoltaic stands in Austria. This is not what the ÖVP wanted. Photovoltaics should as far as possible be praised and classified as garden dwarf technology. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] - You say that's not true. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Every year there are thousands of requests from citizens who want to change, who want to promote and do not receive them. This is double-bidden and harms our credibility. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Energy efficiency!]] Therefore: A hundred percent use of eco-electric technologies and also a proper promotion! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] In view of the billions that are shown to be spent in Europe for the promotion of nuclear energy, I would never want to hear this argument that eco electricity is so expensive again! That's really ridiculous. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And then we still have companies like the STRABAG, who say: Yes, we build everything, we also build a nuclear power plant! – The consequence of this would have to be to build such companies that are not afraid to build on Mochovce and to say that it is only an outbuilding anyway, we do not deliver the fuel rods to exclude from public contracts. Why should this be further supported by the public? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: I've never heard such a stump!]] [[Abg. Hornek: Explain to us what you want!]] So there is something to do for our credibility. I would like to say two or three sentences on the international and European perspectives. Everything that happens outside Austria's borders is important. It is important to interfere in Germany. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, drive closed to Germany and join the demonstrations for an atomic exit! Get involved and talk not only here in Austria! Hundreds of thousands of people are on the street! Convince Mrs. Chancellor Merkel that this is an error that serves exclusively profit interests! Mr Schüssel, if you are there at the demonstrations, then we can talk seriously again, but not before. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In France there is movement, in Switzerland there is movement, China has for the first time suspended the authorisation for new power plants, in South America has now been reduced a lot, even in France there are longer-term discussions. – This is an incredibly important window. That's why, Federal Chancellor: Don't make yourself small! Description You don't have your own powerlessness by proclaiming a popular desire now! This is strange for a German chancellor. Imagine Merkel or Obama making a popular desire. They are supposed to bring in government initiatives. They should now try to be behind the scenes all over Europe. You are now the Federal Chancellor in a window of opportunity of a country that has rightly opted for the exit from nuclear energy. Advertise popular votes throughout Europe! Advertise for alternative energy supply options! Offer the Czech energy to clean up their plate buildings! They are called there with electricity – the most inefficient at all – as well as the French. Half of the households in France are heated with electricity. There are not even fireplace systems there that would enable other heating systems to be installed. There's enough work. Austria has a lot to offer in the field of renewable technology. Offer this throughout Europe! You don't need to do much in Austria in the next few weeks, but set up an international initiative. – We are happy to support you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e5962	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the table. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e5990	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! It is very painful to get these pictures from Japan delivered to the house on a daily basis via the television screen – first of all those of the tsunami, then of the earthquake, the many thousand people who have lost their lives, and then the disaster in this nuclear power plant in Fukushima, in which – Mrs Glawischnig mentioned it before – 50 workers are currently heroically fighting against the absolute super-GAU happening there. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Really sad! You're right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's why we also have lobbyists like the Strasser!]] It is, as I say, once again to express our compassion and support to the people there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] We can all be grateful to each other only to that generation – many of them have already experienced it at the time – which in 1978 made the decision not to put a built-in nuclear power plant into operation at the last moment, because, after the population had been switched on, people have said by a small majority, but still: No, we do not want this technology in Austria; it is not sure, it is also not sustainable in terms of costs and others. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's been a long time!]] The fact is: Today we must all thank each other for this generation of politicians and also the rest of the population very much for this courageous decision at the time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: So you can also ask complex questions of the population to decide!]] In view of this disaster today, it is really not the time and not the place to change party-political change. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: I'm sure only you can do that!]] [[Abg. New builder: Where then?]] Unfortunately, this also sounds true again and again in some speeches and, above all, in some calls. Just a word to our representative and former Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. Who, if not he, has not just supported an anti-atomic policy, but has worked, which has finally brought us safety standards for nuclear power plants throughout Europe? [[fierce calls for greens and FPÖs]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's a joke!]] He has fought with unprecedented commitment to improving safety at Temelín and has also enforced it with the Milker Agreement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's incredible!]] [[New fierce calls for Greens and FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] As Federal Chancellor, he has caused the closure of three nuclear power plants. It is due, among other things, to his initiative that Kosloduj, Ignalina and Bohunice were closed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: The Milker Agreement is not even... Fetzen Paper...!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is unbearable!]] [[Further calls to FPÖ and Greens.]] Wolfgang Schüssel was a member of the IAEA Advisory Board a few years ago, where he discussed the future of the IAEA and also the future of nuclear power. [[Abg. May. Honey: How much do you get paid for this speech?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: In front of headlessness...!]] He was there the critical voice which appears in the final report also with a minority vote, and he clearly pointed out that we, Austria – in this case mentioned by him – are quite clearly opposed to the use of nuclear energy. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true at all!]] – This is credible anti-atomic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and Greens and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one more word: Yes, Wolfgang Schüssel is a member of the Supervisory Board of RWE. RWE also operates nuclear power plants, like many other energy suppliers in Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek shows the five fingers of one hand.]] RWE is also co-owner of KELAG Carinthia. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right, we were against that anyway!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] I think being a member of this Supervisory Board – who sold it – does not want to debate it now means, among other things, the representation of Austrian interests in this owner company. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Violent calls for greens and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But inside...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you are at least willing to discuss on the basis of facts and to note that RWE is also €1.5 billion in renewable energy and its development. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... get out of Parliament!]] – This too is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls for Greens and FPÖ.]] And last but not least for membership in this Supervisory Board...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e6330	Mr Klubobmann, excuse me for a second. Ladies and gentlemen, I can really ask you for a little more discipline. We did not talk about this in detail until the Presidium. Intervocations are necessary, are permitted, but not in permanence, so that one hears neither the speaker nor the calls. Ladies and gentlemen, I demand this discipline from you. Mr Klubobmann, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e6373	Ladies and gentlemen, last point on this causa: Please note, on the basis of facts, that Wolfgang Schüssel is a member of the Supervisory Board of a company that has already decided to withdraw from this form of energy and has also prepared or has already done part of it. – These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it seems to you that it is preferable to change party-political change than to take note of facts. [[Abg. Kickl: That's the big money!]] We should agree on the following: Fukushima and the former Chernobyl are symbols of an error in energy policy worldwide, of which Austria has adopted itself as one of a few countries from the outset or which it has not at all taken. It is sad – really sad – that we must recognize this mistake in this way. Not even now – and this is still saddened by the whole thing – everyone realizes that this was a mistake. But this can only strengthen us in this – the Federal Chancellor has mentioned it before –: Let's not make ourselves small, but let's make ourselves strong together by using our credible policy and our credible position to convince the other step step by step – with persistence, sometimes also in a fight like windmills – that this is a mistake and that this mistake must not continue, but must be corrected. – This is the right policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: (a sticker with the label “Rous aus EURATOM” in the height) That's the truth! You don't have any courage to do that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are doing a lot of things to confirm this path just in these hours. This morning, the Federal Government decided on an action plan in the form of a Council of Ministers presentation, with a number of very concrete projects, such as a stress test for the nuclear power plants in operation. Don't make fun of that! It is a huge breakthrough at European level that one confesses to make these stress tests because they are the first step, the presentation of the dangers per single nuclear power station. [[Call the Greens: That's normal!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Stop! That's normal!]] They are the first step in being able to get out of this energy, as well as in the case of those most dangerous power plants, first. [[Abg. New builder: That's not true!]] This is the right, serious way, and not the one you are promoting, only on the basis of polemics and populism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: What is that, a stress test?]] One last, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, we must also do more nationally, in our own country. Although we are already at the top of Europe in terms of energy efficiency, with regard to the use of renewable energy, we can do even more, and we will do so over the next few months and years. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: A test for Mr. Schüssel!]] This is part of a motion for a resolution that we will present to you following this debate on the decision-making process, and that is also part of the strategy already commissioned by the Federal Government itself: Exit from nuclear energy worldwide, progress with a good example, and make Austria energy self-autarch through the increased use of renewable energy sources. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Clean your own party once!]] This is credible anti-atomic policy, as we, the two government parties, and above all the ÖVP, will also operate in Austria in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e6548	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e6571	Madam President. Mr Kopf, if, for example, you have spoken about populism and political change, I shall tell you quite clearly: This is the place! The High House, Parliament is the site of political discourse. We are not allowed by you to forbid which policy we have to represent here. We represent the politics of the people. This is where the people speak. The people are speaking here, and we are not guided by an ÖVP, which political argument we have to make here. [[It was in favour of BZÖ as well as of representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] There would have been a sentence in your speech, Mr Kopf, namely that you say that your colleague Schüssel is now the new self-proclaimed speaker for renewable energy in Europe. That would have been missing – only that is the white cynicism that speaks out of you, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[I should like to congratulate the BZÖ and the Greens.]] If we're at cynicism right now, Mr Kopf, that's a good thing. Their counterpart, Mr Cap, has already taken part in the referendum in 1978. – Only to clarify and clarify, especially to young students who may not or may not know: In 1978, the Austrian population clearly opposed the unlocking of the only Austrian nuclear power plant – Zwentendorf – which was then built without the involvement of the people by the socialist German Chancellor Kreisky. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] What we heard today is a distance from your own party president, whom you praised a few weeks ago. And that's moral ruin. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to suspect anyone who is pursuing this debate from home today if the appetite is passed on to him in the face of how politics in our country turns and winds and does not bring things to the fore. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, from the dramatic consequences of the greatest natural disaster of all time that has taken place in Japan, there is only an overall and correct conclusion, which is: Exit from nuclear energy, stop nuclear energy – worldwide! That must be the goal. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Nuclear energy is uncontrollable, and nuclear energy, ladies and gentlemen, is the systematic play of the destruction of humanity globally, and this is quite clear. To blame for the introduction and expansion of nuclear energy, of course, is politics, the governments are carrying it around the world, that is perfectly clear. They ultimately make decisions, and they are the ones who also have the responsibility to do so. If you have something to do with youth, the next generations and the future, then there is only one goal, namely the exit – the final exit! – from nuclear energy, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] We need to use this time window actively now. We must take seriously the fears of the people, the fears of the population. People have a right to finally perceive and take their fears seriously, ladies and gentlemen, for any other decision would be negligent to humanity and to the next generations, who today cannot agree, but who will have to bathe out all this in the coming decades, centuries, even millenniums, which is currently breaking down on us in natural disasters. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is the duty of the hour not to make lip confessions, as the Federal Government has once again done, but finally to take effective measures by vetoing at European level. This would once be an effective weapon against the nuclear lobbyists of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, instead of you always leaning back and condescending statements. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Here in Austria we always hear great sounds from all those sitting on the government bank, but in Brussels you enter and go under the carpet. There, only mischievous and petty and treacherous politics is pursued. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: And it's paid, obviously!]] This has also been expressed in the formulations you have supported, which you have decided. There you can read: “The longer-term future must also be prepared through the development of the next generation’s nuclear fission systems.” – Gouted by the Federal Government! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Agreed! As President-in-Office of the Council, 2006!]] [[Members of the Greens point towards ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Agreed! Don't shake your head!]] It goes on to say: “The EU must continue to be the world leader in the development of systems for safe nuclear power [...].” – Gouted by the Federal Government. [[Calls to the Greens.]] It is also to be read: “All these measures should enable the EU to contribute [...] to the responsible use of nuclear energy worldwide.” – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is a commitment to nuclear energy! Say goodbye! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Put in a veto, or cut the EU contribution payments to Brussels, ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly the lying diplomatic spirit that people in our country are filling: that they are constantly being carried around at the nose, that they are lying and that they basically have no real representation of their problems and fears. Mr Agriculture Minister and Minister for the Environment, your stress test is a pure placebo! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] There will be the only stress for the officials. Officials are being stressed at the administration because they have to search through protocols and unfold paper wars. They get a stress, but they don't get a fundamental statement about the safety of any nuclear power station, my dear ladies and gentlemen! [[I should like to congratulate the BZÖ and the Greens.]] Tell me how you want to simulate an earthquake! That's incredible what you're giving of yourself. This is delaying tactics, which is a sedative game and will not help us to get out of here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: fog!]] One can only be credible if one makes credible policy in one's own home. It is not enough that we do not have a nuclear power plant, but we must also ensure that we do not continue to carry this 15 percent nuclear power in the future. We must ensure that nuclear lobbyists do not find a place in a parliament, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This is the strategy that needs to be pursued in the future. [[BZÖ and accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] That the ÖVP is a lobbyist party, we do not even know since the case of Grasser, ladies and gentlemen. There is a real system in progress, these are the actual “Dancing Stars” that dance the “Tango Korrupti”. We've heard this, Molterer at Voest, I don't have to explain the case of Grasser: All the network of the ÖVP! Mr Plassnik is following a certain smoke call. Keywords: Private lobbying agency “Public Interest”. A certain Hubert Pirker follows Mr Strasser. – Yes, the Internet is a treacherous archive, and if you browse the Internet according to Mr Hubert Pirker, a Carinthian, you will be able to read that until recently, until a few hours ago, he was the owner of “EU TRICONSULT”. There was to read: We will provide you with “contacts with decision-makers and legislators at European level.” [[Oh, call at BZÖ.]] “In addition, with early information on EU projects, we ensure a knowledge gap for your company.” – Quotes. That's cynicism! This is lobbyism! That's ÖVP! And that must be fought, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We from the BZÖ have presented a detailed programme or package of measures, such as how we create the exit from nuclear energy across Europe, how we create Europe-wide independence in energy policy. There are a number of measures. But it is important, ladies and gentlemen, to get out of Euratom, this €40 million, which is available to use in Austria, to create jobs in the context of renewable energy measures. We say: Enough paid for the European nuclear lobby! [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, must be the conclusion from the crisis in Japan! Nothing else can be the policy of the future, and no other way can it ensure that there is no nuclear energy anymore, and no other can we show that the future, the next generations are at our heart than that we politicians now perceive this mood, correctly understand and correctly interpret it and finally get on the pedal and not on the brake as our federal government does!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e6774	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Mitterlehner, is speaking. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes according to the agreement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e6795	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher, I was in Brussels yesterday, and I did not get there under the carpet, but like all other members of the government at any time on the carpet, and I can tell you: We always have – always! – brought in the Austrian interests and a clear Austrian line on nuclear policy! Always and clear! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Only: Before all of you blow up your shoes here, I'd like to tell you: It is nice to have a uniform opinion here, and I really brought with Verve the Austrian position on exit from nuclear energy in Brussels yesterday in the Energy Council. Do you know what the response of 27 states was? – 26 others have not even mentioned the word “outing”! [[Abg. Bucher: Insert a veto!]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: You may like it and many won't like it, but in the final effect I can't force the opinions of others. [[Abg. Booker: Oh yes! Veto-Keule!]] And if you say, Put a veto in! – Mr Bucher, excuse me, but how can I put a veto against existing nuclear power plants? [[Abg. Blow: cease payments!]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: Start with this!]] Do you think someone's going here tomorrow and locked up?- Oh, my God! Do you think it is technically feasible to switch this off from today to tomorrow – at 143 nuclear power plants in Europe, which supply 30 percent electricity?- Oh, my God! And so that we can understand each other correctly: I support the Austrian opinion! But I'm still a realist and I have to see: What do we have for a contract constellation? What kind of technical concentration and situation do we have? And in this context you have to act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler, what is being said here again and again on Austrian positions has been torn from the context. We have already discussed this in the Subcommittee, and I must say: It was wrong! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Well, it's some of the other things wrong, too. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You voted! That's proveable!]] I would like to say one thing to the so-called stress tests: You shouldn't underestimate the stress tests! If they are the same as they would have liked nuclear energy, then that is – you are right, Mrs Glavischnig – a wrong matter. If it is the way Niki Berlakovich has proposed and we too yesterday that the rules must be clear in advance that they must be binding and that this must be implemented neutrally, then this is quite another thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The representatives from France and the other EU countries did not enjoy the word “stress test” yesterday, because that implies that this is a dangerous matter, and much more. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: What we can do is to pursue the following strategy: At European level – and I note that we now have a window that is open there, probably only a short time, because at some point one stumps off – we can all contribute to the change of opinion in Parliament, in the respective organisations. Otherwise we won't have a chance if we don't have this support. At this point, it is also a word about what is being repeatedly addressed here, namely to the 6 per cent electricity from nuclear energy imported from Austria: [[Abg. May. Brunner: 15 percent!]] We will set up a measure in this context tomorrow and introduce a new eco electricity law. This will result in a much larger share of renewable energy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Because you, Mrs Glawischnig, have addressed the costs and said that industry and consumers will complain – I mean, perhaps not under the impression of Fukushima – I would like to say: That's just the one side! The other side is the: They were always against projects of renewable energy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wöger: Lambach!]] Recently in the “Report” programme, I have unfortunately not included the list, now already: Tauernbach, Raneburg, Stadl-Paura. [[Call the ÖVP:Lambach!]] At five wind farms, all of your organizations were opposed. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Not every citizen's initiative is by the Greens!]] No, you like things that way, and you can't influence them everywhere, that's clear. But if we already want renewable energy, ladies and gentlemen, then we have to confess on the one hand to the investments for it and on the other hand to the costs it entails. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am already taking your vote in favour of the proposed measures. It will be a good thing with the new eco electricity law. In conclusion, from my point of view: We have a great Austrian energy strategy that is right! We only need to implement them more intensively in terms of efficiency and renewable energy sources. I can only join the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: To be with each other and to be stronger – and not so that we only accuse each other of each other, that would have been wrong, which the government should have done differently. A clear, uniform line – as it did from every government that worked over all these years!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7013	Ladies and gentlemen, I would draw attention to the fact that the remaining speaking time per group is 18 minutes, so that you can make your assignments in the light of advanced times. The next item is the speech by Mr Katzian. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7038	Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank all those who have put at the centre of their reflections those who are at the moment trying to keep the entire “works” in Fukushima running somehow and to prevent the worst. These 50 workers are practically the leader of what is involved in a lack of energy policy, in a failed nuclear policy. Thanks also to them because probably many or even all of these affected workers will pay this stake with their lives. And their families, as has already been pointed out, are heavily affected. Many Austrian institutions have launched calls for donations, and I think it is important that, in addition to the official measures that are being put in place internationally, efforts are also being made to help especially those people in the areas directly affected. Several Austrian trade unions have also called for donations. We are in contact with the trade unions in Japan and will ensure that the money that comes from it comes even where they are necessary, in the northern regions. I would like to thank all those who are here to help people on the spot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it does not matter when individuals try to create an artificial conflict. I think we all agree: The production of nuclear energy is a technology that cannot be controlled. The final storage is still not solved. There are high risks, and they show themselves in dramatic form. No one here wants a rethinking of Austrian nuclear policy, quite the contrary: I think everyone here is clear and everyone agrees: Nuclear energy is not the future of energy policy in Austria! Nuclear energy must not be the future of energy policy in Europe! It is therefore absolutely clear that we must do everything we can to achieve an exit from nuclear energy in Europe and worldwide. That's the hour's commandment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think we have to go there on two levels: One level is the European and the international level, and the other level is the national level where we can take action ourselves in Austria. As we heard from the Minister for Economic Affairs last night, the situation within the European Union, as it presented itself in Brussels yesterday, is obvious that there is no political will at the moment for the majority of EU countries to get out of nuclear power. And if the majority of the EU states do not go in this direction to the political will of the rulers, but we still want something to change in Europe's energy policy, then we must do everything we can to ensure that people in these countries themselves show their rulers that this is the wrong way. That is why, I believe, it is a more rewarding, courageous and important attempt to launch a European citizens' initiative, with the aim of mobilising people in these states, with the population of these countries, which, from our point of view, have a false energy policy. I mean, that's a very supportive way. If we all make our contribution to the participation of as many people as possible in this European citizens' initiative, it should come about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have to admit, I'm not happy about the word stress test either, because you can interpret so much in there, and that almost opens the door and gate to putting it a little bit into the ridiculous. [[Abg. Höfinger: Say a better expression!]] But from the point of view of content, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is clear what it is all about. If it is obvious that we are not going from today to tomorrow to the end of nuclear energy, then we have the obligation of the population in Austria to ensure that the nuclear power plants currently in operation are strictly reviewed, not according to the requirements of the nuclear lobby, but according to the specifications defined previously, and they must be complied with by all. Everyone is obliged to review, which cannot take place voluntarily, where everyone can choose: Am I doing it or am I not? And if a nuclear power station clearly finds out that it's almost a scrap, which is a danger – and we have a lot of clues and advice that this is the case – then it must be clear that it's off-line. This must have consequences: Such nuclear power plants belong to the network removed and shut down. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For us, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear: We must continue to focus on security of supply. It's about liquefied energy. We have always known how to take steps against energy poverty. I strongly support putting the priorities of our parliamentary work towards energy efficiency in the near future. Energy efficiency is the biggest power plant we have. I repeat what I have said several times here: We need a national energy efficiency law in Austria. We received an energy efficiency plan from the EU Commission two weeks ago. This should give us the right backwind to be able to implement it. This step in conjunction with the priorities: more renewable energy and new eco-strom legislation, which have already been addressed, is, I believe, a step in the right direction that we need to go in the near future. However, I would like to make one last comment: Because I believe that we need Austrian property, public ownership in the energy industry in the future, if we want to meet certain requirements and go certain ways in energy policy, I think it is counterproductive when, in today’s issue of the “EconomicsBlatt” newspaper, the Vienna Stock Exchange once again advertises the privatizations as the salvation of the world. At least as far as the energy sector is concerned, there will be no further privatisations with social democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7107	Mr Bartenstein has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7129	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! 26 : 1 was the case, the Minister of Energy reported from yesterday's Energy Council. Now it may be that these 26 would not be entirely against any kind of exit from nuclear energy, but yesterday they did not say it the other way around. It may also be that these are the energy ministers who have a certain “bias” and that this sounds a little different elsewhere, for example in the Environment Council, Niki Berlakovich. But one of them tells us: It is good and important for us here to maintain the basic consensus which has been in place since 1978 and to maintain the use of nuclear power in Austria and elsewhere, if we also defend this principle today, if we renew this principle! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But as long as we are not able to bring forward my honourable ladies and gentlemen in Brussels, as long as we are not able to make this a majority vote – or if we start small, we are looking for allies!; that's not so easy! – as long as this does not help, nor where we are a country that does not benefit the nuclear power, as decided in 1978, and everyone else knows that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What have you done for the last ten years? “Let’s start!” Now I’m getting a lot of stress!]] Therefore: A mistake should not and should not be made in the European Union, namely to be isolated or to remain isolated. [[Abg. Dr Glavischnig-Piesczek: A stack of motions for resolutions has been tabled in Parliament!]] You, Mrs Glawischnig, have a few weeks ago in the discussion and in the debate in Euratom – do you know how popular desire then turned out?; this should also be a warning signal! – said Austria was completely isolated in terms of nuclear power in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, but for you! That's unfair!]] Here I am entirely of your opinion, with the exception: We're isolated! We may now be able to open up new opportunities to us Fukushima and the related drama and this disaster, but let us take this into consideration with an eye, not with foam in front of the mouth like you, dear Mrs Glavischnig. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: With commitment!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Hey! That's incredible!]] Right to have, ladies and gentlemen, is sometimes painful. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] With this disaster in Fukushima, we have finally got a piece of justice, but this does not justify us for a long time to the extent of self-righteousness that you, Mrs Glawischnig, have shown over and over again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Don't worry about it. Let us hope together that the renaissance of nuclear power, which in recent years has unmistakably moved across this world, or which has come to, can now be interrupted, that perhaps a new age occurs here, which allows a step-by-step exit from nuclear power and allows for an increased entry into renewable energy sources. But let's keep in mind: The five-party consensus here in the house is good and important, but it's not very much in Brussels yet! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is so that the exit from nuclear energy is possible, technically possible – not from today to tomorrow, in France and elsewhere at all, but from today to the day it is possible. Did you know, by the way, that red-greens in Germany have set up their exit scenario per 2022? Did you know that after the red-green scenario, a single nuclear power plant would have been removed from the grid? Now it's seven! That too, to make the facts straight. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What about seven of them being removed from the net?]] But how much share of international energy consumption does nuclear power actually have? – If you ask yourself, people think it's 30, 40, 50 percent. It's all 6 percent worldwide! And the International Energy Agency said that in the event of an accelerated expansion of nuclear power – and that was still before Fukushima – it would be 8 percent by the year 2035. So 92.94 percent are not nuclear power. These are opportunities that we have to put on, and these are finally scenarios that make me confident: that if you want – you don't want anywhere yet – that is to be done. Hand at heart: We Austrians can say quite strongly with our hydropower, with our high share of renewable energy sources: We do it with energy efficiency, we build some gas turbine! Hopefully, we will finally really expand the hydropower a bit further, according to the Master Plan 2007. It may be different in China and India. There, it is likely that gas and coal will come a bit far in place of nuclear power, and this, of course, must also be a signal to us in terms of climate protection. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, credibility is an important thing. Mr Bucher has done this. Belief is something that is indispensable in politics. And that's where we have to let a little bit of the mirror stand. That's what Muhammad el-Baradei and others have done in recent weeks. What about ourselves? – Yes, we do not use nuclear power in the sense of holding a nuclear power plant, but we use nuclear power, according to our calculations 5 to 6 percent, according to others it is said to be 15 percent; I believe in our figures. 5 to 6 percent, but still 5 to 6 percent too much! That is why, and this is precisely the address of the Greens, ladies and gentlemen, [[Abg. Olympians: Ah, you hypocrites!]] If you say no to nuclear power, then you already have to say yes not only to saving electricity, also good, eaten, then you already have to say yes to a forced expansion of hydropower. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Not at all ate anything!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then you have to do it too. Yes, say to other plants that concern renewable energy. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How many plants did Anschober in Upper Austria approve?]] Mitterlehner has kept the mirror in front of you and has shown you where in Austria you block projects: Hydropower, for example, in the south of Graz. It's the question where you say no everywhere. Who in this country No to the nuclear power says that to maintain credibility, it must also be In terms of hydropower and new grids, say – even that one needs to transport eco electricity – he must also say yes to other plants that generate renewable energy, because all this is not so pleasant. If you are here in the plenary session of the National Council, although you are giving fine Sunday speeches, but then always supporting the citizens' initiatives that are counter-attractive, this will not help us, ladies and gentlemen, any further. So this piece of credibility is at stake for us these days, weeks, months. Let us increase our own credibility by at least gradually reducing nuclear imports, and let us be realistic! Let's go with measure! There is a chance to break this renaissance of nuclear power, but not from today on to tomorrow. We are looking for allies in Europe! I believe that the Federal Government is on the right path, Mitterlehner yesterday and you, Mr Bundeskanzler, then at the European Council on the weekend, as I hope. If you're going to argue as strongly as you do today in the National Council, I assume.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7309	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7331	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I think it hurts the Greens if they are presented with their own inconsistency, which is really far-reaching in the question of hydropower. [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] It is also a legitimate thing to agree with the ÖVP. However, the ÖVP is not acceptable if it is tried to make its own inconsistency in the matter of anti-atomic struggle, so to speak, better than it actually does. And you have a long lattice of failure to answer, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that we all agree here that the concern about the events in Japan, which have largely sprung the dimension of what has so far been accessible to us, must not be overlooked by anyone, that is, the responsibility given here and now on the side of this federal government and also on the sides of this House, and as it has been strongly neglected in the past in the so-called struggle against nuclear power. You will not lead us to address you here and today, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, with Glacé gloves, just because the concern of Japan is in the room. This is a matter of concern, but it is a task for us to speak plain text to you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How important this concern is to you is anti-atomic power, which alone shows the fact that you have needed the instigation of the FPÖ and the opposition parties until three government representatives produce themselves here at all and make something similar to a statement. I am not yet talking about the content of this statement – it will still be particularly worthy of it – but only the fact that it is not important enough for you yourself to create such an event, shows that you have to get into this fight that you are supposed to pursue offensively, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The crucial point is – and this is not only what we are seeing, but also many ladies and gentlemen, who are probably in front of the TV station today. This debate is followed – as is the relationship between what you are giving in these statements and what you are doing in daily political practice, whether it be here, in dealing with popular desire or at the European level. How do you shape this relationship, ladies and gentlemen? If you look at that, you can only come to the only result that is allowed: They are from SPÖ and ÖVP, and the Greens are unfortunately in some areas with them, have cast themselves on the side of Brussels. You've been throwing yourself on the side of the Atom Lobbys for a long time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are saying that in some areas you are fanatical supporters of this European Union in exactly this misconstructed form. In these areas, you don't say that loud. You're hiding it, you're spreading the famous Tuchent about it. They propagate these things through the back door, quietly and secretly, and this is the disgrace of it, ladies and gentlemen, which you have to blame. 1995: SPÖ and ÖVP are accumulating the healing world to the Austrians when they join the European Union. The Euratom Treaty is included in this accession backpack. In 1995, you knew exactly what you were getting involved in, and I am trying to say that it was not the only cuckoo that you have put on the Austrians, monetary union. They would have had time to think, to become obviously smarter. But if you look at the results, if you hear how the voting behaviour was in Brussels – namely, 26 against 1, then I have to say that your argument is not striking, too, that you say that we have to be in this European association so that we can change something there. You have obviously not changed anything since 1995! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In April 2008 you would have had the next chance: Treaty of Lisbon. The representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP and also the Greens have whipped this treaty behind the back of the Austrian population in here. With the small print, the Euratom Treaty is again with a clear commitment to the development of a powerful nuclear industry in Europe. That's the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Yeah, I think that hurts you. This is the next form of your inconsistency, ladies and gentlemen: to defuse the hydropower and at the same time to be with the preparation of Euratom. There the Greens are highly unbelievable. I say to you that the disgrace on this question is that, in reality, under the cover of increasing security – a security we know that there is no such thing – these funds are used to extend the duration of these scrap tractors and these ticking nuclear time bombs in the immediate vicinity of the border. That is the disgrace in this approach! So stop with Euratom and say that we use the €40 million a year to increase security. This is about the same as when Mr Strasser sits down and says that he has only been fed with a few hundred thousand euros to fight corruption. The argumentation pattern, ladies and gentlemen, is one and the same. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, allow me to say one more word about this EU popular desire, about this EU citizens' initiative, with which you now come. This is the path that the European Union has taken with this stress test-smear, based on the bank stress test-smear, where we already know that everything can be done in such a way that nothing can be done under the rule. Ver Why don't you just take all of this! And the Austrian version, that is now this new popular desire. Let us put aside the fact that it is just too grotesque when Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, who locks out the population in his own country from any direct democratic decision – and now I only mention a few words: EU Constitution, the Euro Rescue Screen – and everything is doing to prevent citizens from participating, now calling for the Europe-wide fight against the system. That's where you have to laugh yourself, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's put it aside, but you probably already forgot that you have already promised such a popular desire, another, to the financial and transaction tax. Skill You remember? He has already forgotten that again, knowing that he can do anything from April of next year. This is the strategy of pushing forward to the long bank, ladies and gentlemen. It's up to you. You know very well – and therefore the Austrian population will not go on the glue – that this instrument, which you are now trying to sell to people as a dreamer, is really the next toothless tiger. No one in Europe is bound by what comes out of such a popular desire for such a citizens' initiative – and not the European Commission at all. You, ladies and gentlemen, make people hope, where exactly people of your beat are those who then destroy this hope in their political decisions in the relevant bodies. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A final sentence. In the last few days, it has been a great deal of talk about the word “GAU” as the greatest likely accident. In connection with the so-called anti-atomic policy of this federal government, GAU means the greatest possible plausible dishonesty.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7482	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7503	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It was your wish to make a so-called national shoulder clasp here or, in the worst case, to celebrate. This would have at least a few prerequisites. I understand, we must not give the impression before the Austrian population that this is a mere hack, but of course there are differences in the approach and possibly also in the perspective where the trip goes. But there are certainly differences in the view that when we have to take what step we have to take, at least what steps have been missed when it comes to credibility. At the referendum on Zwentendorf in November 1978, I was almost 17 years old. There's no greens yet. But it was so that, in addition to a few other crucial influences, this was the core of the Greens, and still the clear attitude in the energy industry and in the anti-AKW question, in addition to some other important issues, is a very essential thing to date. [[Abg. Kickl: With the hydropower you will have to rethink!]] This applies not only to the Austrian Greens, but also to all the sister parties throughout Europe. All European Green Parties are clearly on the road on this issue. Unfortunately, I am not going to blame you for this at this point. That is to say, for most previous speakers or for you, still valued representatives of the government, there is enough to do in your own party family in Europe. There's enough to do. That is why I am saying this because it is a question of attitude, of backbone and of credibility. On this issue, we are certainly making use of this, even if it is being cracked around in between. It just can't be. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the big questions of this debate are of course a figure where perhaps more courage is needed than to meet each other within Austria on weekdays with Sunday speeches. This is, of course, a hard discussion with the most powerful industries in the world, of course! It's about an entire lie building that was finally built by a military-industrial nuclear complex. That's a big fight, that's right. These lies are our task, and then also in these countries the opportunity to break through this 26 : 1. Yes, we take it from the Minister for Economic Affairs as he described it. But this is just what makes us have to do differently. However, this is precisely the reason why we need to allied there, also with the anti-CFC movements in Slovenia, in Germany, in France, and indeed everywhere – which is why credibility here is so important – against the governments there. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] It is not enough just to slip around on the diplomatic parquet and to explain here in Parliament, there is nothing going on, it says 26 : 1. With this attitude, we would not have achieved anything in Austria either. There were many of your predecessors here on the other side, while we were already on the right side. You don't get along with the attitude. That is why it is a very serious question of attitude and conviction. There's something you can cut off. We also like to let ourselves be cut out in this matter if you just follow the right path, which is not always guaranteed. That is why it is not a question of whether or not an AFC lobbyist is sitting in this Parliament. It's not meat! In Mr Bartenstein's speech, the impression was that you can see how it works. Mr Schüssel, who, as the RWE Supervisory Board, is earning more money than a Member here – it's just a matter of relation! ., is going to eat with Mr Bartenstein, and then a speech comes out where Mrs. Glavischnig is shocked to have such a credible attitude here. So this should be your shoulder closure?- Oh, my God! – Shame of the ÖVP at least once! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's not credible! That's exactly the difference! We do not need such an shoulder closure, nor is it any of the crucial questions of the border-related nuclear power stations which can be switched off immediately if they are part of the risk reactors. There are some. Which are these? – Either it’s boiling water reactors, or they don’t have a containment, or they’re too long in operation with many incidents, or they’re on an earthquake line like Krško, the most vulnerable nuclear power plant in Europe due to earthquakes. Do you know what the director of this Krajnc power plant said in an up-to-date interview to read today? – The safest nuclear power station in the world. That's how it looks! We're dealing with people like that. But the population in Slovenia has long been different, just like those in Germany. Look at the discourse, in the “Mirror, ” in the“ Time ” and elsewhere! Even in France, we currently have 70 percent CFC opponents, and this time window is to be used. That is why the Federal Government must also act and demand referendums and the rapid shutdown of risk reactors in these countries. That you can't get out with all the cars overnight, that's quite clear. That is why we have made a list of the reactors that are part of the risk reactors and which one must remove from the grid by 2020/2025. We're not naïve. The naïveness lies with you if you believe that you can bring something forward with a little diplomatic appearance on this question. In this question, you can believe that only the unconditional struggle helps, otherwise there never goes anything further. But it's okay! It is against the population in Europe. The majority in Europe is against nuclear power stations. So you have to sit there, and there you have to carry something on. We will make our contribution with our allies. That's why people can rely on us, and you shouldn't stand back. We will support you where you go in the right direction, but we will fight you where you continue to play wrong, which is part of it. You're gonna have to let that happen. Finally, it will be a matter of making a credible policy in Austria at last. Yes, indeed. Where's that to find? – This is where we really need to get out of Euratom, and we need – hydropower to or from here – an eco electricity law that deserves this name. For ten years, this has been sluggished and plyed. That's what every expert says. It is your responsibility that we – by the way with two-thirds majority – have a “eco dead law” and no eco electricity law. If this doesn't change over the next few weeks, you don't have to hit shawls here anymore. That's the white truth. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I am now putting in two applications to help your credibility test get something on top of the jumps. A stress test would be necessary for over-needed federal governments and not for the nuclear power stations there, because this is a self-test, you can forget. I even think it's a cleaner that you're giving yourself up for something like that. But be it. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] Now the two applications: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second resolution refers to the risk reactors. motion for a resolution by Mr Kogler, Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mr Brunner, and others, on 'Offensive shut-off now! – against cross-border risk nuclear power plants’ The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, as well as the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth, are invited to launch a diplomatic offensive without delay with the aim of rapidly and irrevocably shutting down all border-related risk reactors, as well as ending and ending or reversing. Take back existing expansion plans.” Accept! Then we have our shoulder clasp for me, then you're on the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7602	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7758	Next speaker: Deputies Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7780	Madam President. High house! I have today expected a great statement from this Federal Government, and that concrete action will really be taken. And what do I get? – Beautiful words, which have been known for ten years, and the so-called stress test, which should actually be a matter of course for nuclear power plants, which is likely to be carried out by the nuclear companies themselves. That's about as if the ÖVP would suggest that the drivers in the future do the car pickerl themselves and then continue by car. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is, this stress test is de facto not worth anything. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] More information is not known. The only thing we can recommend to this government is that it really thinks about it and finally does it. – The population demands that! I am beginning with a quote from a concerned citizen, who today is in front of Parliament in the protest action of the NGOs. She writes: First: President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Secondly, Finally, do something against the nuclear power plants, the ticking time bombs around Austria! That, Minister, is the key word: do something – not only speak beautifully, but also do something – against the nuclear power around Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You don't need any more referendums. We clearly demonstrated this in Upper Austria. Environmental councillor Ursula Haubner then initiated the anti-Temelín people's desire. The effect was about 915,000 signatures in no time. At that time, under black and blue/orange – however – we also moved something, and we did the milking process. However, the implementation of the milk process was another thing. But others were also responsible for this. I would also like to talk a little bit about the role of the Greens. If you are repeatedly opposed to nuclear power by the Greens, but at the same time are against hydroelectric power plants, are against wind power stations, are against the necessary pipe construction to be able to operate, in conjunction with renewable energies, even hydropower plants, then you are actually unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This also reflects the political image. Today's surveys show that the credibility of this government, the politicians, is generally declining. Surveys also show that the time window is not used by this government, because 80 percent of people feel – this is a market survey – that one will not make the exit from nuclear power on the sides of this federal government. The fact is, however, that the nuclear power is unsafe, it is not controllable. This is shown by the high-tech power plants of Fukushima. And these also show the following: The nuclear power plants are uneconomic, because there are costs that the public has to pay – let us think of nuclear transport, let us think of the question of final storage, let us think of subsidisation. That is, in fact, the profits of nuclear power plants are privatized, the losses or the high costs are state subsidized. Therefore, it is important to use the time window, because 13 percent of the electricity is generated from nuclear power worldwide, and only 6 percent of the total energy comes from nuclear power. We from the BZÖ have therefore, because we knew that this government is not bringing together anything substantial for the exit from nuclear power, and I would ask you to present a request which I, Madam President, have already been distributed and which I may briefly explain in the broad guidelines. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is about implementing energy autarchy in Austria in the medium term. This is feasible – with biomass, with hydropower, with wind energy, with solar energy and photovoltaics, with geothermal energy, and also the aspects of electromobility and thermal renovation have been addressed here. The only problem is that, although this government has an energy concept in 2020, it does not have a concrete timetable and no money for it, nor does it say what it wants to do when. On the contrary, and I am already excited, Minister of Economic Affairs, because you are responsible for the eco electricity law, which will really stand in it, because the eco electricity law is still an eco electricity prevention law: The photovoltaic is de facto dead, the wind power is standing, nothing happens, and also from the biomass users has already been criticised accordingly. I'm really excited about how that's going to work out. No, on the contrary, you'd rather invest in the renaissance of the gas industry. They're making the gas lobby the wall. This government builds the Nabucco pipeline, where the costs – I have read – have exploded from 4 to over 12 billion €. You're with me! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So: In the short term, out of nuclear power – but right back into the dependence as a gas junkie in Austria, into the gas industry. To that end, we say a clear no from the BZÖ. The Gas Economics Act, which is contained in the draft, speaks volumes in this regard, because it approves transnational lines through Austria in the future – in public interest – tax-free. For this the farmers were expropriated. For this, there are transports that cost nothing – at least 75 billion cubic meters of gas that flow through Austria every year without having to pay a fee. And in return, one does not even support the biogas intake of the farmers in Austria accordingly. No, they have to pay for it. – These are the things we want to change. We also want to address legal aspects in our proposal, which I have discussed briefly, but also other matters. It is about the extension of the duration of the German power plants. It's a nuclear import ban. It is about suing EU infringement procedures, as they would be possible, for the extension of the term, for Mochovce, Block 3 and Block 4, or for Temelín regarding the implementation of an EU-compliant EIA procedure. But you haven't done anything to date, although you knew that these possibilities exist. That means, the concept of BZÖ is unfortunately two years old, you have not taken it up until now. It has not been implemented. I am excited to see you break through the current laws, the eco-power law, but also the Gas Economic Act, because this is the test of credibility in order to be able to act against nuclear power in Europe. However, I have a second request prepared, and this request will be exciting. This is the question of illuminating the role of the former Federal Chancellor, but also of the German Chancellor Gusenbauer, from the left, from the SPÖ. I want a committee of inquiry in this House! I want to know: Is the lobbyism of the nuclear industry going right here into the High House, yes or no? And if the SPÖ and the ÖVP speak of transparency and control, then it is likely that approval will be the minimum possible from your side. That means: We want transparency, credibility and security for people in Europe and also in Austria, and therefore the final outcome for nuclear power on this planet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e7920	The motion for a resolution set out in its main guidelines is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e8188	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e8210	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Visitors at home and at the gallery! A bit of a comic image, I think, we can already communicate to the public, if the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, calls you to an shoulder closure, asks for support and refuses parts of the opposition. [[Abg. May. Brunner: We don't make a shoulder closure with the atomic lobby!]] [[Further calls.]] For decades now, we've known that nuclear power is uncontrollable. That means no one can be surprised today. It was my parent generation, but it was also my parents, there were many of those present here, including Chancellor Werner Faymann, but also Alexander Van der Bellen and others, who fought against Zwentendorf at the time and made sure that I and my generation grew up in a non-atomic Austria. [[Abg. Hörl: Against Kreisky!]] [[Abg. Hörl: Against Kreisky!]] Ladies and gentlemen! And so it is today that we no longer see how nuclear reactors are being built in Europe. [[Abg. Kickl:... funding it further!]] Europe and the world must no longer be ruled by nuclear lobbyists. It must no longer be that some to maximize profit, take up disease, poverty and death more innocently. [[Abg. Kickl: What popular desire do you make first?]] Let's look at the figures of sales: RWE – because it has often been mentioned today – has made 53 billion euros in one year alone, E.ON 82 billion €. This is more than the gross domestic product of Luxembourg and Slovenia in common. [[Abg. Kickl: And Siemens?]] And they want to expand, expand and expand. [[Abg. Kickl: Siemens?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Kickl! It is not the time for cynicism and for political change. [[Abg. Kickl: No, that's not cynicism! That's a well-known company! – You are cynical!]] It is now the time to defend itself, to defend ourselves together: against the greed of the atomic lobbys, against those who buy that our children grow up in sickness and poverty. Ladies and gentlemen! And there is a need to launch a common citizens' initiative, a common citizens' movement, because only when we all act together, when we move the Czech population, the Slovenian population, the Croatian population and the German population and all the other people in Europe and the world to fight against the atomic lobbys will we also achieve something – not with your cynicism, but with our fighting spirit! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. That's not even the fact that our own group is claping! – Why can’t the Landesrat Ackerl recognize any talents in you?]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again: There's someone here who's asking you for help. Support us in mobilising the European people! No matter what party book you have, whether you're a politician, whether you're a father or not. Your mother or neighbor are: Help us, help the Austrian government to mobilise the European people in Europe – against the power of the nuclear and financial lobbys! [[Abg. Kickl: And you put in a veto on the weekend!]] Let's put them in their barriers! [[Abg. Kickl: And today you agree to the exit from Euratom!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This means that we can give people back their faith in politics and their effectiveness. [[Abg. Kickl: You should be included in the nuclear lobby!]] To this end, I would like to add another appeal: I believe that all here in the room agree that there are alternatives to nuclear energy and that there must be an exit in Europe. I also believe that everyone – and I agree with everyone – is fighting for a European exit in their own way. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Dear Dr. Schüssel! I'm appealing to You personally: Get out of the RWE Supervisory Board! Put a sign with that too! Put yourself on our side, on the side of the Austrian Parliament, on the side of the European population! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what the coalition partner says?- Oh, my God!]] Decide to give your children moral values, not a fat bank account! Dear Dr. Schüssel! It would be a sign against the nuclear lobby, the greed and the European exit if you, as an Austrian MP, were to follow this appeal. And, again, I confess to you that even you know that an atomic exit is the only variant. My appeal to you: Put the right sign! Stay in the Austrian Parliament and get out of the Supervisory Board of the RWE! Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that as Austria, we will succeed – and I am far more optimistic than some colleagues from the opposition – and I hope and I believe that we can change the world if we mobilise the people. I hope and I believe that if we act together as Austria, we will also have a chance against the atomic lobbys with all their power and all their money. At least an attempt must be worth it! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e8443	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e8464	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Appreciate High House! We agree that nuclear energy is not future energy, and we know very well that we are importing nuclear power in Austria. That cannot be a serious condition! We will all have to think about each other very carefully, as we change our energy system with a strong Austrian citizen movement, so that we no longer need nuclear power imports. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This is the task we have ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to set a strong sign today that works in Austria, because we can change the world because we act ourselves. We want to set a strong sign that works in Europe, because there we can speak for ourselves. Federal Minister Berlakovich has shaped the concept of the “stress test”, he has brought this into the discussion, and we see very clearly that the consequences have. This is criticism that has consequences! And the consequences are: power plants shut down for safety review – and I assume that some are permanently shut down. [[Abg. Kickl: The others are being rebuilt!]] That's an initiative! – A lot of talk has already taken place here, Niki Berlakovich has acted. A big thank you for that! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In the future, we need an energy system that expands our strengths. Our strengths are clear: in the electricity sector the hydropower – more than 60 percent electricity from hydropower –, electricity from biomass, wind energy, photovoltaics can be expanded. Federal Minister Mitterlehner will present an eco electricity law. This eco electricity law will really be a step into the future that is effective. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... don't know yet!]] We know that the Minister of Energy is comprehensively addressing and presenting these issues, and I very much hope that in the discussion on this eco electricity law you will bring all of what you say today to the discussion tomorrow. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Let's look at it,...!]] You will be voting against it again because you have been fighting any future-oriented technology in Austria so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Brunner:... Atom lobby we certainly vote against!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will carry things on in the coalition. It would be nice if the opposition went along, but it is important that citizens go along with it, that the citizens understand where the future path of our energy policy is. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I think you have to go with the citizens, Mr. Cot. It would have failed!]] This path with the citizens is to begin with the motion for a resolution by Mrs Schultes, Mr Katzian, Mr Bartenstein and Mr Gessl-Ranftl, which I am now submitting. We will strengthen important concerns that we are already realizing, and we will make new points. It is about consistently increasing energy efficiency in all key sectors: buildings, households, businesses, transport, primary energy use, waste heat use and so on. We want the energy efficiency targets to become binding at European level, that everyone commits to use energy optimally, not to blow out waste heat, but to really use it. The aim is to increase renewable energy in electricity generation, in the areas of heat, transport, district heating and colds. And it is about giving the EVUs, the electricity trading companies and the manufacturers incentives to abandon nuclear power, not to import it anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: giving incentives? – We can assure you that! They're not private companies, they're public companies!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, many points are included in this proposal. He will be distributed, you will study him, and I hope you will also agree to this request. Ladies and gentlemen, over 300 experts have provided the basis for an energy strategy in Austria in recent years. This energy strategy is a good document and we must implement it. We know we can do a lot in Austria. With regard to the total energy we spend in Austria, 30 percent of the consumption is already covered by renewable energy. We know we have some areas where we want to achieve something. Just think about it: Natural gas is important for everyone, natural gas will become more important. This is particularly a question of efficiency. And if you remember that the transport of natural gas – only transport through Austria! – as much energy as the entire Bundesbahnen needs, then you will understand that efficiency is important. A single compressor station can, when the waste heat is used, supply 30 000 households with electricity. Unfortunately, this only happens to one person, not the other. We will have to solve many questions in the near future, but each one will help. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign to draw attention to the expiry of the speaking time.]] We will create foundations so that individuals can take their measures. I mean, for example, the heating waste pump, which will run now, if it's not so cold anymore. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] For example, I mean standby mode, where we know at home, the power consumption is running, even if the devices are not switched on. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] I know we can all go a lot of ways together. The Austrians are the strongest citizen movement that can turn off the nuclear current. We'll do this together. And I tell you one thing, when I came to the world, nuclear bombs irradiated the world. [[President Neugebauer once again gives the bell sign]] When my son was born, Chernobyl was the problem. Today in the night my granddaughter Klara was born – Fukushima shines. [[Bravoruf at the ÖVP]] The children of Klara will grow up in a nuclear-free future!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e8638	The motion for a resolution set out in its main guidelines, which is, moreover, distributed, is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e8808	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e8829	Mr President. High house! What bothered me, Mr Bundeskanzler, in your speech is the fact that with no syllable, you have mentioned the Krško nuclear power station, which is the only nuclear power plant in a earthquake-hazardous area and in an earthquake-hazardous zone. The Slovenian nuclear power station is located just 100 kilometres away from the Steiermärkische and the Carinthian border, and a nuisance with the withdrawal of radioactivity would produce a radioactive cloud within three hours in immediate proximity to Carinthia and Styria, says the radiation protection officer of the Styria Ewald Plantosar. I would also like to point out: If you are speaking today in the newspaper “ÖsterREICH” about the closing of the Témelín and Mochovce scrap power stations and you want to file a complaint with the European Union, please, Mr Bundeskanzler, estimated representatives of the Federal Government, do not forget the Krško AKW! It has been built in the 1970s and is now as outdated with its technology, an equally dangerous scrap reactor such as Temelín and Mochovce. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, however, is that there have already been numerous incidents in the Krško nuclear power station, and the Republic of Slovenia has announced – and I would like to draw attention to this – that it will take steps to get out of nuclear energy. But exactly the opposite is the case: There are evocative plans and concrete steps, the existing Alt-AKW directly at the Austrian border not to go back, but to expand a reactor block. And you should also draw attention to this, Mr Bundeskanzler, in your protest note to the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Get an expert on advice, the well-known earthquake researcher Helmut Tribusch, who lives in the Canal Valley, in Friuli, where we had to record an earthquake of strength 6 in 1976. They all remember his terrible dimension. The KR Krško nuclear power station is right on this earthquake zone! And Tribüsch, who is a recognized expert as an earthquake researcher, makes it clear that no nuclear power station would survive a force 7 earthquake that, within a very short time, it would also have a direct impact on the safety facilities that are now in Krško, without any risk, affected by numerous incidents. In the Carinthian Landtag, this issue has been discussed, a five-point programme has been adopted jointly by all parties, which I would like to inform you today in the form of a motion for a resolution and in which concrete steps are required by this Federal Government – including your party colleagues in Carinthia. First of all, we call on you to act at European level to ensure that Slovenia's promise to withdraw from nuclear energy production and gradually withdraw and close the Krško nuclear power plant is also respected that this medium-term exit from nuclear energy guaranteed by Slovenia during the accession negotiations is also requested by the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to point out that this is not only about the Krško nuclear power station, but also about a nuclear waste dump that has been built directly on the border with the Styria and Carinthia. And if we demand decommissioning, I would also like to point out that we have to put a junkim in the wake of the EU accession of Croatia, which is 50 percent the owner of this earthquake-hazardous nuclear power station. This is what we demand from the liberals, namely that Croatia's accession negotiations make it mandatory to have the Krško nuclear power station shut down and closed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, Mr Bundeskanzler, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that both Slovenia and Croatia are being offered to be supported with alternative energy from Austria when nuclear energy exits. We have technologies in the solar field, we have technologies in hydropower. That's what we want to offer. Our motion for a resolution is based on the unanimous decision of all parties in the Carinthian Landtag. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would just like to say to Mrs Rudas, who has asked for help here: Shoulder closure – support You have this request from us liberals!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e8931	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9015	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9036	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators here in the house and also at home! I think we all have been following the images of the disaster in Japan on television with horror, and I would like to express my sympathy at this point, my compassion for the victims of the natural disaster in Japan, but also for the victims of the nuclear disaster, which unfortunately is indebted and has nothing to do with natural disasters. If it says now, that's the time to get out of nuclear energy: Yes, but honestly, in such statements I get a bit of anger. I was nine years old when Chernobyl happened. Actually, I think that would have been the case, and I was expected by those responsible in this world to make sure that something like that never happened again. Today, 25 years later, we have to experience the same thing again. That's what I'm asking myself: What's happened lately? There are also young people today who rightly expect that we are finally leaving. I just want to show you a poster that I got in front of the house today: Students wish that we do not have a “bright” future, and I believe that we should all work for it. [[The speaker keeps the addressed poster up to the height on which a boner and the international sign for radioactivity can be seen and read: “I wish you a bright future!”]] [[As a result of the Commission's proposal, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of the measures to be taken by the Member States in order to ensure that the measures are ……]] Minister for Agriculture! Now it also needs concrete action and no no-na knowledge such as: There is no safe storage, and: The liability is not sufficient. We've known this for a long time. In fact, I find it very strange if you are now working for stress tests, where it is clear that nuclear companies, atomic lobbyists are talking there. These are only used for justification or as a basis for further extension of maturity. I would recommend that you take a stress test once for the anti-atomic policy of the ÖVP. And I think I'm the first of the colleague's bowls, because if you pursue an anti-atomic consensus, then an atomic lobbyist in your own party has lost nothing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: Mrs Brunner, this is so cheap! That's embarrassing! It's so cheap!]] Unlike Mr Rudas, I find that he has clearly declared himself on which side he is standing. It's too late for RWE to resign. I call on Wolfgang Schüssel to leave this house and withdraw immediately! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] They should also take a stress test to see why the Federal Government has further agreed to support ITER, a stress test, why the Federal Government has agreed to increase Euratom research resources. All of this supports nuclear policy, the atomic lobby at European level. If we want out of atom – and there can be no doubt about that – we have to get out of this insanity technology – then we need concrete action now. My colleagues have already made suggestions, I bring in more: Act against the border-related risk-cars, including against non-existent public participation, for example in the case of Mochovce. To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] And we must act at European level. Austria is financing the atomic lobby with the Euratom Treaty. A few weeks ago, there was a popular desire that failed just about the obstacle. It was not made very easy for people. We have promised to bring this issue back here, and I would like to do so with the next request, which reads: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to reject the current Commission proposal on the ‘Euratom Research Framework Programme 2012 – 2013’ and to use the current budgets for nuclear fusion and nuclear fission research in favour of research and promotion of renewable energy sources, to take all steps to abolish the Euratom Treaty in its current form and to become the ‘Atom exit agreement’ that introduces the energy transition instead of continuing to finance and promote the nuclear industry, to submit to the National Council a government proposal concerning the exit of Austria from the Euratom Treaty, and thus, as requested in the popular desire ‘Raus from EURATOM’, to allow the decision-making of a referendum on exit. I call on the operators of this popular desire to speak here in the house and to deal with this in the Committee accordingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nuclear power can only be pushed back by massive promotion of renewable energy. Austria has unfortunately failed to achieve its goals in terms of eco-strom. This warrants an AKW Temelín because we operate eco-power blockade here. Therefore – Minister Mitterlehner is no longer here –: The Ecostrom Act will be the bar. For green electricity we need all the renewable resources we have. For example, the Greens agreed to 65 small hydropower plants in Upper Austria, including in Vorarlberg 4 power plants. We need all the resources. But at last we also need to learn that we have to deal with our resources very carefully, that nature must not be too short and that we must not destroy the planet any more. The commitment to the environment, renewable energy, to nuclear power simply needs commitment. Many citizens in Austria, Europe and all over the world are now involved in this. I would finally expect this commitment from you, instead of words, and I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9129	The two motions for resolutions are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9264	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9285	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What we experience during the last days and weeks, when we turn on the TV, see ORF, n-tv, PHOENIX, RTL, Pro7, which invades our Austrian households and frightens people, is the apocalypse we experience in Japan, an almost biblical apocalypse: First the earth trembles, then the flood comes, the fire in the form of nuclear power does the rest, and that to 25 000 years. And we see clearly what man himself is able to do – the man himself, who potentifies a natural disaster with his actions, a natural disaster, for which he may not be able to do anything, but which, at least, he potentifies with his greed and thus makes subsequent generations impossible life on this earth; the man himself, who takes the life space of himself, in the 21st century. At the end of the century, 25 years after Chernobyl, nuclear power still relies on nuclear power plants, without learning from Chernobyl, without using Hiroshima and all the other nuclear disasters, whether due to nuclear energy generation or to military action. Today we are experiencing the statements of the Federal Government, which can be classified as “the General Assembly of the Reisboard Generals”, where it is said that everything is to be done – but the Federal Government does not do it and is limited to adopting statements that once again support nuclear energy across Europe, instead of finally falling it, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Chancellor speaks of Austria as a vote against nuclear energy, and his own head of state Voves in Styria explains at 11.55 a.m. in front of the Styrian Landtag: There is only a small danger potential through Krško, which is no problem at all. Krško is technically flawless, we should continue to rely on nuclear power. The head of Styria states that the Krško nuclear power plant, which is located 107 kilometres south of Graz, is on an earthquake line and is technically older and broken than Fukushima, is a great facility. And finally, we can't do anything about it anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever has learned nothing from Chernobyl, who now learns nothing from Fukushima and does not realize that what we are currently seeing in an irregular way for us, the many dead, us in the second, in the next few hours, hours, years can also flourish in Austria, namely, an atomic accident of a power plant on an earthquake-free area, that a nuclear cloud and thus the creeping poisoning can reach us within 45 minutes – there are no more plans for crisis, there is nothing more helps to put up gas masks and wash the umbrella; within 45 minutes, such a nuclear accident can make South Austria the same barrier as it is currently Chernobyl, to an area that is no longer inhabitable – who does not understand it has lost nothing in politics and in responsible positions in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Greens on his report.]] The problem is that in Austria we do not have the right attitude: No to nuclear energy with the corresponding consequences. No to nuclear energy, also with the consequence that we leave Euratom, that we signal Croatia that we are vetoing as long as Croatia is not ready to shut down the Krško nuclear power plant, which is operating together with Slovenia. – We have to make consequences! We must also have consequences for the lobbyists who are sitting here in Parliament. We just experienced it 15 minutes ago: The atomic lobbyist Schüssel snaps his fingers, and the Minister of Agriculture goes out into the couloir area and receives the Directors of Mr RWE Supervisory Board. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: You would like that!]] We must also take initiatives against a lobbyist party consisting of lobbyists for VOEST, such as Mr Molterer, the lobbyist for general crime, Mr Strasser, Mrs Rainer, the lobbyist for tax evasion and infidelity, Mr Kapeller, the lobbyist for disabled parking. This party does not look at the concerns and concerns of people, but only at their own survival. And so, ladies and gentlemen, is the European policy of the EIA! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ferdinand Maier actually said it in several newspapers today: This is the curved gang of the ÖVP in front of the atomic lobby. Fold hands, hold gosh'n! Just sit down and sharpen your ears! Don't turn head, look forward! [[The speaker holds up tables with the quotes.]] Rarely has an ÖVP member, in this openness, presented the line of the ÖVP to the nuclear power, the deadly nuclear power in Europe and the world. Shame! They no longer deserve to represent the concerns and interests of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9349	Before entering the final round of speakers, I announced the speaking times: SPÖ 5 minutes, ÖVP 5 minutes, Free 6 minutes, Green 4 minutes, BZÖ twice 4 minutes. Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9373	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The human suffering in Japan is inconceivable and triggers distress, compassion and solidarity. First, the quake, then the flood wave, and now the nuclear disaster. The Japanese people deserve our respect for what discipline, with what patience and with what dignity all of this will bear. And this also deserves donations, international solidarity, because the people in Japan suffer bitter distress. To atomic insanity, my Ladies and gentlemen: What can be the consequences for Austria? What kind of behavior do we need to change? What attitudes are to be questioned – politics on the one hand, economics and civil society as a whole? Austria could be a credible model worldwide, both in energy production and in consumption. But for that, the prerequisite is that the end is with nuclear power imports, credible, radical and consistent, without tricks and without double ground, without compromises. Ladies and gentlemen! The world’s atomic lobby has a huge and world-wide power. 443 reactors are running in 30 countries, 400 more are planned, in China, in India, every few months new nuclear reactors are to be opened there. The countries are all completely unimpressed by the current events. With a sense of reality and illusion-free, it is clear that a global exit from nuclear energy will be a further way. As a member of the European Union, we can do more than be exemplary. Euratom must be reintroduced, controls must be at the centre, security must be established and, ultimately, Euratom should become an exit agency within the European Union. Of course, we support European citizens' initiatives. Behind that is the Federal Government closed and convincing. The action plan adopted today by the government is also a good basis. And whoever represents Austrian interests, ladies and gentlemen, and has public functions, should consider himself carefully where he is lobbying, Mr. Ex-Bundeskanzler Schüssel. We have a special responsibility here. What is the learning process from Japan in bilateral terms? – Yes, we need to be even stronger, even more determined and with even more emphasis on the power plants around Austria. 31 reactors are in operation, many are old, many are in a precarious state: Temelin, Dukovany, Mochovce, Krško. – By the way, Mr Strache, Krško is in Slovenia, not in Croatia. [[Abg. Strache: But is operated by Croatia! That shows again that you have no idea!]] And, Mr Grosz, head of state Franz Voves has today called for an EU-wide exit from nuclear energy. Mr. Strache, you said Krško is in Croatia. Let's stick to the truth again! The objective must, of course, be the closure of these reactors around Austria, since there must be no doubt. There are further political and diplomatic efforts to strengthen. It's also about: What contribution should the economy and industry make in this context? What is the willingness to drain energy consumption, question productions or look at where one can even substitute products and that there is no emphasis on profit maximisation and profit-making? This is not only to be achieved through legal compulsion – there is also a need for action – but also through conviction and long-term economic considerations. Civil society, the population can play a double role here: on the one hand, through a more conscious approach to energy, for example, changed leisure behaviour, but, on the other hand, also through commitment to nuclear power, such as collecting signatures, bringing petitions, supporting the European Citizens' Initiative. There must be a close-up between politics, economics and civil society. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a strict rejection of drivers, as are those who want to collect political change in this matter. Everything the opposition has brought is not wrong, but something is unworthy and disqualifying. The Chamber of Commerce believes that it is now necessary to increase the production of energy by the combustion of fossil substances. It can't be! An accelerated global warming, an destruction of the atmosphere, cannot be the answer to this nuclear disaster! Ladies and gentlemen! Nuclear energy and fossil energy must be reduced, renewable and environmentally friendly energy must come to the fore! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9430	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9451	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. Let me also begin with my speech because it is my personal concern to express our full solidarity and compassion with the very hard-tested Japanese people. A sequence of unfathomable disasters, starting with the strongest earthquake ever measured in Japan, followed by a tsunami of incredible magnitude – 14 meters high was the wave – up to the nuclear disaster, must result in our being united with the Japanese people. In addition, we should deeply bow down to the heroic helpers who, in the face of serious damage to their own health, are trying to prevent even worse in the area of Fukushima nuclear power station. Our respect for them and our hopes ultimately rest on them. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We also thank the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its employees. They have provided very professional and very decent assistance to Austrian citizens in Japan. I would like to tell you something else, especially ladies and gentlemen, from the opposition, at this point in time, namely, how strange and disturbing it is that some Members today have not been able to miss out on this serious issue in the context of this special meeting, to make an unsuitable, but above all inconceivable, attempt to beat political capital out of this tragedy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Stop it! Unbelievable to go no more!]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is not only absolutely tasteless, but is also evidence of a lack of political style! I reject that. [[Subsequent calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] In this context, it was also sad logic that ladies and gentlemen could not be convinced by the united opposition Blue-Green-Orange of the offer of a joint special meeting. This is actually an evidence of poverty for these parties. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, the opposite is the fact that Austria's anti-atomic course has been proving for decades. Since Zwentendorf, for more than 30 years now, the rejection of nuclear energy from cross-party ground consensus has been in Austria. The knowledge of the danger of this technology has been far beyond economic considerations in Austria for a long time. These positions have been and are supported very effectively by Austrian representatives – current and former German Chancellors, current and former environmental ministers – in Europe. Three nearby nuclear power plants were closed on Austria's insistences, and safety standards were stimulated and established. With regard to ERATOM, I only say: It is all better to be there and to be part of it than to be a delegation outside and not to be able to do anything. [[Abg. Kickl: You promise us now since 1995 – result zero! Cost: half a billion €! That's how your policy looks!]] An exit from Austria or other nuclear countries would result in a core Europe, namely a nuclear core Europe, and this cannot even be wanted to be serious by the largest environmental populists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Much has already been said, but it seems important to me to point out once again that the cleanest energy is the one that is not consumed at all. Therefore, it is now necessary to combine all efforts towards energy efficiency development first, thus minimizing the current import share of 5, 6 percent, so to speak, to save away the nuclear current share. The next important step that our country is facing – Austria is already known as the best-practice country and is at the top of Europe when it comes to promoting and forcing renewable energies: We should be an example for Europe: Biomass, photovoltaics, solar, wind, first and foremost hydropower, because Austria is very predestined for this very clean form of energy generation from its topography. Hydropower is and remains in Austria at the moment – the emphasis is on “the moment” – the most economically meaningful and sustainable solution. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] The fact that the Greens are repeatedly opposed also clearly demonstrates the credibility of these efforts today. Speaking of credibility – even orange and blue are a particularly good example for this –: FPÖ, for example, per year 2001: Sales of KELAG Carinthia, then 3 percent of nuclear power, today 20 percent; Klubobmann Strutz will certainly remember that. And you, Mr Grosz, have, I believe, promised, then if you do not go into the Styrian country day to go milking mice. I don't know what else you're doing in the BZÖ club!Unknown term type: "%s".?
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9542	The final sentence, Mr Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9564	No populism, sustainablely serious work on the nuclear excretion, and this together with a red and white-red shoulder closure – that's why I advertise! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9591	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9612	Mr President. High house! Unisono, all the speakers in front of me have found that they express their sympathy for the Japanese people in this situation. I want to go a little further and say: We would like to pay tribute to the Japanese people, with what pride, with what self-control and with what dignity they have been able to overcome these disasters and now try to live on daily and daily. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] This special meeting will not necessarily bring Europe's nuclear exodus, but one that it has already brought, namely a Council of Ministers decision on an action package. Unfortunately, we do not know its content, but the government, and in particular you, Federal Chancellor Faymann, must state clearly and clearly: If this special meeting, which has been requested by all three opposition parties, had not been convened, this package of action for the exit from nuclear policy would not have been launched by you yet! The content as such is still to be taken into account. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, almost all members of all five parties of this House agree and declare themselves ready to do everything possible to get out of nuclear energy, but this is the question of how. The problem in our Western world is that we cannot get out of nuclear energy from today to tomorrow. This has been demonstrated by numerous expert opinions and has been expressed in recent days. University physicists are referred to as possible periods 2030 to 204, 204 to 2050. Despite all energy saving measures and the much more effective use of energy, it is likely that an early nuclear phase will not be possible. I must accuse you of this as an absolute denial of reality by the Greens: that you are going around in Europe and that you are grotesque for an immediate nuclear exodus! – I just can't do that! – Mrs Glawischnig, I knew you were going to make an intermediate call at this point! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Why not?]] Read the Sunday edition of the “Kurier ”! Peter Rabl writes about you: “Falling away is the position of the Green Chef Glavischnig, who thus once again shows why they and their party do not get out of the spot. [...] And the declared goal of a total exit of the EU countries by 2020 is completely unrealised for many reasons.” You now know very well these reasons. This could also be described as economic illiteracy. Especially you, who always stand out as the representatives of intellectuals and educated people, would have to think about it a little bit. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's not true!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Now to you, Federal Chancellor Faymann! You suddenly noticed that your party name includes the word “social democracy” – and swupp! What did you think? They want to set up a European citizens' initiative against nuclear power. – Mr. Federal Chancellor, I have to tell you: This is really the biggest populist eye-witness that the SPÖ has organised in recent times! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because of the suffering of the population of Japan, you want to beat political change. That's for me last-class! They know as we all know that the European Citizens' Initiative, even if it should receive millions of supporters, will be presented to the European Commission. And then what happens? – The Commission must seriously examine this citizens’ initiative, which is already in the Europe-scrip of University Professor Dr. Isaac from Graz. In other words, this paper disappears, is stowed and is put somewhere in the backroom of the European Commission to remain with the term technician of nuclear energy. For us, ladies and gentlemen, freedom is the protection of the environment, and the home country belongs to the future of our children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just as the greens cynically deal with the exit from nuclear energy, the following – and I would like to mention this – shows us: [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Today is the World Water Day, and if you were to consider from the Greens only in the worst possible terms an expansion of the water economy, you would have put it on the tape today!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9731	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9752	Ladies and gentlemen. In the absence of Dr. Schüssel, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I regret that it is necessary to make such a request. I did not think it possible – until about a year ago – that a former German Chancellor and spokesperson of the anti-CFC policy in ÖVP can be bought by the main German CFC group by €200 000 a year. And now the Strasser case. – I ask you, Mr Klubobmann Kopf: What does an ÖVP delegate cost? [[Abg. Head: That's a naughtiness! That's a joke!]] Mr Strasser 100 000 €, Member of the European Parliament, 200 000 €. Could you not simplify the work to the lobbyists by issuing a price list of ÖVP delegates? Then the lobbyists know at least what they are at. It will be up to us as legislators to prohibit such things, which in part is already prohibited in the European Parliament today, also in Austria. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] We do not need any sales representatives, and we do not need representatives of the Austrian People's Party! [[New appeal to Greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Therefore, a step towards restoring the credibility of the Federal Government on this issue is the exit of Dr. Schüssel from the Austrian National Council. I urge him and the head of the Austrian People's Party to do this! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] The second and most important are the nearby nuclear power plants. To this end, I would like to say: I think it is good that the Minister of the Interior is at least silent in this debate. Three years ago, in the general public, including the National Security Council, we pointed out that six border-near nuclear power plants, completely without containment, can be attacked at any time by a single terrorist with a light shoulder weapon and destroyed in such a way that the super-gau must enter within the shortest time – without warning times! You know, Mrs. Fekter, warning times would be of no use because there are not even plans for evacuation by the Ministry of the Interior for the small nearby villages in Austria. But nothing has happened in the last three years. These nuclear power plants are still completely unprotected. They want to take fingerprints from all Austrians in the fight against terrorism, but against the potential nuclear bombs, against the targets of terrorists, with which this maximum devastation can be done in Austria, you have not touched a finger – you have not, the Environment Minister, the Vice Chancellor, the Federal Chancellor not! I'm asking you why? Why, Mr. Berlakovich, always these Sunday speeches? Why always make this important in the crisis, and not when it comes to really doing something for people, really fighting, really pointing out to our neighbors that in all good neighborhood the violation of Austrian interests can be tolerated by us neither by Prague nor by Bratislava, nor by Budapest, nor by Liège, nor by Zagreb, that we simply cannot tolerate that? When it comes to this, Mr Berlakovich is suddenly silent. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] Faith You really are ready to close our shoulders if you are on the ground in front of the European nuclear industry? Linging on the ground, Mr Berlakovich, you will not reach an shoulder closure! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] There you are! We are still trying, as the Austrian population wants, to make the majority, out of the vast majority against nuclear power in the Austrian population an actionable government policy. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] We have tabled a number of requests, I hope that at least a few will get your approval. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] I hope that the leadership of the ÖVP will finally be able to solve the problem in a decent way – through the end of the Parliament of Dr. Schüssel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9873	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9943	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e9964	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I fear that it will remain with the anointing Sunday speeches. It rightly fills many Austrians with concern that then, when Fukushima is over, you will have disappeared from public memory, from the headlines, continue the same nuclear policy that you have been carrying out for several years, and will not close any nuclear power plants in Europe and the world. That's the great fear I have. I call on you to declare that in the case of the Krško nuclear power plant on the Carinthian border, which has already been the subject today, you can actually do something to do that. You have the opportunity to become active at European level by saying quite clearly to Austria: If this scrap nuclear power plant, in which Croatia is involved, is 50 percent, not immediately and immediately closed, thus restoring the security of the entire South-Austrian region, then there will be a veto from Austria to join the EU! – This would be a concrete, reasonable measure that you could take immediately to ensure the safety of the Carinthia, the Steirer and the Steirer. [[OBJECTIVES]] A second point, which I think has been missed in this debate, is that many people today sit and watch in front of the television screens and ask the question out of legitimate concern: What about food safety in Austria? What about the food imported into Austria from this area? – There has been no answers to this, although the Minister of Health is sitting on the government bank. Is food safety guaranteed? Are there controls? Another question that must rightly be asked in the face of the drama in Fukushima: How is this actually in Austria, at European level, in the event of a crash, as regards the obligation to provide information? Is it ensured and guaranteed that people will know in good time that an incident has occurred? – Chernobyl and Fukushima prove that this is not the case. I ask you to: Tell the Austrians if you can guarantee that they will be informed in good time, or not! These are the questions that people have been working on outside and which, let alone, has not answered any representative of the government party today. I think these are also topics that are very important at the moment and which should also be our teachings from Fukushima: that information is masked, that people are not informed in good time. We have experienced several times at Krško that the flow of information in the event of difficulties in this nuclear power plant is absolutely unsecured. I really ask you to accept these topics too. I may make the following request to the Krško nuclear power station: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also expect the government's approval in the interests of ensuring security, especially of the South-Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e10034	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e10094	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e10115	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! When I heard colleagues head, this reminded me a little of William Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar”, 1599: “And Brutus is an honorable man.” – Notably when he defended the “Atom-Strasser” of ÖVP, Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This is the next resignation that starts, regardless of whether or not the Greens' request is going through or not. This cannot be achieved in the long term by the ÖVP! The rejection of nuclear energy is so continuous, even in the ÖVP election that one has no understanding that there is an Atom-Strasser sitting there, which can be paid by an atomic group for the threat of Austria from German nuclear power plants, ladies and gentlemen. This cannot even be achieved in the long term by the ÖVP! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In other words, either RWE's Supervisory Board will be transferred or the ÖVP's parliamentary club will be transferred. But that wasn't the real topic. I would have liked to tell the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Mitterlehner, that not only damples have short legs. Ladies and gentlemen! Last week, the EU Subcommittee of the Main Committee also discussed the Commission paper on Europe's Energy Strategy. In the cover of this paper it is officially from the Ministry of Economic Affairs – please, 13. March 2011, days after Fukushima has happened; I quote –: Austria welcomes the preparation of the European Commission's Energy Strategy Paper and its positions. – End of the quote. Well, let's look at the positions! On page 4, the position is as follows: “At present, nearly 45% of European electricity generation is based on low-carbon energy sources – mainly nuclear and hydropower. In certain parts of the EU, more than one third of the production capacity could be lost by 2020 due to the limited lifetime of the installations concerned. This means that existing capacities need to be replaced and expanded (...).’ Page 7, Quote: ‘The longer-term future must also be prepared through the development of next generation nuclear fission systems (...).’ Welcome to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, form on this paper, for submission to the EU Subcommittee of the Main Committee. Page 17, Quote: “The EU must continue to be the world leader in the development of safe nuclear power systems, the transport of radioactive substances and the disposal of nuclear waste.” – Welcomed by the Mittellehner Ministry. Page 18, next quote: “All these measures should enable the EU to maintain its leadership in the field of safe nuclear energy and should contribute to the responsible use of nuclear energy worldwide.” – End of the quote. Federal Chancellor! In the light of these quotations and of what the Minister of Economic Affairs has presented to Parliament in the form, what you have decided in your government today is exactly Grotesque. Their own government groups have decided on a soft request in the EU Subcommittee. You were not ready to put forward your request, Mrs Muttonen, which is soft. With no syllables, these rates were rejected, but the rates of the Ministry of Economic Affairs were still confirmed. With this attitude, ladies and gentlemen, you only show one thing: You are too cowardly, even where you have a plebiscite on your side, namely a referendum 30 years ago, where you have a constitutional law on your side to take up a position in the European Union. This is the position of Austria in the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, and it is pathetic! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And I tell you, ladies and gentlemen: As long as You have this pitiful attitude, as long as Mrs Plassnik is able to lament the committee. By the way: It was Mr Bartenstein who also said: Yes, if we were to represent this, we would remain completely alone in the European Union – just as Mr Mitterlehner has given us his heart today. He brought it up, but he stayed alone. 26 were different. That is exactly the attitude of Austria for years and days in this European Union! And that is why the rejection of the Austrians to the EU is so great. Why? – Because we have a political class – Mr Bundeskanzler – that is unfortunately your government – which does not have the mumm to represent Austrian positions in Europe. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am not yet talking about Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, who has taken part in this Commission paper, supposedly the strong voice of Austria in the European Union, with Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, with the support of Mr Mitterlehner, with the support of the two coalition parties in the EU subcommittee, ladies and gentlemen. There you can decide in the government today what you want, you will not become more credible by it!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e10257	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. Vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on a political initiative at the EU Summit on 24 and 25 May. March 2011 for referendums on a European nuclear exodus in all EU Member States. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – This one does not find a majority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, on "The offensive shut-off now! – against border-by-border risk nuclear power stations’. If you are in favour of this request, I would like to ask you for a sign. – This one does not find a majority. The application is rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members on 'Atomstrom No Thanks' – a package of measures for a secure future. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Where is the booker?]] If you support this request, I ask for a sign to be given. – This one does not find a majority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. This request was adopted by a majority. (E 147.) vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Strutz, colleagues, on measures to close the Krško nuclear power station immediately. If you're for that, I'll ask you for an appropriate sign. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Brunner, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Infringement proceedings AKW Mochovce’. If you support this request, I ask for a sign to be given. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Brunner, colleagues on referendum on the Euratom Treaty and the Euratom Research Framework Programme. If you support this request, I ask you for your vote. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pilz, colleagues, on the credibility of the Austrian anti-atomic policy. If you are in favour of this request, I ask you for your supporting sign. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Petzner, colleagues, on the immediate closure of the Krško nuclear power station. If you are for that, I ask for a sign of approval. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[13:08:10]] I shall interrupt the sitting until 1.20 p.m. Timely publication is requested.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e10386	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:24:40]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Werner Neubauer, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on the failure of the Austrian Federal Government in anti-Atom policy (7984/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e10425	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 7984/J. This has since been done to all the Members of this House. Therefore, reading by the writer is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e10632	I give the floor to Mr Neubauer as the first questioner to justify the urgent question. The speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e10653	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! [[The speaker presented a picture of the speaker’s desk, on which a cooling tower of a nuclear power plant was shown, which was covered with a banner of Greenpeace with the following inscription: nuclear power plants endanger Austria.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the current situation in Japan has voted the world since 11. March thoughtful and modest. The 11th. However, not only did March 2011 bring a terrible destruction and immeasurable suffering on Japan and the Japanese people, but it has clearly proved one again, namely that nuclear power is not a residual risk, but a residual risk, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Minister Berlakovich, you said not too long ago in the “press hour”, in your opinion it was necessary to retrofit nuclear power plants. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Safety technology!]] I am telling you today, from this point of view, that these nuclear power plants are not to be retrofitted but are to be shut down, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This alone represents the last development in this unsafe form of energy. Even a country such as Japan, which, due to its history and development, can show above one of the highest safety standards in nuclear power plants and in buildings, has not been able to prevent this catastrophe, at least to an tolerable extent. In view of this disaster in Japan, however, it is particularly remarkable – and these were the feedback here in the House today – that the atomic lobby is not thinking of a distraction at all, but on the contrary, it is still quite different steps, as you can hear. About two weeks ago, there was an extra-party initiative to obtain a popular survey here in Austria. The initiators have collected 98,500 signatures and have also received mockery from members of this House because they have failed to obtain the 100,000 signatures required by law. However, I am quite sure that if this popular desire were to run today, the number of signatures would probably be similar to that of the TemelÃn People's Desire, which the Freedom Party initiated and signed a million people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What do I want to say? – That it is incredible how fast or short-lived this time is in which we live. [[Abg. Bitch: No greens who praise? Interesting!]] There were events like that in Chernobyl, which is 25 years ago and where we have said, something like this must no longer exist, and other events that were even more terrible, and yet one does after some time pretend that nothing has happened. Federal Minister Berlakovich! I asked you a month ago in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: What is it, then, that prevents you from getting out of the Euratom Treaty, that you stick to it again and again? – And you have said that there is an opinion on which you hold, because it is credible and coherent in itself, and if we are of the opinion and do not believe that there is such an opinion, then we should try to get it ourselves. I tried to do this and went to your ministry. There I was rejected, politely, but determined, and told me that it was not accessible to me as a Member of Parliament. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Incredible!]] Who can still be believed in this House if the Minister of State here says to a Member of the House that it is only his own concern to refuse to do so at the same time? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I never said that! Only those...! Stay with the truth!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is unfair, so you do not deal with members of this House. You have to ask yourself, because of your behaviour in recent months, Mr. Federal Minister, you will be able to talk about it later, whether you do not have to consider appropriate steps in the context of the legal standards, in view of a Federal Minister or a Federal Chancellor who has acted on the nuclear question as you have done in recent years. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] In any case, its course is unacceptable and has now caused serious damage to the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If that is not the case, you will finally show courage, Minister of State! Why don't you go here and say, Well, although the 100 000 signatures have not been fully achieved, we are still discussing this issue here in the House, we are showing character as government here, we are allowing it to be discussed in the House. Let it be allowed that a referendum can finally take place to withdraw from the Euratom Treaty! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The people of our country – you said today that they did the right thing in the vote to get out of Zwentendorf – already know how to act, and they will also welcome the Euratom exit. That would be a signal you could put! What benefit has Austria had from this Euratom Treaty so far? – You have so far remained guilty of this answer, Minister of State. Has it led the Republic of Austria to an energy-autonomous path? - We don't know, we can't understand. We only know that the SPÖ is collaborating that from Austria 100 million € are paid annually in this contract. This could be used better for the expansion of alternative energies here in the country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The special privileges of the nuclear lobby through the Euratom Treaty have long since been reduced, as this is intended to be the case in Austria and in Europe for the expansion of alternative energy sources. It is also about energy efficiency, ladies and gentlemen, and it is also about expanding the networks when the debate on alternative energy is being held. I followed a debate in the German Federal Council. There, the Prime Minister of Schleswig-Holstein said that 40 percent of the energy in principle has to be shut down because the networks do not exist. That's to be done, too. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the true Krux. The atomic lobby hinders the expansion of the networks so that the alternative energies will not be implemented. That's the scandal! And we finally have to work there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is also about alternative forms of energy, such as hydropower. If I then hear that Steyr is working on the establishment of a hydropower plant and a citizens' initiative of ten people to protect the gravel banks on the Steyr, and the Greens in Upper Austria are based on the initiative of this citizens' initiative by ten people, thus preventing the expansion of hydropower, then we know where the true opponents of the expansion of the alternative energies are located in Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hörl points out the Green MEPs.]] That must be done too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is where I appeal to the Greens not to join every stupidity, but to fight for the alternative energies together with us. At the same time, I would like to ask Mr Schüssel, who unfortunately is not here once again – probably at an RWE Supervisory Council meeting – what he has done so far to make Austria more nuclear-safe. [[Abg. Vilimsky: It certainly shines!]] I would like to ask him to come to the speaker's desk today. I saw he's not on the speaker list. Either he or she should explain what he has done for Austria so far, or he should take his hat out of the RWE Supervisory Council, because it is really incredible to interact with the basic consensus of Austria on nuclear policy in such a way. It's just not moral. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is known that there have been 1,330 incidents in Germany in the last ten years. An incident is not just something. That's always so easy to say. An incident is an event that causes the nuclear power plant to cease to operate properly. 1 330 incidents are therefore also 1 330 massive hazards to the citizens of the Republic of Austria, and thus we do not want and can not live on in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: Live the Republic!]] Nevertheless, the durations were extended. If I see today the request of the Federal Government that we think about creating an exit from nuclear power in about 20 years, I have to tell you that the conservative government in Germany is more honest. It says that they want to extend the term by 12 years, but at least in parallel to that they want to promote the expansion of alternative energies. So when it comes to supporting the request of the Federal Government today, everyone here in the House should consider whether this alone is a reason to want to achieve the conversion to alternative energies in Austria at this time. When it comes to the fact that there has been a wide variety of infringements, I can give you an example from Germany, which has been strongly discussed in the public over the last few weeks. It's about the nuclear power station in Neckarwestheim. Three years ago, the responsible parties asked that they receive funds for retrofitting to the safety of this nuclear power plant. They have been denied the money with the argument that the Federal Government is thinking of closing the nuclear power plant, because they are already getting over the rounds somehow, because we are just going down it a little bit, but we will no longer invest money. Now the duration of this scrap reactor has been extended by 12 years, but the funds are still not there – and the potential for danger has increased enormously. [[Abg. Großruck: This is Germany!]] – This is Germany, dear colleague Großruck?- Oh, my God! You know how far Chernobyl was away? [[Abg. Grandruck: I know that.]] – Nevertheless, it has come to us. Shame for this call! This is a Community of citizens' security in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: This discussion should lead Germany!]] They have failed massively in the nuclear policy under Chancellor Schüssel in Austria. [[Abg. Amon: Please go!]] You are almost inclined to say that you have not failed, but consciously acted on behalf of the atomic lobby as you have just done. And I'm going to give you ten points where I'm going to make these main criticisms: They have accepted the Temelíns company with the concession that certain safety criteria are met by the Czech Republic. ==References== In November 2001, in other words, for ten years, you have abandoned the so-called zero variant. But in fact you have also given up the goal of preventing Temelín, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Rudas, you have raised the morale several times today and the help we should give you as an opposition. I ask you: Where was this morality, as the Czech Republic by the collapse of the nuclear power station on 2nd. In November 2006 the Commission violated Chapter 6 of the Milk Protocol and did not come out of the Federal Government? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where was this morality, if the Milk Protocol is not fulfilled until today, and the Temelín Commission has not given any useful results since 2008? Where is the morale, when you know that there are still massive defects at the stage and in the valves in Temelén, which endanger the health and safety of Austrians, which are not fixed to this day? Where was the morale, Mrs Rudas, when you did not bring an action against the Czech Republic when it came to an illegal EIA? Where was the morale when the Federal Government was silent with the same expansion of the Mochovce nuclear power station? Where is the morale if a scrap reactor can continue to operate in Krško without your reaction? You have the phone in your hand and write any text messages. You are not even able to follow this debate properly. That's your morality, that's your predicament you're living on. That's the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And one more thing: If there are opinions that have been confirmed twice, opinions that in a radius of 50 kilometres from a nuclear power plant, there is an increased level of leukemia in small children, I wonder why you are silent here and therefore endanger the health of our children, our young ones. This is not the morality I want in this house, I can tell you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, however, you call into question the revision of the Eco electricity Act and oppose the ecologicalisation of the tax system. That is what you are actually doing in nuclear policy now. A response to a request has shown that a nuclear waste warehouse will be built on the Czech-Austrian border – not to be – that the test drilling will be carried out this summer so that it will be designed in such a way that most likely the whole of Europe will store the nuclear dirt here – on the Austrian border, on the border with a country that has prescribed the nuclear-free zone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's a scandal that you haven't protested and responded accordingly until today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 25 years after Chernobyl, after hundreds of thousands of dead, you are unable to shut down 196 nuclear power plants throughout Europe – including Russia. Austria would be obliged, due to its historical experience with Zwentendorf, to play a pioneering role here. But – Mr Stadler has already said it – there is only Duckmuseum here and nothing else. Lip confessions are being made, but otherwise the public has not yet experienced what you actually intend to do. Mr Cap has been passionately opposed to nuclear power for ten minutes today. Single: Mr Cap, you have not given details of the objectives which this Federal Government is actually going to pursue. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Exit! Get out! Get out! Listen! Action programme! Get out!]] Where are the concrete measures? You have not said so, and the request you presented to us this morning does not really show that. As the Federal Government – you always call on everyone else to do something –: What are you doing? That's my question. What to do in concrete terms You – as a member of this Federal Government? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, if you do not assume your responsibility better in the future than you have done so so far, it would be really better to give this place to someone who is willing to do something against the supremacy of this nuclear lobby in Europe. [[Call the ÖVP: Wills! Will!]] That would be a signal. That would be an approach to finally do something for the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The danger is indeed great. A secret paper from the EU has just been issued to the public declaring that the EU is worse equipped for nuclear accidents than Japan. EU security standards were only in force in three countries, information would automatically hide, EU nuclear promotions in billions were hidden in the EU budget, CFC stress tests were only a placebo solution. If you know all of this, then the alarm signals have to light up, then it must finally be clear to those who have supported the atomic lobby for other reasons that it cannot continue. Nuclear current is a life-consuming, risky form of energy. Let's split up at last! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Freedom Party does not demand for nothing, and therefore precisely the establishment of an expert committee, which actually thinks about the potential of danger that flows into Austria, once, calculates it and then informs the public about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: Mr. Neubauer! Mr. Neubauer!]] That would be an approach where you finally have to make nails with heads. It cannot be said that in all these applications and complaints you are now doing what the Freedom Party under its Federal Minister Heinz-Christian Strachereids made years ago, namely the actions against Temelín, against Mochovce and against the extension of the duration of the German nuclear power plants Isar 1 and others in Brussels. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Mr. Neubauer!]] We did this. You could've done that, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] They slept and weighed the population in safety. This is an unscrupulous access to a life-threatening form of energy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister! Do it now! Protect Austria! Protect the people in Austria! Protect nature in Austria! Your answer to the question will give an initial indication of how honest you think about this topic in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e11108	I now give the floor to Mr Ostermayer's Secretary of State. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e11140	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! On some points I share this, and the debate on the morning has also proved that we in the Federal Government – here in the High House too – agree that nuclear energy is not an energy form of the future, that it represents a huge danger. This has proved the events in Japan again, where thousands of people have died, where one cannot estimate at all how things continue and how sustainable the catastrophic consequences are. From this very point of view, I find it very unfortunate that some of the actions have been carried out with aggressive polemics. I believe that the debate on the morning, the declaration by the Federal Chancellor, the statement by Mr Umweltminister, the decision taken by the Federal Government in the early days, shows what the aim is. [[Abg. Kickl: Double zero!]] The question of whether Josef Cap is for an atomic stopper or not is a question that doesn't ask me. This is of course – not only because of what he has said, but also because of how he has acted so far. On the one hand, I am glad that this broad consensus is given. I believe that this is also very important if we in Europe, if we want a strong voice internationally – knowing that we are in a difficult situation. Mr Mitterlehner, Federal Minister, briefly described yesterday's Council of Ministers this morning. Of course, what we need to take into account – and I believe that this is necessary in view of the situation – is that we simply and simply consider how such a pragmatic thing can happen. Environmental organisations know very well: When we talk about nuclear exodus, we also need to talk about alternatives. And the alternatives range from energy efficiency to the expansion of renewable energies. Also, this House and the Federal Government have a broad consensus – in principle, not in every detail, not in every single project, there can also be different positions. When you look at the expansion program of the Verbund AG, you can see that there are a lot of projects in which there are actually also consensus with environmental organisations. We know that drilling very hard boards is generally the exit from nuclear energy – to use this quote – we know. However, it cannot and should not prevent us from working on this objective as closely as possible. On the questions of urgent inquiry in detail. – I would like to predict that many questions in this question concern different ministries. Therefore, the questions would have rightly been addressed to these ministries, but the closeness of the Federal Government in this question, which has again demonstrated itself this morning, leads me to naturally make the answer, some in general terms. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] On the individual questions: Questions 1, 2, 4 and 5 – I have sometimes summarized questions that belong together – are: The Federal Government has today adopted the Action Plan for an international rethinking on nuclear energy towards renewable energy and energy efficiency. It was also stated that we are naturally opposed to any form of nuclear energy promotion and to the construction of new nuclear power stations, and that protection of the population and the environment is the top priority. In the context of European negotiations to combat climate change, we have always been committed to ensuring that nuclear power does not get a classification as a sustainable form of energy generation, and emphasises that it is not a viable option to combat climate change. This has not always been the case, and this discussion has not been easy because, of course, there have been a number of European states that have pursued this very objective, namely that energy produced by nuclear power plants is located on the topic of clean, environmentally friendly energy. Austria has also used several times to revise the Euratom Treaty into a security treaty. This has only been supported by a few Member States in the past. The accession to the European Union in 1995 - and I believe that is clear to everyone who has dealt with this subject legally - was only possible by agreeing to both Treaties, i.e. the ECSC and the EAEC, i.e. the Euratom Treaty. There are different legal positions on a separate exit, we know, but the vast majority of legal experts – including the Constitutional Service and the International Law Bureau – believe that independent withdrawal – even if there should be interpretations under the Lisbon Treaty – is not possible because the two institutions are very closely interconnected. In addition, however, one can also ask whether it would be wise at all to leave, because of course that meant losing the potential for influence there. To the popular desire that has taken place: I do not want to comment on the number of supporters, but there were some environmental organisations that did not represent or support this – precisely for this reason: They have said that we are losing the opportunity to influence and that the option that the Euratom Treaty is, as it were, transformed into a security treaty is finally granted. You should consider that too. That we want to continue – and this, of course, is also consensus – in the EU to make persuasive work for a permanent exit from nuclear energy, I believe, of course, and this has also demonstrated the debate this morning and all the words that have been given to it. With regard to border nuclear installations or nuclear power plants, we have once again clearly stated in the action plan adopted today that we want to exploit and take advantage of all the possibilities – on the one hand at European level, but on the other hand, all the other legal and political possibilities. On the question of the Euratom budget: As we know, there is no own budget, which would, as it were, be separate. The Federal Minister has once said which funds are allocated and found that – by size – it is €22 million. 100 million €, as your request says, have never been stated in an issue. That's never been confirmed by anyone. The Minister for the Environment said that it was €22 million. About half of this is intended for the safety and decommissioning of old nuclear power plants as a result of the accession of the new Member States. To emphasize this clearly again: Today, we have also decided to support the reorientation of the funds for Euratom and the objective of Euratom, towards the promotion and research of renewable energy, towards the exit from nuclear energy, towards end-to-end storage opportunities or research on end-to-end storage opportunities. Because we know exactly: Where nuclear power plants are operated, there is at the end of nuclear waste that has to be disposed of in any form. At the same time, we know that there is actually no future solution for this. There is a discussion at the European level, a debate on a directive, what it might look like, but that is not far enough. Question No 3, by Mr De Keersmaeker. I'm of the opinion that everyone has to decide according to their own conscience. I do not assume, however, that the secondary activity of Mr Schüssel, who has been mentioned several times today, has an influence on the fundamental and fixed position of Austria and on the political consensus on nuclear matters. Questions 6, 9, 11 and 16: The choice of energy sources is reserved for each Member State. That is, every country decides what form of energy it wants to generate and use. This can be seen from the point of view of nuclear energy as a disadvantage. But you can also see it as an advantage: The advantage of this is that we were able to decide – as Austrians – that we do not want nuclear energy. The outcome of the 1978 referendum was indicative. That was maintained, that's consensus. This is possible because the energy question, the choice of the energy mix, is not a European but a national question. On the question of stress test: It was presented in the morning as if it were actually an initiative of the nuclear operators, the atomic lobbys. That's how you can see it. But you can also see it differently: Firstly, of course, we do not intend that the stress tests should have a placebo effect, but that they should be an effective instrument that must ultimately also have consequences, namely the shutdown or the retrofitting of safety. This view is, by the way, global 2000. If you look at the Global 2000 homepage, you can see that the organization is not opposed to it, but sets up demands, how such a stress test has to look like, that it is efficient, that it must have consequences, that it must be occupied with independent experts – that is, not with those who first said it's okay, then once more have said it's right, but with those who have a really efficient, critical look at it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Only then does it make sense. There I am with you. But I think it must be our goal to ensure that exactly such a safety test standard works according to precisely defined criteria – from the issue of earthquake security to the issue of terrorism security. I think that is an aspect that should not be ignored. And when we achieve this, I think a huge step has been taken towards security – on the one hand. On the other hand: If we do, this will also result in many nuclear power plants becoming simple and simply uneconomical. This is a second aspect that we have also mentioned, namely that we need to discuss nuclear liability law. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That doesn't assure anyone! That doesn't assure anyone!]] If we internalize the so-called external costs – i.e. if possible environmental costs, possible damage costs must be borne by the power plant operators and the damage does not carry the general public – then the economic comparability of nuclear power will decrease in such a way that it will not be an economically viable form of energy generation for this reason. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr Pirklhuber]] [[Abg. Kickl:... it didn't work either!]] Question 7: The accusation that the population has not been regularly informed is, I believe, particularly inappropriate in this case. There was a meeting of the European Council last week. ==References====External links== I think I landed at 11 a.m. on March and then immediately delivered a statement. Federal Minister Berlakovich gave a statement. As hardly any other event before, it was reported very intensively in the media – by the way, much more intensive than in Japan. [[Abg. Petzner: But no one knows exactly what happened!]] I called a friend in Tokyo. He was surprised how intensively the reporting took place in Austria. Question 8: The Strasser case is actually with the competent investigating authorities – with the public prosecutor’s office on the one hand, with OLAF on the other. I assume that, as a result, he will also land at the court and be there to decide. I believe that the wish and objective of all is that the investigation and investigation be carried out as quickly and comprehensively as possible. This will not change the determination of the Federal Government and the determination of this House to act against nuclear power. On Question 10: It should be acknowledged that in Germany the extension of the remaining time for nuclear power plants decided at the end of 2010 has now been suspended for three months in order to verify its safety. For the seven oldest nuclear power plants including Isar 1, this means a temporary stopover. Of course, we would like to see Isar 1 permanently removed from the grid. [[Abg. Neubauer: Seehofer has already announced the opposite!]] Question 12: We are, in principle, for cost-truth. I have already emphasized this in the example of a future liability right. I am also in favour of examining everything in the direction of what constitutes the cost-effectiveness of energy sources, especially of nuclear power. Questions 13 and 15 concerning the Temelín nuclear power plant, blocks 1 and 2: We assume the international liability of the agreement in Brussels and the Melker Agreement. It was not undisputed, but our firm conviction. It is also known that the agreement did not establish a jurisdiction which would, of course, make judicial enforcement more difficult. The security dialogue and bilateral cooperation will be continued by the Minister for the Environment in order to ensure the implementation of all security measures. We also call on blocks 3 and 4 concerning the Czech Ministry of the Environment to take account of the requirements of the Czech Ministry of the Environment, but also to ensure that the Austrian NGOs, the Austrian environmental organisations, have access to justice. We know that there is a discussion on the issue of the implementation of the Environmental Impact Directive. This is currently being examined by the European Commission. However, we have also stated in today's Council of Ministers that we are reserved for any complaints. Question 14: In principle, as regards the planned expansion of the Mochovce nuclear power plant, Austria has implemented both its call for a formal environmental impact assessment procedure and the demand for a public hearing. We are also in this respect – and I am just going to answer this – in constant contact with the European Commission on the clarification of open EU legal issues, particularly with regard to Slovakia's EIA legislation. [[call to the FPÖ]] We have also stated today that we are reserved for any complaints. On the question 17: The Federal Government supports the expansion of renewable energies in Austria. The priority here is to strengthen the expansion of renewable energy sources as well as the consistent increase in energy efficiency. We and Austria have committed themselves to increasing the share of renewable energy sources in final energy consumption to 34 percent by 2020. We already have one of the highest shares in the EU, we are fourth in terms of renewable energy sources, with about 30 percent in 2009. We are therefore in a good way to achieve these very ambitious goals. The same applies to energy efficiency. As part of the EU 2020 strategy, we set ourselves the goal of stabilising final energy consumption to 1 100 petajoule by 2020 and thus at the level of 2005. This means an increase in energy efficiency of 20 percent. Of course, various measures are necessary: Budget, businesses, transport, buildings – for example, in the area of thermal renovation, which we are now further promoting again, in the area of housing development, the Road Costs Directive was a subject in this context – and of course also rail development. This means that we also want to reduce the dependence on energy imports. On the question 18, revision of the Eco electricity Act: This is in preparation by the Federal Minister. He will make a presentation of the cornerstones tomorrow. Afterwards, the novelle of the Eco electricity Act will be reviewed. There are a few essential points in it: The extension of photovoltaics should be forced, procedures should be simplified and promotion increased. On question 19: In preparing the budget for 2011, but also in establishing the budget path, that is, the Federal Financial Framework Act by 2014, which was adopted here in the National Council, initial considerations of a stronger ecologisation of the tax system have been incorporated. One issue, of course, was the increase in the tax on mineral oil, i.e. the consumption-dependent tax and therefore, of course, very specific. [[Abg. To congratulations! That has been very “beautiful ”! 1,15 € per litre!]] At the same time, we have amended the standard consumption levy in such a way that, for so-called sprit-eating vehicles, it is much higher standard consumption charges, that it is staggered depending on consumption, which of course should also have an effect towards the purchase of more environmentally friendly vehicles, i.e. almost a bonus-malus system: Prefering environmentally more environmentally friendly and disadvantaged vehicles. We have introduced the flight tax which, of course, should also provide an incentive for more environmentally sound behaviour. At the same time, a revision of the Energy Tax Directive is currently under discussion at the Commission in Brussels, which aims at further ecologicalisation. At the moment, the proposals will be drawn up, they will be presented in summer, and then they will be discussed. Questions 20 and 21 As with nuclear power plants, the Federal Government will also use all legal and political means to safeguard Austrian security interests, including the participation in cross-border EIA procedures, in nuclear waste storage camps such as in Switzerland or in the Czech Republic. I said earlier that the amendment of the Euratom Treaty on one of our objectives should, of course, also be the question of final storage. We will also ensure that all relevant international and EU legislation on this matter – party status, right of complaint for Austrian NGOs, as I said earlier, and that territorial authorities in the EIA process are kept in focus and in addition. Questions 22 and 23: In Austria, there are no plans and not at all a decision to make a nuclear waste storage site, neither in Seibersdorf nor elsewhere. On question 24, that is, concerning the Federal Army topic – a professionalization, as Norbert Darabos has suggested, at all levels –: In recent times, two issues relating to foreign operations have given rise to headlines: on the one hand, when it came to bringing people back from the North African crisis areas, on the other hand, to the area of disaster protection, namely the people now offered and prepared for EU-coordinated assistance in Japan. There, of course, professionals and non-contributors are in use everywhere. I think professionalization is an essential advantage, especially in such crisis situations. There is also agreement in the government that civil protection should continue to be a part, a very important task of the federal army – of course, as one knows from the floods of recent years, alongside the fire brigades and in cooperation with them. The fire brigades are always the first to act in a disaster. The German army then helps with heavy equipment and all the other measures and possibilities it has. There is therefore agreement that civil protection is an essential element of the Austrian federal army and should remain in the future, no matter what model. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e11366	We are now going into the debate. No speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, total speaking time per club: 25 minutes. Mr Vilimsky came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e11393	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My two gentlemen on the government bank! In particular, Mr Ostermayer, who is representing you today as the Federal Chancellor, should have answered our questions here. – But I understand, the Austrian Chancellor is meeting the Czech Prime Minister today. And I am convinced that with great persuasion or persuasion, with charm and like a lion in red and white, he will represent the demands of Austrian interests as regards nuclear power. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's the way it is!]] Is there anyone who doesn't believe that? - I don't think so either. And I'm telling you why I don't believe it: Because the central droplets that Austria would have in its hands to enforce our interests – for example, our role as net payer in the European Union and our role, what the labour market and its opening up from 1. May – he will certainly not throw all of this into the scales. And I guarantee you, it won't come out at all! [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is your opinion!]] Because German Chancellor Faymann does not have enough courage because he does not have the format to implement Austrian interests and because Austria needs a German chancellor like Heinz-Christian Strache who would have the courage to implement exactly these interests! – – Horch! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: This is a fascinating speech!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It becomes interesting for a party that is such a europhil as the ÖVP. It tells us again and again that this European Union is so important that it is a combination of values, it makes us operational in the geopolitical context. The only thing where I see that the European Union is indeed capable of action is to wage an attack war in North Africa, on behalf of the French, and with the involvement of the Nobel Peace Prize winner Barack Obama de facto, where it concerns nothing but economic interests, about oil interests. The situation in Yemen and Bahrain, on the other hand, is not interested in anyone, because it is not about as much money as it is here. The second, where the European Union is truly capable of action, is, as is now being done in the wake of the whole debate, to secure a rescue shield for the needy European states. In reality, no needy citizen in Europe now receives only one euro of this doubled rescue shield. On the contrary: It is only about securing the speculation gains of banks that are likely to influence this decision through their lobbyists. But that's not a point of appreciation. In the face of the untold suffering of this tragedy, which has taken place in Japan, it would be urgent to say that, in the face of these many deaths, which we unfortunately have to report, there is a clear position on this matter: Yeah, we're getting out of this fiend of nuclear energy. That would be appropriate! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I expect a European Union to do this. Not to order energy-saving lamps and standardized shower heads that no one wants but to live values. And these values the European Union certainly does not live! In view of the 20 000 dead in Japan, I would like to express my deep interest, even in the face of the diseases that are still to come, and in view of the fact that much of unborn life will still be damaged. I think Austria has to provide maximum help, that is not at all a question, but it would also be a sign of the propensity to send a clear signal to these people and, above all, to the dead: [[Abg. Grandruck: Let's do it anyway!]] Get out of the nuclear power! We're not going with that! It's a shame you missed from SPÖ and ÖVP today. What are you doing? – They come with stress tests. This is exactly the same shame as in the financial sector, where you have already precipitated it. How do you propose and carry out a stress test when it comes to a terrorist maneuver? How do you want to perform a stress test if, for example, an aircraft crashs directly over a reactor? That can't be simulated! And even if it's simulated, it'll go into your pants, I'll tell you exactly. Therefore: Get out of nuclear energy, quickly! And don't enslave how you do it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the world is unfortunately another. Let us look at the international financial markets today! You may already have observed which shares today experience a real high flight, an increase of 10 percent and more. It is not alternative energy sources and companies that further achieve this, it is the uranium explorers and uranium mines that today have a huge increase. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I know you're not responsible for that. I'm not responsible for that either. But what you are responsible for is to make the rule work, to take the economy into account in such a way that it is no longer possible for a business to be done on the back of people who have died and who may eventually die in the future. Therefore: Get out of this nuclear energy, and that as soon as possible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The time is pressing me to come to a close slowly, so I leave a lot out. I would like to give you one more way from the ÖVP – and that person who is not in plenary now, namely the former Federal Chancellor Schüssel: I would like to make this unagitated, I would like to see this as a constructive, positive proposal. The former Federal Chancellor Schüssel, who, as it is colported, took up up up to €200 000 annually for the Supervisory Board of a German nuclear group, that is the person who is proven to be the only one in the interest of the nuclear industry. [[Abg. Amon: Energy group!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP]] I would like to, and I appeal to the former Chancellor Schüssel – perhaps he can give his heart a boost or help you a little bit – that he does that, that he is still standing in front of this House today and says: Yeah, I'll put this Supervisory Board seat back. [[Abg. Amon: Go!]] – No, don’t cry, Mr. Amon! It is a very essential thing that this House speaks with one voice when it comes to calling for the exit from nuclear energy at last. I'm sure I won't let you out of your responsibilities! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Look, nobody knows better than you: It is only about money in Brussels. You can see that at the Causa Strasser and this is seen in other cases. Therefore: Do you have the courage in the European Union to threaten others and to say no when it comes to our net payments when it comes to spending our money on European projects – as long as a 26 : 1 scenario exists, as long as 26 out of 27 countries of the European Union say, yes, we are holding fast to this nuclear power, and only one country on this issue can get out with a knee-soft policy! That's your responsibility, that's what you're both meeting as government fractions. And there it would be nice to be good and right to have at least a little success here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e11588	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e11610	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Secretary of State for the excellent reply to this written question. [[Abg. Bookbooker: That was necessary!]] Mr Vilimsky, I am surprised that you have expressed a general polemic here and have not addressed the presentation of the Secretary of State. [[Abg. Vilimsky: The Truth...!]] I should like to comment briefly on this written question, namely the role of former Member of Parliament Strasser in the European Parliament: I would like to say that his behaviour constitutes a collateral damage to all European policies and policies as a whole. I believe that it will be necessary for the House to be in Austria as far as lobbying is concerned. In addition, rules are also drawn up for Members. I would like that, and many in the Austrian population wish for it. [[Abg. Vilimsky: What about your minister?- Oh, my God!]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The rejection of nuclear power is a common consensus between all parties here in Parliament. It is the basic consensus of Austrian politics since 1978. And Mr Vilimsky, Austria left at that time! Many here in this house – like Josef Cap, Elmar Mayer and I – were actively involved. We fought within the Social Democracy for a reorientation and were able to win this vote. If we had not gone to the streets at that time, we would not have entered into conflicts, then the situation in Austria would probably look different, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government has today adopted a joint action plan: “International rethinking from nuclear energy to renewable energy and energy efficiency”. This action plan should be supported in all respects. I should like to remind you of the clear words of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany about the nuclear exodus. I should like to remind you of the words of Mr Berlakovich, the Minister for the Environment, who has drawn out the Energy Authority, and of the words of Mr Mitterlehner, Minister of State, who presented the political problems at European level. The problem is that many countries in Europe do not want to hear the word ‘atomic exit’. Colleague Neubauer meant in the direction of Josef Cap: What are you doing? – Mr Neubauer, there is a motion for a resolution from the government parties. It says: The fastest possible exit from nuclear energy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's what we want. [[Abg. Singer: We don't want to know what you want! What are you doing?- Oh, my God!]] I'm welcome to invite you to do this. It will be interesting for us to see how the opposition parties will behave in this request and in the vote. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The disaster in Japan has caused people in Central Europe to become more and more energy conscious and to announce the contracts to their suppliers because they only want more ecologically produced electricity. And already you hear them, the atomic lobbyists who think it would now be price increases. You hear the lobbyists who think it would lead to environmental pollution and CO2 increases. That must be rejected with all the emphasis! I can recall the words of Josef Cap, who pointed out that since 1960 alone in Germany, €160 billion has been involved in the promotion of nuclear power. What does that mean? – Atom current is not only a risk energy, a life-threatening energy, but also the most expensive energy. The funds used for this would have to be put in alternative energies. Therefore, there is only one answer to the public debate: Exit from nuclear energy. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a voice against nuclear energy. We can only invite the opposition parties, together with us, to represent clear positions and, in the sense of our request, to join forces for the fastest possible exit from nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e11698	Mr Wöginger has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e11720	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is also important and necessary in this debate that we first and foremost express our sympathy for the victims of the earthquake and tsunami disaster in Japan. More than 20,000 dead, hundreds of thousands of homeless people, who have no home, no home, no home anymore – our complete solidarity and support goes to the victims and to the thousands of helpers. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Csörgits.]] Full support is also available for the donations calls in this area. Recognition and respect is particularly important for workers who in the destroyed Fukushima AKW overhumane and, hopefully, can prevent an even greater nuclear disaster. I would also like to thank our Foreign Ministry, Minister Spindelegger, for the staff who have been exemplary in caring for the Austrians who were in the crisis area at that time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The nuclear disaster in Japan has triggered a global discussion about the exit from nuclear energy. It is also necessary to draw the right conclusions and consequences. I come from Upper Austria, from the Inn district, and it is important for us that our great neighbor, the Federal Republic of Germany, has acted very quickly and has turned off seven nuclear power stations. [[Abg. Blow: But only temporarily!]] Among them is the Isar 1 power plant, which is at least as threatening for us as the Temelín power plant on the Czech border. I hope that this tragedy will bring about a rethinking in this area in other countries. Austria has a cross-party consensus since the 1978 referendum on Zwentendorf: Nuclear energy is dangerous and therefore reject – out of nuclear energy, pure in renewable energies. Today's presentation to the Council of Ministers confirms this position, as well as the resolution adopted by the government parties. Again it is clearly defined: Exit from nuclear energy – not from today to tomorrow, that will not be possible, but through a concrete exit plan. Furthermore, additional safety measures for the nuclear power stations are more necessary than ever. The security issue is a very important one, especially when looking at the incidents in Japan. What was the main reason? – It could not be sufficiently cooled. The diesel aggregates were destroyed by the tsunami and the earthquake. It is important to take into account and involve enhanced security strategies. The stress test is a quick binding safety check for all European nuclear power plants according to European directives. This should not be ridiculous, which is a very important point in the Council of Ministers' speech and in the motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Which European directives?! That's funny! There are no European directives!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A new energy strategy, towards renewable energies – the ministers of the ÖVP have presented a paper for a sustainable, forward-looking energy policy. Over 150 experts have worked on this. I should like to express the three main points of this strategy. First: Making energy efficiency less out of, for example, thermal renovation, a project that is also continued by the offensive measure in the budget accompanying law with €100 million in Austria. This is a truly important ecological and economic measure. Reduce consumption, save nuclear power, save energy also in households. [[Abg. May. Brunner: How do you do that?- Oh, my God!]] We need a Danube power station only for standby devices, for everything that remains in the household, from TV to DVD player to SAT receiver. All these things should also be taken into account. We need a power plant on the Danube for these devices. Secondly, Renewal of renewable energy. This is preached by everyone here – I would like to say almost. Hydropower, wind farms and more intensive use of the sun. I can give you three examples from Upper Austria, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and the Greens. You have not been honored by the behaviour of your mandaters, your government members in the countries. The first example is the power plant Lambach. Remember 1995! Remember what happened in Upper Austria! There were demonstrations, the greens were sitting on the trees. State Councillor Achatz then produced 10,000 schillings for the demonstrations so that this power plant does not come about. For the demonstrators, money has flown. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Be a little careful what you say!]] Thank God there was the head of state Pühringer, who has implemented this project. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, everyone says that it is a heartfelt example and the plant and animal world has been preserved excellently. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! Go home and explain this to your fellow fighters and predecessors! Second example: the wind farm in the Kobern forest, the same scenario. Who gives a negative opinion? – Landesrat Haimbuchner – negative, as Naturschutzlandesrat. That's your true face, it's party politics pure. The Greens are only once for it, the population is for it, and only because Anschober is in favour is Haimbuchner – pure party policy. Leave this at home! This has not lost anything in the energy policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: That's it!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Yes, yes!]] Third example: Niederranna reservoir on the Danube. This is between my district and that of Federal Minister Mitterlehner. This project is thoughtful, sustainable and forward-looking. Who's against it? – Anschober, the Environment Council, is against it. He does not want this reservoir with which we could reasonably cover the peaks of electricity in our area. Then it stops with the hypocrisy that you show from this pult. At home, you're completely different. That's what the people should know. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The same behaviour exists in the expansion of lines and networks and in the case of hacking heat in the municipalities. If one, two green, blue, or sometimes red mandates sit inside, they are opposed because they do not allow farmers to pursue a sustainable energy policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP stands for an exit from nuclear energy and for the expansion of renewable energies. Tomorrow, a new eco electricity law will be implemented. Our words follow actions. The opposition is verbal, but we will measure it by its actions.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e11880	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e11901	Madam President. Minister for Agriculture! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Watchers! Mr Wöinger, I am a little surprised now. I come from Güssing, which is now in all mouths. I can still remember who was against it all when it started. Who is all for it now and has always known it? [[Abg. Wöger: What?! What?! Who was against it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Grill: Who was against it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Now all at once we want to take people from all over the world there. They're coming anyway. [[Abg. Grill: Maybe you were against it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Wöger: Who was against it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Now listen!]] – I worked there, it wouldn’t have been so productive. We Greens have been preaching for years that we finally have to switch to renewable energy. Come to Fukushima now You insist that you might be able to show this, and then all of a sudden everything is different. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wöger: Who was against it?! Who was against Güssing?- Oh, my God!]] – Ask the parties, they will tell you this. The mayor was the only one, but he has also been abandoned in his own party. [[Abg. Eßl: Say who was against it!]] I believe that we also need to speak with a strong voice at EU level. It is only then that this vote should be really strong, and not half of the bells of words, as they exist in the Council of Ministers' decision and also in the request that your speech has weakened again. [[The speaker turns to Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich um]] There is no longer a word to find that there should be really independent experts in this stress test. There is no word for the atomic lobbyist bowl, the eco electricity law is not mentioned with any word. That's all too little. This is not a strong voice that we now need at EU level. We must act at EU level because there is now a need to act there. We Greens do so too, we are talking to Greens in all EU countries. I didn't talk until last week, and you hear the same thing everywhere. People everywhere are told that there are the safest power plants in the world – in France, in the Netherlands, in Germany, also in Japan, everywhere. But there's a certain amount of residual risk. How high this residual risk is, we've seen on TV now. I think it's too high in any case. I don't want to hear about any more residual risk and probability in relation to nuclear power. I've experienced it twice in my life, and I think that's enough. From this insanity technology, which we do not have under control, which only destroys our planet, we must finally get out of it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It has already been addressed a few times today, but again to illustrate: Such a thing, as we now see on television about Japan, can happen to us in Austria at any time. We are surrounded by risk power plants: Krško is located on an earthquake line, Neckarwestheim in Germany is at risk of earthquake, Paks in Hungary, Mochovce and Bohunice in Slovakia, Dukovany – they have no protective cover, far less than the nuclear power plant in Japan. Seedwater reactors of the same type as Fukushima are located along the border. There are very many old, over 30 years old, reactors. These are the reactors from which the Atom Lobby Supervisory Council members are still taking out the remaining profits. These are high-risk reactors. You're shutting off right now. Minister for Agriculture! I don't need a stress test. This risk is clearly too high, that is known. There is no stress test for which the atomic lobby will anyway be subject to the criteria itself. After that, one has to take a long-term plan to get out of nuclear power in general to shut down one power plant after another. Every power plant that goes from the grid opens the door to renewable energies. Nuclear power plants are blocking the expansion of renewables. When power plants leave the grid, there will be a boom in renewables. One thing is clear: Those who are against nuclear power must be for eco-current, and those who are against eco-strom are ultimately for nuclear power. In Austria we have an atomic current share of 15 percent. This federal government has a significant share of the fact that green electricity is being insulated by us in Austria and thus the nuclear current is also in place. In Austria, we have an eco electricity blockade law, which was also passed with the votes of the FPÖ. Last year, a two-thirds majority was needed, which you produced very cheaply. For this we now have waiting times until 2024 in the field of photovoltaics. So, I don't know who's talking about green electricity blockade. That's certainly not how the ecostrom boom looks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Then ask the industry! They will not be able to claim to the eco electricity industry that it has good conditions in Austria. The eco electricity industry in Austria is very well on the go despite the adverse conditions, and not because we have such good conditions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Austria, unfortunately, has also taken on an immeasurable role at EU level. First, we do not achieve our goals in the field of eco electricity. We should have had 78 percent of green electricity in 2010 but unfortunately only reached 70 percent. The difference is exactly a power plant like Temelín. That means that we have to be responsible. In addition, Austria has committed itself to the fact that there are low targets for renewable energy at EU level, but in the field of eco electricity, there are no targets at all. Clear targets for the expansion of eco electricity are the only means to push back nuclear power. That is why my question to you, Mr Agriculture Minister, is: Will you continue to work to ensure that there are clear ambitious eco electricity targets at EU level, yes or no? Another point – this also concerns the Federal Chancellor – is: Will you put a veto in the Council this week against 20 billion euros being added to the ITER fusion project? Unfortunately, the Minister of Science has already agreed. I expect the Chancellor to take it back and change it. Over the next ten years, €20 billion will be put into a project that is absurd and nobody knows where it will lead. Besides, it's dangerous. I think anyone who wants to make 20 million € for a crazy project doesn't need to talk about the cost of renewable energy at all. If we give up the subsidies, we count the costs of accidents and end-to-end storage problems honestly! Then we'll experience an energy revolution, then I'm sure I'm not worried about the renewables anymore. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is clear that every cent, which now only somehow flows into the nuclear industry, is a lost cent and harms the renewable, although it would have been much better lifted there. It is now about investing in security and other things, but I think that the atomic lobby, the nuclear industry, should finally pay for it itself. How does the public, which already has to take the risks into account, get involved? Each company must guarantee its safety and stand up for it, the atomic lobby gets it financed by the public. That's not to be seen at all, they're supposed to pay for it themselves. The renewables have so far had all the costs for research and so on to carry themselves, and I do not understand that the atomic lobby is always favored. That's to stop right now. Finally, just a short while to the comments you gave for the request: I believe it makes a difference whether a Member of this House, in which there is an anti-atomic consensus, is also sitting on the Supervisory Board of a nuclear group, which was the main driver of the extension of the term in Germany and is now considering bringing an action against Chancellor Merkel for the decommissioning of reactors in Germany. As a member of the Supervisory Board of RWE, Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel deserves more than twice as much as he earns as a Member of this House. Who, do you think, will he feel a prioritized commitment? I would have liked to hear the answer to this question. Moreover, I do not think that he should deposit his Supervisory Board position at RWE. I think this train has left. He has clearly declared which side he is on, he is on the side of the atomic lobby. He has not lost anything in a parliament with anti-atomic consensus, that is unbearable. I demand his resignation once again. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Grosz.]] Again to Euratom: You say you can use membership to talk there. How long do you want to wait there? This has not succeeded in recent years and decades. Many citizens have opposed membership of Euratom, which has been hindered by the Federal Government. Even today, they did not agree to our request that the initiators of popular desire should be given the opportunity to present their concerns in the house. There has been today a rally in front of Parliament, which has already looked quite different – also from public interest – than those just before the disaster in Fukushima. I think you will not be able to escape these people in the long run, and I simply think it is scandalous that the Parliament simply refuses the discourse with committed citizens. The Federal Chancellor wants to launch a citizens' initiative, but at the same time we do not even want to talk to citizens who are already engaged in this House today. We are absolutely calling for this to be done. And by the way, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12089	Now comes Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12111	Madam President. High house! My dear viewers here in the hall and at home on the televisions! If you follow the debate recently, you really get the feeling that Austria is a show country. We are always told: We are against nuclear power, we have no nuclear power plants, we have never locked up Zwentendorf either. What all of this is happening to nuclear energy is not really all about us. In reality, however, we have a nuclear power plant. We have a nuclear power plant! It's just not in Austria, it's in Temelín. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: In Krško!]] That is because we import the entire electricity production of Temelín, and even more than that. That is to say, our nuclear power plants stand around our country. And now I'm wondering, What makes it sense not to lock up Zwentendorf, but to support Temelín, to support Krško, to support Paks? What makes sense?- Oh, my God! That is why a little less falsehood would be appropriate in the debate from my point of view. If we are already opposed to nuclear energy, we must also be against nuclear power imports, and not, just as the composite and others do, operate huge nuclear power washing machines in Austria. I looked at that in detail. During the night, when everyone is asleep, nuclear power is imported from Temelín, Krško, Paks and how they are all hot. Thus, for example, water is pumped up in Kaprun, and then, during the day when the electricity is used, the water is discharged and the electricity produced with it is then sold to Germany or elsewhere as an eco electricity. You have to imagine that! So we import atomic current, wash it clean, make it eco electricity and export it again. That is why this debate would be a little less misleading. And if we are already against nuclear energy, we must also prevent nuclear power imports, because otherwise it is lying. In fact, we don't need nuclear power, either, if we were to use the savings potential we have in Austria: in the household about 30 percent, in industry, around 7 to 10 percent, depending on the calculation. In street lighting alone, we could save 50 percent energy. If we were to raise all these treasures, we would not need nuclear power imports, then we would even have surpluses. So we could export our hydropower and thus actually export clean electricity instead of adding the label eco-label to clean washed nuclear currents in order to blind German consumers. Let us take a look at the arguments put forward in the past. It's always called, without a nuclear current, the current coming out of the socket is expensive. Is nuclear power really cheap? – Yes, there is cheap nuclear current, there is. However, this comes from the old power plants, which comes from power plants that have been designed for 30 years, and are still running after 40 years or longer. With these duration extensions, by expressing the last kilowatt hour from every old power plant, one has managed to produce cheap atomic current, and with this cheap atomic current is now argued. It means: If we don't, the current will be much more expensive. – The truth, however, looks quite different. The truth is that new nuclear power plants are no longer favourable. We are talking about costs of 8 cents per kilowatt hour – these are just the cost of production. If I still charge the entire environmental pollution and damage, we are already at €2 per kilowatt hour. If I only calculate the 8 cents per kilowatt hour, then it's still more than wind power costs. It's more than hydropower costs. It's still more than biomass costs; I get it by 5, 6 cents. So new nuclear power plants are no longer cheap. Cheap are only the old nuclear power plants, the old power plants, whose construction at the time the taxpayer has paid, which have since been depreciated and now continue to hang on the grid with catastrophic safety standards – like Fukushima! Fukushima – the least known – is such an old reactor, which was designed for 30 years and for which there has been a duration extension. This extension has been authorised under conditions. Do you know what happened? – The operator Tepco simply did not stick to it. They just didn't do all the maintenance plans, everything there was in terms of conditions. That's where we stand today! Many say nuclear power is indispensable. It's not 6 percent, it's only 2 percent. Considering the world's entire energy needs, nuclear energy accounts for only 2%. We can now simply calculate this: If we save only 3 per cent of the total energy, then we could substitute or make nuclear energy superfluous. So simple is the bill! If there is talk of cheap nuclear energy, in my view the word “cheeful” is absolutely no longer appropriate in the future. [[Abg. Head: That's an argument!]] – No, it’s no longer an argument in the future! [[Abg. Head: Some others have already done it!]] If the people who have died so far due to the peaceful use of nuclear energy in Chernobyl and elsewhere, and divide this number through the years that we have already used peaceful nuclear power, we come to 1,000 to 3,000 people a year, depending on the calculation. Every year, 1 000 to 3,000 people die from the effects of nuclear power! Now they die unfortunately, or thank God not every year, but death abounds in major accidents. As we have already heard from Mr Glavischnig today, this happens every 23 to 30 years according to probability. So this is deliberately being purchased! It's being purchased that people die! This is deliberately purchased by the atomic lobbys, by the nuclear producers. Many say: Yes, these are accidents; that once it was human failure, the other time it was just too old a power plant, and it will all get much better! However, people also die in normal operation. Many do not know this at all, but around the world's nuclear power plants, people who live in the environment of these power plants also die in normal operation. There is a 2007 study by the German Radiation Federation, which clearly established that child mortality due to cancer has increased significantly in the context of nuclear power plants. So people die without any accident. Imagine a single mother with a small child. It moves near a nuclear power plant because the rents there are cheap; you have to see that too! Who lives near a nuclear power plant? – These are people who cannot afford expensive rent. So this mother moves near an atom power plant, and a few years later the diagnosis comes from blood cancer, lymph gland cancer in her child. – What do you think this mother is like when you hear from politicians that this is a victim we have to deliver because of the cheap electricity, because of security of supply. – Do we really have to? Do we really have to bring this victim? Every year so many children die of the consequences of this disease! Finally, let us stop giving ourselves more papally than the Pope! If we say that we do not want nuclear energy, then we must not import either. And if we import nuclear power, we can also lock up Zwentendorf. That would be honest at least because we have nuclear energy in Austria, whether it is produced in Austria or right beyond the border, there is no significant significance. It is crucial that: We consume them, we need them, we get them into our pumped storage power plants, and that's unfair. One question to the conclusion: Many will ask themselves: Why is there – nuclear current is no longer cheap, nuclear current is dangerous if one calculates the follow-up costs it is priceless – a renaissance of nuclear energy? Why do many politicians say it's stuck to nuclear power? Why is that so? That's what many people are asking. [[Abg. Grosz: Because they pay enough for it!]] The answer is simple – Mr. Strasser has shown us how it works – the matter is quite simple: The nuclear industry is looking for one, two, ten, twenty, one hundred, one, 100 000 € per capita per year – perhaps at a 200 000 €, while the other only 50 000 €, depending on price. [[Abg. Grosz: The ÖVP already has at least two!]] – and then politics is made for the nuclear industry! Unfortunately, it works in this country, and so it works in Europe and so it works worldwide. That is why we must finally stop giving the atomic lobby this power. We must stop to tolerate people in our midst who are on the salary list of nuclear companies. That's what we have to stop! This is a commandment of cleanliness. As long as we import first nuclear current in Austria and have second lobbyist on the salary list of nuclear companies, we do not need to point out to others with our finger. [[Abg. Wenninger: Who's on the payroll list?]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We must first do the homework tasks in our own country, and only then, if we no longer import nuclear power, can we talk on this matter and give other good advice.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12234	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12255	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Representatives of the Federal Government! We have already debated nuclear policy intensively at this point three weeks ago. At that time it was already about the exit from the Euratom Treaty. The shocking events in Japan have given sad topicality to this issue. We liberals were the first in Austria to deal very intensively with the abandonment of nuclear energy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Already in 1972, the then liberal energy speaker Gerulf Stix spoke out in a debate in the direction – I can quote it here –: Do we today really want people to do what we can to do? - No, of course not. - Quote. Even then, this critical question has triggered a heated discussion. I quote: It is even our duty as a politician, an uncertain development which we are now forced to view as negative, to really oppose. As responsible people's representatives, we must do everything in our power to combat what we have recognized as false. - Quote. As we noted 40 years ago, nuclear energy has proved to be a dead end. The super-GAU in Chernobyl has proved this, and Fukushima has made it clear to us once again. The exit from the Euratom Treaty would have been a clear sign to Europe that we do not want to continue this path. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would also have been a clear signal that we see this in Austria differently from the rest of Europe. It would be a clear commitment to sustainable, safe energy development in Austria. Unfortunately, however, our government parties SPÖ and ÖVP are still unable to get through the right path. The conclusion from the events can only be that Austria generates more energy from renewable energy sources in order to show and develop independence. Fossil energy sources are also limited, so we have to rely on new sources of energy. The greatest potential with us in Austria is, of course, hydropower. It is therefore urgent to deduct all financial resources from nuclear energy and put one into hydropower or into technologies that promote alternative energies such as wind power and solar energy. However, this is a prerequisite for the exit from the Euratom Treaty. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We experience the exit from the exit in Europe and worldwide. Nuclear power is being forced again. I fear that the nuclear lobby will not be taken away from it either by the incidents in Japan. It is precisely because of this that policy is required to set clear limits and finally to bring about a turnaround. While in Japan the population hopes to escape the radiant death again, Austria still imports more nuclear power than Zwentendorf could have produced at that time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Last but not least, let me express the hope that even from this tragic catastrophe there will be something good and that mankind will finally come to mind that there will be a return and that we will preserve this planet for many more generations, for Austria and for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12358	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12423	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12444	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The events in Japan are very deeply affecting us and lead us in a terrible way to see how invincible nuclear power is. Increased radiation levels are not only found in the nuclear power plants, but increased radiation has already been found in food, in marine water, but also in drinking water. You can imagine the consequences. They all know the consequences of Chernobyl. Japan will, and this is to be feared, continue to suffer from this disaster for many years. I would like to read to you a quote from the “time”, which actually summarizes very well what is to be said about nuclear power: “The catastrophe in Japan is ringing the end of the nuclear human dream, which has long since become a nightmare. Nowhere in the world is a serious disposal site for the radiant waste in sight, no nuclear milestone is safe from sabotage or terrorist attacks, most nuclear power plants do not even stop plane crashes.” And then we're going to go on: “This technique is invincible. She doesn't forgive any mistakes. She's inhuman. And that’s why I don’t use it.” – I think that’s a good thing. So there is only one way to avoid these dangers in a sustainable way, and that is the immediate initiation of a Europe-wide nuclear exodus, because that is the only safe variant. I am very pleased that the Federal Government has today adopted an action plan to this end and thus reaffirmed its commitment to such an exit. However, the disaster in Japan also shows us very clearly that the threat from atomic radiation is not limited. In Austria, we have known this for a long time and have therefore spoken out against the use of nuclear power for a good reason a long time ago. For us, however, the question arises as to how, above all, we can convince the nuclear advocates. We can run against the wall without damage to the wall, or we can consider how we can tear down the wall. This requires a joint effort and not attempts to get political change out of it. Each of us is required to do persuasive work in its environment and with its respective possibilities for this nuclear exodus that we want and seek. Ladies and gentlemen! This also applies to our activities in Euratom. Let us now assume that we will leave Euratom immediately. What would that do? – First, there would probably be a long-term dispute, and even if the exit would be legally possible: What situation would we be in then? We would have to look at the way in which the nuclear states behaved among themselves. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So we'd run against the wall instead of tearing it down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Our goal must be to achieve a Europe-wide nuclear exodus. That is why today there has been a motion for a resolution by us and our coalition partner, which includes many points, such as the call for an Euratom Treaty revision conference. It is also a matter of massively strengthening security research at the expense of other areas of the research programme. We support the use of the Euratom research programme exclusively for nuclear safety research, risk research and radiation protection. We demand a rigorous security check, these so-called stress tests, if you want. We also demand that this “stress test” is not only mandatory, but that, if it fails negatively, it should also have immediate consequences. Ladies and gentlemen! With the support of the population, we can achieve these objectives – I have just explained some of the measures we are calling for. I think we should work together to achieve these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12520	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12542	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I also want to express my sincere compassion to the Japanese people, especially those people who have lost family members who have lost friends, and especially those Japanese who have lost all their possessions and possessions. [[Call:Not “especially”]] Ladies and gentlemen, this disaster in Japan has shown us that man cannot calculate all risks. Even experts and risk researchers have not been able to foresee the extent of this disaster, which is known to have been triggered by a terrible earthquake. This disaster has shown us that nature and, as a result, dangerous technology cannot be controlled. I would also like to thank Foreign Minister Spindelegger and his employees, who – which has already been mentioned today – have really provided an example for the Austrians in Japan. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all: The ÖVP has always been and is always against nuclear power plants. [[Call:Yes]] We've proved that over and over again. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] You can mention here so often our Wolfgang Schüssel, who is sitting in a Supervisory Board, I tell you the following: Other members of this House are also in a Supervisory Board of Energie AG. In this context, I would mention, for example, Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker, who sits in Upper Austria on the Supervisory Board of Energie AG, and I do not think that Upper Austria is importing no nuclear current. We need more and more energy. It has already been mentioned by a number of Members: In the household we consume much more electricity than we would have to consume, whether through computers, other household appliances, mobile phones, televisions and so on, not least of course also by heating. The energy requirement of heating is particularly high. In about 40 percent per household are consumed for heat. How can we meet this demand for electricity? – With the greens, the electricity comes out of the socket – that has already been said by a Member of Parliament today – because: [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Not with you? With you, the current comes from somewhere else!]] The Greens are yes, that has already been mentioned, against wind energy. The Greens do not want to expand the hydropower either – I am thinking of the hydropower of the Mur, south of Graz; the Greens are against this expansion, I do not understand at all. Other examples have already been mentioned. However, we of the ÖVP have an answer, and this answer is called energy strategy. [[Abg. Brosz: It's called Ernst Strasser!]] Over 150 experts have been involved in this energy strategy and have developed numerous measures that really support this energy strategy. [[Abg. Brosz: Was there the bowl? Did he cooperate?]] Energy efficiency – it has already been said today: a very essential point – the expansion of renewable energy and security of supply, of course these three priorities also result in a large number of measures that we will have to decide and implement here in the House, for example in the area of thermal rehabilitation. [[Abg. May. Brunner: What did you do?]] We know that through thermal renovation we can save 10 to 20 percent of the energy needs. In order to implement the thermal renovation across the board, we also need to adapt the rental and housing laws. I am very excited about how a number of Members will act here in this House when it comes to implementing these measures – as in many other measures, by the way. We want to deal responsibly with nature, the environment and people. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to join us in implementing the measures of this energy strategy. We will measure you all by your behavior here. Show that you want more than populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12645	Mr Pirklhuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12666	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Madam President. The colleague of the ÖVP has now spoken really gruelingly about responsibility. I'm a little surprised. Mrs. Colleague, when did you write this speech? That must have been a few days ago, certainly before your party colleague Ernst Strasser's resignation, because this kind of cynicism, which exists with you, is obviously buying those who pay – and for that there is now enough evidence – and then you take the word "responsibility" into your mouth today, is already enormous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti]] What you give of yourself is very ironic! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But in one point – we have already exchanged enough arguments – there is consensus: The exit from nuclear energy is necessary, it is necessary! This is consensus in the Austrian population and civil society and also in Austrian politics, but where there is no – and there we have to do – is in implementation, in the way it is implemented. Finally, the dependence on fossil energy and atomic energy is the real time bomb that is currently ticking – it ticks at all levels of international politics. We have them every day in front of us on the screen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually the insanity and the challenge because we have to live this exit crediblely. This is the challenge facing this federal government. We need a clear signal: a signal for the beginning of the solar age, the entry into a solar revolution. This is a revolution, ladies and gentlemen. Why? – Because we have to put the entire energy supply of our society on new feet, with some very concrete cornerstones: It needs to become more citizens-friendly because solar energy is decentralized, and this is crisis prevention because energy can be produced in local communities. We must finally get into the field of energy efficiency. There are no binding energy efficiency targets to date. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this is also the challenge in the context of the expansion of renewable energy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] First of all, it is said to really implement energy efficiency, to live daily and to pour into concrete measures. And you, Federal Minister Berlakovich, have not contributed anything to this. There are no binding European standards for more energy efficiency to date, there are no binding targets for it, and this is actually the sad chapter: that you, as Minister for the Environment, stand before the Austrian people, even before us – and for some time now – talk about energy autarchy, but then, when it comes to making nails with heads, old ideas come from the moth box. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Gritish]] That's a fact. Your stress test is the stress you might have because you don't bring together new ideas and no alliances. It is no secret that this technology is more than uncertain that this form of energy is nuclear energy, which is crisis technology, which is risk technology. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] – You think I'm unbelievable with this, I heard it with an ear. Look, it won't be better if you just do one PR action after another, and then you ask yourself and ask the population. What's changed? [[Abg. Grill: Wolfgang, hydropower!]] The Federal Minister travels through the area, announces the energy turnaround and everything possible, and if you ask: Where's the Ecostrom Act? Where are the efficiency targets? Where is the exodus conference from the nuclear energy?, then it says silently, then it says putting the head in the sand, panting behind the Chancellor, hiding behind the vice chancellor, running away from the Minister of Economic Affairs. – This is the policy you have been running for years, and we cannot support it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: Pirklhuber, why are you against hydropower?]] On a point which has not yet been discussed, namely the contamination of foodstuffs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually the long-term disaster that is going on, because radioactive radiation, because nuclear particles are enriching in the food chain, and that means, even if the containment and everything is somehow poured into sand and concrete, the radioactivity will finally reach the seas and so on into the food chain, and through global trade up to us. [[Abg. Grill: What is against hydropower?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is also the nail sample for European food import policy. It will be necessary to see how radioactive pollution will increase in this area. Why is the Austrian Federal Government so unbelievable? Both ministers have today commented on the European strategy. It has already been mentioned – and can only be repeated again and again – that the current EU Energy Strategy 2020 clearly expresses itself positively in terms of nuclear power. [[Abg. Grill: Why are you against hydropower?]] This positive wording is due to a Member of this House, namely Old Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, who in 2006 as President-in-Office of the Council strongly supported the inclusion of nuclear power as a low-carbon energy source in the energy package. I will now quote from this EU energy strategy. It's just necessary. The Federal Minister has still not read this, so I have to read it to him: “At present, nearly 45% of European electricity generation is based on low-carbon energy sources – mainly nuclear” – sic! – “and hydropower. In certain parts of the EU, more than one third of the production capacity could be lost by 2020 due to the limited lifetime of the installations concerned, meaning nuclear power plants. This means that existing capacities need to be replaced and expanded.’ Ladies and gentlemen, this is the strategy behind which this Federal Minister of the Environment, as the Minister of the Environment, is constantly squatting and claiming that renewable energies are being driven forward there. The fact is that the Commission – and this EU energy strategy – is a hundred percent behind nuclear energy. ‘Action 2’ states: The EU will have to retain its “controlling role in the field of safe nuclear energy” and “help to contribute to responsible use of nuclear energy worldwide”. This is the Commission's offensive strategy to criticise the EU's energy strategy for more nuclear power in Europe – and this Federal Minister has not yet found any words, even today, to question this strategy. – That’s the first thing I expect from him! [[Abg. Grillitsch: We expect you to tell us now that you are for hydropower!]] If you really are for renewable energies, you have to question this strategy. I believe that the Federal Chancellor is more likely to work for at least a European citizens' initiative, and he also has our support. There's a lot you can do, too. I've been waiting there, too. Will you quickly create a European citizens' initiative and the conditions for it in Austria, so that it will be easy for citizens to join, participate without bureaucratic obstacles? - Not a word for that either. Lip confessions on one side: Yes, yes, we want a popular desire, a popular survey, a vote!, but when it comes to the nails you have to bear heads when it comes to really creating this possibility in Austria, which is unbureaucratic, you have also failed. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mr Pirklhuber, on hydropower!]] [[Abg. May. Schönegger: A word for hydropower!]] [[Abg. Grill: A sentence to the hydropower!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say: Out of Euratom history means pure renewable energy. There needs to be a European initiative. I call on you, Mr Environment Minister, to organise a European exit conference in Vienna, to use your place of business, to invite colleagues from those countries to Vienna, who are still working without nuclear power. There are seven or eight countries that are undoubtedly still without nuclear energy, which do not intend to install nuclear power plants. So far, you've just given one of your own: It stands at 26 : 1. They have not yet taken a step towards bringing those countries into the boat, which do not have nuclear power in their own country as we do. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: Once “water power”!]] In conclusion: The specific actions before the European Court of Justice will be more than overdue. It is possible, however, to bring a corresponding injunction before the European Court of Justice on account of Temelín, Isar 1 and other insecure nuclear power plants at the border. That would also be a command of the hour. - They're not doing anything. Head in the sand and lip confession, that's too little!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12887	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12909	Madam President. High house! This government is in the truest sense of the word energy policy with its back to the wall. What would be necessary would be a step forward – together with the opposition, together with the people in this country – in order to make Europe energy self-sufficient and get out of nuclear power, but this government lacks courage. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The only thing she repeats in prayer is that she wants out of the nuclear current – but not from Euratom – and pure in renewable energies. However, she lives on a daily basis that she herself does exactly the opposite of what she speaks, and that is, in fact, strictly opposed. Euratom – € 40 million a year, some say up to € 100 million. Let's take 40 million! Mr Ostermayer – he is behind me on the government bank – € 40 million is paid for 15 years for 500 to 600 million for the nuclear economy of Europe – and not for renewable energy or for jobs here in Austria. We have often discussed the legal aspects. You have a five-page paper, an opinion of the Federal Chancellery. We have legal experts, international lawyers on our side, who say that leaving Euratom is very possible, only you do not, and that is the serious accusation that this government must be made: that it finds beautiful words that it makes fun of the opposition and says that it is aggressive. Mr Ostermayer says we are aggressive. Yes, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, you have made numerous requests from the opposition to the committees – substantive applications for nuclear exodus, for renewable energy, for the exit from Euratom. Why vote You're not too close to that? These are the things that people outside don't understand anymore. I have here an article from the “Kronen Zeitung” showing what is going on in Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Salzburg. There is a study that is being closed down, and you, Minister, have this study. You know what's in it. I quote: “The study on behalf of the countries of Lower Austria, Upper Austria and Salzburg sees shortcomings in the German nuclear power plants Brunsbüttel, Isar 1, Krümmel and Phillippsburg, which could not be corrected by retrofitting measures.” What does that mean? These are basic, basic security measures which cannot be corrected by retrofitting. If something happens out there, the only thing they can offer is the early warning system. They can see how in 90 minutes the radioactive cloud is with them, but nothing else. They have no protection for the citizens, and they have not actively done anything about it before. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This package, which you have presented today, is not worth legal, because you have the opportunity, for example, to demand the EIA procedure properly in Temelín, in the form of a infringement procedure. They could also sue the extension of blocks 3 and 4 in Mochovce in the form of an EU infringement procedure. They could combat the extension of the term in the Federal Republic of Germany accordingly. They could also demand a strategic environmental review there on their own. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich and State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer talk to each other.]] And don't step behind me! You could do it, but you don't. The value of this government bundle – and this must be maintained – has already been reviewed by an expert today – by an expert who is recognized by all parties, namely Radko Pavlovec. [[Abg. New builder: Not from me!]] I quote: “The Anti-Atom Action Plan adopted on Tuesday by the Federal Government is “completely worthless” for the energy expert Radko Pavlovec. It criticises, in particular, that there are no steps to be taken against nuclear power plants without contamination." Further: ‘The programme is ‘only a non-conformised weighting therapy’ [...]. The government has announced steps for which it does not at all have the necessary enforcement competence." Finally, it says: “In return, it had not decided at all other points which would be very likely to be within its scope – such as infringement proceedings against Slovakia, Germany and the Czech Republic – Pavlovec is criticising.” – And that’s exactly what the opposition wants, that’s exactly what the BZÖ wants – but obviously not the government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If the Upper Austrian Wöginger turns out here from the ÖVP and thinks that the ÖVP wants the expansion of renewable energies and the out for nuclear power, I tell him quite clearly in the face: The ÖVP and also the SPÖ do exactly the opposite in their daily actions. They want the expansion of nuclear power and renewable energy in Austria. These points are constantly confirmed, supported – with Euratom, with the non-statutory in legal matters. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that is exactly the point! You give Sunday speeches and you don't act at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You are for nuclear power, you are hindering renewable energies, and your former party observer is even capsing from the atomic lobby. Well, what else do you want? – There is nothing more to prove. That's a fact. To conclude: I expect that this government will finally be energetic at European level and that a country's energy mix can no longer be just a national issue. The cause of a state is security, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. This is true, including in our constitution, and this should also be the basis for the European Union. "Security" was the EU's key word. This must also apply to atomic safety. That's what I'm asking myself: Where are the villains? Are these those who perhaps no longer have to supply oil and therefore take bombardments into account, as decided in a questionable UN resolution, or are villain states those countries that negligently challenge our lives and our children and children by nuclear power in Europe? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12977	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e12999	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that I would also like to see the Minister of Health present here on the Government Bank on such an important issue, which concerns in particular the impact of this catastrophe on human organism and human health. He'll know why he's not here. Ladies and gentlemen, since the discovery of radioactivity we have known two outstanding features. One thing is controllable, the other is uncontrollable. The dominant feature is a blessing, we know it from medicine, from radiation therapy, from X-ray diagnostics. The non-controllable feature – we are already talking about it all day – is the nuclear force. I do not have to repeat these many arguments that speak against the nuclear power we have heard today. The cost-benefit question regarding nuclear power is clearly negative. The long-term medical consequences, the cost of nature, the economy, are simply no relation to the economic efficiency of a nuclear power plant. It is hard to say why the nuclear power after Chernobyl has again experienced such a renaissance in 1986. This probably has a lot to do with the CO2 discussion, which we often lead very uncritically here too. A turbo exit – it was calculated – would cost around 230 billion € in Germany. These 230 billion € are undoubtedly a lot of money. But a side-by-side remark: €700 billion has been loosened yesterday for the Euro Rescue Screen. We clearly see the conditions here. The exit is, of course, feasible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Security must go against economics. Mr Berlakovich, you have spoken a lot about the fact that They are all now for a possible exit from nuclear power, and they are based on the stress test to be carried out across Europe. I would like to ask you if you have already read the German Federal Government's reflections on the consequences of this nuclear accident in Fukushima, namely the safety review of German nuclear power plants and the re-evaluation of the review criteria of 16. ==References== This clearly calls for new measures, concrete measures and retrofitting damage scenarios and a general re-evaluation of risks. These are, if they were implemented in such a way, so drastic in the consequence that in Germany every nuclear power plant would have to be shut down, says Wolfgang Renneberg, the former head of the Federal Atomic Supervision, who also states quite placibly: “If I were a terrorist, I would crack the pipes outside and then I would shoot the emergency power diesel with a rocket. And then it was." These points are very worrying, and I believe that this story with the stress tests is something that is going to happen again in the sand and will not be taken seriously by those who actually need it. I am also surprised that no speaker today has mentioned the study commissioned by Greenpeace, entitled “Margins and Safety Risks of Nuclear Power Plant Load Management”. That's why I'm doing that now. It is said that, according to the law, alternative energy sources are called on, in particular in Germany, to feed the electricity into the control grid. If there is a surplus of electricity generation, nuclear power plants will have to be shut down. This leads to an up and downhill and uphill. This type of load, the stress of nuclear power plants, has in no way been taken into account in any form today in the stress test. I would like to address something else that I feel is a little scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, people need to be able to rely on the Federal Government to provide an emergency plan for such disasters and that disaster protection actually works. When we take Chernobyl, we know that taking iodine tablets was an effective protection. We have clear and clear guidelines in this regard, which also dictates in Austria how this should work. However, I would just like to explain this very briefly: For people up to 18 years old. The iodine tablets should be kept in stock for a lifetime. In case of an emergency, these tablets are also given free of charge. In the age class from 18 to 40 years of age, a stockpiling should also be given, however, which is to be paid for the patients. At present, it looks as if there would be no need to cover the age of 18 to 40 years, because there is no one who is currently importing or selling these tablets. Even more catastrophic and truly scandalous is it that in a circular letter from the Ministry of Health it means that public pharmacies, house pharmacies and the like these tablets to target groups children, young people up to the age of 18. Life, pregnant women and breastfeeding have to be spent free of charge. I've made the effort and gotten myself such packs. You know what's on it? – Due date 12/2009. We now have March 2011! These tablets are no longer sold. I don't get her for free. The pharmacy's giving it to me. Now the Ministry is going, issuing a decree with the reference to the fact that the Federal Office for Safety in Health has just dated it, and says: It's all right anyway. You can take it quietly by the end of 2011. I'm just telling you, in Austria, medicines will be destroyed immediately when they have expired. Not even in Africa in emergency areas are we allowed to send expired drugs. However, we feel that our important target groups – children, adolescents, pregnant women and breastfeeding – have run out of medicines. I'm telling you, this is a scandal, and it comes to the fact that there has also been a restructuring in the ministry. I would like to say this critically at this point. The Director-General for Public Health has been praised and replaced by a woman with a woman in quota, and then opinions are followed. I think that's a scandal. The last word is certainly not yet spoken.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13090	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13111	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Highly esteemed Members! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, allow me, because of the apocalyptic events that took place in Japan, to be triggered by an earthquake in unimaginable proportion and the disastrous consequences that the tsunami has caused, to express my sympathy for the people affected that they are experiencing extremely difficult times. I think that human beings are the most important thing at all in this context. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a very delicate subject today. Despite all this, it must be noted that Austria has chosen a very different, positive path here and that anti-atomic policy in this House is consensual in itself. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, that alone is not enough! There is a need for clear strategies that will lead Austria to an energy future that is orderly with clear objectives. Therefore, there is also a corresponding energy strategy of the Republic of Austria, where there are clear targets by 2020. One goal is to achieve 34 percent renewable energy; Target two is 16 percent CO2 reduction; and target three is to increase energy efficiency by 20 percent, i.e. one fifth of the energy will be saved in this context. The most important element, ladies and gentlemen, in which professionally competent discussion of this topic is awareness-building throughout the population. This begins in schools, deals with various subjects related to this topic, and means serious information and opinion education. If we are aware that we can save around 200 petajules of energy from starting in 2005 to 2020, we know: This is a huge dimension and, in order to achieve this objective, it requires appropriate framework conditions and measures. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that in 2005 around 496 to 500 petajules of oil were used in Austria. The target definition for 2020 is 362 petajoule – a significant reduction. From my point of view, it is the approach to increase the renewable energy sector from currently 282 petajoule to 395 petajoule. This means a balance between the use of oil and the use of renewable energy sources by 2020. Together, we can be proud that the Austrian Republic's energy flow image already shows that 30 percent of our total energy needs are covered by renewable energy, of which 50 percent from hydropower and 50 percent from biomass. It is also noteworthy that Austria's share of electricity production is very small compared to the European Union. Austria produces a maximum of 2 per cent of the electricity demand, but has an extremely high share in the hydropower sector, and – and this is clearly stated here – has enormous resources when it comes to storage power plants. This, in turn, is very important in terms of the expansion of wind energy. Many positive approaches have been adopted here today and target formulations have been maintained, but in future action will have to be taken to measure what is happening. I was very irritated – and this was clearly stated here – that, as part of an UFI meeting, a Commission meeting on environmental promotion in the country, where 100 million € were set for thermal insulation measures, thermal rehabilitation measures for the next year, with a massive boost for the economy, but also an important impulse for the climate protection sector, was not unanimously approved. I must say with regret that Mrs Brunner was not present by the Greens, nor was he a substitute member of the Green Group, and the SPÖ unfortunately voted against. The liberals have with the voice of the Lord Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: We will have to set ourselves clearly and clearly on energy efficiency criteria, but actionism and populism are bad instruments for that. Only good matters in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13176	Mrs Dr. Moser is now speaking. 6 minutes Total residence time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13197	Madam President. Mr Umweltminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! “Split world” can be read on the title pages of international media. – Split attitude, divided words we hear here! Mr Hornek, I am right away with you when it comes to actions. Now! They say again and again: clear strategy, clear objectives – including the Minister for the Environment – and awareness-building! Only: Apply and make nails with heads, really put acts, we miss that! Minister, where is the Energy Efficiency Act? Where are the clear legal targets we want to meet? - That's missing! As I said, The actions count! This is our plea: If we want to be exemplary, if we really want to move forward in Europe towards renewable energy, energy future, then, please, actions are necessary – not strategies on paper, strategies for drawers or strategies in Sunday speeches, as they are often unfortunately here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We'll be right there with you. Mr Ostermayer, you have, in some cases, really answered the questions in an exemplary way. It's also a quality. Only: This quality must also be found in the international and national projects of the Federal Government in the various steps that are necessary. I should like to draw your attention to a detail that has not yet been discussed. We have already mentioned Euratom. It's clear that we should finally get out of there. However, the areas where Austrian companies, where Austrian banks participate internationally in the support of nuclear energy have not yet been addressed. Mr State Secretary, the Austrian Control Bank gives, as you know, external trade credits, export credits, including within the OECD, for the favourable provision of long-term capital for nuclear energy companies, for nuclear power plant renovations. These are promotions, which are also fed with Austrian capital, which we are very, very critical of, for in this we also see financial support for the extension of the life of old-cars, of dangerous Cars. This is, in our view, a dual or split attitude that we want to avoid in the sense of the people affected by this danger potential. I would like to point out another small thing, namely: I myself have been able to carry out investigations 12 years ago – I think it has been so long ago – in the vicinity of Chernobyl. I was in Kiev, bought mushrooms there on the market and was able to have these mushrooms examined – I even had it documented photographically. [[the speaker keeps a photograph up to date]] And that's where I had to find out: Ten years after Chernobyl's accident in the normal daily food pollution in Ukraine, it has certainly been a serious one. It's not everything worked out. And that's exactly what threatens us when the border-nearer AKWs Krško, Bohunice, Dukovany, Temelín, Isar, Block 2, et cetera no longer work as it is at present when there are incidents when radioactive material is released when earthquakes occur there et cetera. This is always being suppressed, and that is why my next plea, in addition to the financial side, is also to be addressed by international contract law. We must exercise all our weight in order to speed up the decommissioning of dangerous nuclear power stations in the vicinity of our state borders as quickly as possible. The Federal Republic of Germany is now taking the path of a moratorium of three months. We still owe this to Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary and Slovakia and also to the Czech Republic. There must be a massive advance in diplomatic initiatives. You all know, I don't need to repeat it: Nuclear power is not cheap. Nuclear current is just as expensive as eco-strom if you really calculate it. You only need to read it in “Format” on page 13, as it is specified on cents and commas. Mr State Secretary, it is urgently necessary that you make this your guideline also at international conferences and in the case of national capital allocations. Finally, one aspect or a reference, an answer to the colleagues from the ÖVP. Examples from Upper Austria: Under the government of the Greens in Upper Austria, there has been a special efficiency programme for small-scale power plants, for hydroelectric power plants that already exist, to increase efficiency in smaller rivers, in brooks. It is not to be seen that nature conservation is being sacrificed for a scenicly outstanding jewel such as the Niederranna area, for very small increases in electricity. The use of renewable energy needs to be differentiated, in so far as it is not allowed to be thrown overboard on one side of nature conservation and, on the other hand, it is unnecessary by efficiency of additional power plants, which are nevertheless not particularly efficient. Not only can it be called single-eyed or blind: Renewable, renewable, renewable energy!, but we also need to take the preservation of natural beauty seriously. And therefore our differentiated and ecologically sustainable process in Upper Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13313	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13337	Thank you, Madam President. High house! Mr State Secretary! I say: Enough paid – enough paid for this nuclear industry! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Austria is the third largest net payer in Europe. I urge the Federal Government to stop these payments until, at least once, we are presented with an exit plan by the EU, an exit plan that can be seen to mean that the EU wants to get out of nuclear energy seriously. We from the BZÖ demand real actions, which you have to put quite simply. We owe this to the Austrians! Mr Berlakovich, you say we have to help Japan with money, but we have to wall it on the other side. For example, just think back to the old eco electricity law; Minister Mitterlehner wants to present a new one next week. However, this must clearly go in the following direction: Away from the fact that the electricity companies make the profits – and to the fact that the population is the winners! In Austria we can increase renewable energy, we can expand photovoltaics, which is no problem at all. In Tyrol alone, there are 25 000 farms where farmers would like to be able to make themselves available as energy producers and to have photovoltaic plants installed on their farm roofs. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – No, these are all just flattites of yours, because, as you see in agriculture, you represent the interests of the RWE Group by the ÖVP – and as you can see, you only do lobbyism. The ÖVP comes, completely, to a lobbyist party, and it represents only the interests of corporations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] There, where the hydropower needs to be massively expanded, you also have to put action, because you can't in East Tyrol want to install the small waters that produce almost nothing from energy technology, but don't do anything in the large waters. [[Abg. Grill: In East Tyrol!]] In this respect, the ÖVP – I really have to say – has remained entirely guilty of actions. If you make a comparison, you can say: The nuclear power, like genetic engineering, is not controllable; this is exactly what University Professor Dr. Anton Moser of the University of Graz said some 14 days ago. But also there you wait for the ÖVP to happen until something happens until people are damaged. This is the policy of the ÖVP! I ask you again from the Federal Government: Take immediate action and make payments on the part of Austria! The EU should, immediately, put an exit plan on the table! Ladies and gentlemen, remember: It was Mr Uschi Haubner and we from the BZÖ who had already introduced a popular desire against the Temelín AKW in 2002. There have been 915 000 signatures for this – and these 915 000 people have, as it were, been trampled on by the ÖVP for nine years. This is not the right policy!, I can only say. And: Stop it at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13433	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. 6 minutes Total residence time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13455	Thank you, Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Welcome to the “irradiation survey”: Exciting spring here in the High House! Hiroshima, Nagasaki, Chernobyl – and now Fukushima. And: What's next? Who could see Mr. Ober-Lobbyist in the ORF yesterday when he said that 20,000 lobbyists were sitting in Brussels, who could also hear how he complained about his life and said that he was not for lubrication payments. This lobbyist has even pleaded for registrations, for regulations, laws and auditors – and probably also the again controllers need, and so on. In any case: If you listen to them like this, you're going to be bad. There Mr Strasser is perhaps a ornamental fish in the middle of sharks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Question: Where do the lobbyists stay for the voters? What I have heard today is to be rejected, because I assume that every Member of the National Council is a lobbyist for the voters on whose behalf he is sitting here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After this inferno in Japan – Tsunami, CFC explosion et cetera – stress tests are required, a popular desire is to be initiated by the “Kronen Zeitung”, but medially, the popular desire for Austria’s Euratom exit is blurring. The nuclear lobbyists have certainly been very pleased that nothing came out of it. Just cut it off, I guess. Then this Japanese disaster broke into – and there was also a change in the Earth's axis. You have to think about it, because that's something else that matters to us: irradiated people, irradiated food, hunger, cold, disease, death. Even if no one hears, sees, feels, tastes, yet death quickly takes hold of old people, children and the unborn. Now again everything is different: Now it seems all are against nuclear power stations anyway. And the required stress tests are already running, it's called – and you get quite stress! As an illustration, only two examples from an ORF broadcast from yesterday, so at midnight. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I quote: "Japan was apparently successful against a super GAU in the Fukushima AKW. Since yesterday all 6 reactors have been connected to the power grid again. This allows the cooling networks to be set in motion. Supplemental rate: Whether all pumps work is questionable.” And that's how it goes. Mr Mitterlehner said – I quote from the ORF teletext –: "There is no preparedness in the EU for a rapid exit. There is a maximum of a willingness to discuss the increase of renewable energy." In addition, Mitterlehner said: ‘Without a single line, stress tests are worthless.’ Mr Federal Minister, if these stress tests are worthless anyway, why is they constantly being talked about?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To our South Steirer, the grey is called “AKW Krško” – and I am disappointed and horrified by how today has been voted on in the Styrian Landtag, where Mr. Landeshaupt Voves in a cuddly course with Mr. Schüttenhöfer, according to APA, added to the nuclear milestone Krško “a lower risk potential in relation to other nuclear reactors”. This one is “in a really good condition. ” One has the same level of information as the Slovenian Government. Two years ago, the Krško nuclear power station was reviewed by experts. – My question: Did the Japanese do that? About four or five weeks ago, the Japanese were supposed to check the Fukushima nuclear power station, but they did not. Ladies and gentlemen, the KR Krško AKW is a dangerous area of the special class. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Around Krško, around 200 kilometres, there have been more than 200 earthquakes of strength 3.5 to 5.7 of the Richter Scale! You can't hide it like that! This region is located in an earthquake zone. Where rivers are, nuclear reactors are usually used because of the use of cooling water from the rivers. Therefore: We from the Freedom Party are against the Atom Lobby and for a radiant spring of life. If nothing happens, however, we liberals will very likely soon be rescinded by the people's clean-up work, similar to Japan, but only in other ways. In conclusion, I should like to make the following proposal, which is also a solution proposal, on the subject of ‘Failure of the Austrian Federal Government in Anti-Atom Policy’: [[Quoted print version removed]] I thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13623	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13681	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit; the total residence time would be 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13703	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Today's debate shows us once again how credible these two government parties are. I can go a little far back. What is called basic consensus today Klubobmann Cap has sold us as a success of the SPÖ at that time. Mr. Klubobmann! I have now noted that you fought for this referendum at the time – personal respect. But if you represent this as the performance of the SPÖ, then I have to say, you are very far from reality. The fact is that the SPÖ has intervened for nuclear power. After all, she first built Zwentendorf and then asked. The voters, the citizen was once again wiser and made a direction-setting decision. There was, of course, always the import of nuclear power. And I say quite clearly, with good reason you were against it. The danger posed by nuclear power now knows no limits. It is therefore never a purely national concern, because what lies behind us in danger is obvious around Austria, if you want to do so, everywhere. There was then the great debate about the Temelín power plant, which was built according to Soviet construction and was somehow converted after 1989. I am very, very proud that I was then one of the three who introduced and initiated this popular desire. Now I remind you of your role, that of red-black with the greens. This popular desire has been signed by 915 000 courageous citizens, rightly supported by the largest daily newspaper, and you have not tire of speaking and acting on this popular desire. If you're home I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the use of certain dangerous substances in the motor vehicles. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] You spoke small and you bear the responsibility for the development that we took at the time. After this Temelín People's Desire, we have somehow moved to the agenda. Euratom has been mentioned several times here. We have paid diligently in the pot, have actively supported these atomic giants, if you want to. I can no longer hear the word “rest risk” in this context, which should really be paid off, because it is an incalculable risk. Now you can't go out of one, two decades or more where something might happen. Japan is taking a dramatic look at this. It is therefore now a clear word spoken in the EU, and that can only be more: out of nuclear energy, out of Euratom and into alternative energy. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am already hearing from the ÖVP the reference to the speaking time. Now, let's get in touch with the right ones. I quote Mr Wöinger. He has explained to us that only the ÖVP is in favour of alternative energy. He has explained to us that all of us are guilty of the opposition, that the Blues, the Greens, the Oranges, are all against it somewhere. Mr Wöinger! Watch out! In my home community you then debated wind farm, yes or no, for ten years. I am not even a full year's mayor and have already made a clear decision. I installed this wind farm. And now I'm going to tell you how the ÖVP voted there. There are five in this council, two were for it, two have included themselves and one was, on the other hand, according to the motto: In diversity lies the unity. We're here for everyone, for everyone we have an argument. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with BZÖ and FPÖ.]] – But this is not the way to make a reasonable policy! I'm telling you, it's not too late. Admit yourself that you have gone astray! You can also get smarter. I can really ask you here: Turn away from the previous way, that's not a wise one, not a good one! Trust in the population, it has the right feeling and it has rightly recognized already in 1978: Get out of nuclear energy!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13779	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13800	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I have to thank God that the TV cameras have already been turned off. I hope that Dr. Karlsböck, who turns to the pult here and spreads untruths about the question of potassium iodide as a dentist advises his patients better. As I said, my hope is that you advise your customers more serious. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Dear Dr. Karlsböck, Austria has been predicting a sufficient dose of potassium iodide tablets at regular intervals since 1990. We have currently stored 6.1 million potassium iodide tablets. As you came to these, I wonder, because up to 40 years the intake is indicated. I think I can remember you getting older. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's what the patients look like!]] Secondly, there is a housekeeping system. That is, anyone who falls into the target group you mentioned can get a pack of potassium iodide ta. In schools and kindergartens, the first daily dose for the children who are there is stored. That is, even if an atomic emergency occurred during school or kindergarten operations, the first dose of potassium iodide tablets would already be administered there. Right is what you said that this batch ended in 2009. Furthermore, it is correct that these tablets are constantly being examined and until 2011 is guaranteed that taking these tablets is completely safe. In addition, Mr. Dr. Karlsböck, a normal procedure has been pending since the last year – not caused by this reactor accident – in which it is about who can deliver these potassium iodide tablets. As you can see, on this package there is also a company name on it, a company in Austria produces these tablets. The method of writing out has been very regular. It will be forecast in the years 2011 and 2012 with the next tranches in Austria. They have had nothing else to do with the entry of this disaster in Fukushima than to spread false reports on the question of potassium iodide tablets and panic against the population. That's what you're making of it – not about serious information. And, dear Dr. Karlsböck, if you're talking about the new director Professor Rendi-Wagner as a quota woman, I'm really “gratulating” you on this statement. I've rarely heard anything stupid. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Mrs. Rendi-Wagner is a habilitated professor who has obtained this after a great hearing process. That in your mind as a quota woman – we do not generate ourselves to be quota women – is a degradation. As I said, Mrs Rendi-Wagner certainly did not deserve it. It will prove, by its achievements, that it will certainly not stand up to Mr. Dr. Hrabcik for anything, but it will, on the contrary, show that it is really more than suitable for this office.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13860	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gartelgruber, colleagues and colleagues on Austria's exit from the Euratom Treaty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Riemer, ladies and gentlemen, on the halving of VAT on energy from renewable domestic resources. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[15:59:01]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00098_d8e13912	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1464/A(E) to 1471/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Questions 7984/J to 8026/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 30. March 2011, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. Before I close the meeting, I announce that the next meeting of the Financial Committee will meet in the local VI. This meeting is closed.
