ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7251	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 96. Meeting of the National Council. Like the Stenographical Protocol of the last plenary session of 4. Mr Mag. Stefan the call “I hope you didn’t have anything to do with children!” to the speaker Stefan Petzner. In agreement with the Second President, President at that time, I give in accordance with § 103 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Official Protocol of the 95. Meeting of 4. In February 2011, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Molterer and windwood. I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 1 p.m. [[09:06:08]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7307	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Mother AND father for the child: Reform Steps for Common Obsessiveness’ First of all, Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7334	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As you have already announced, today we are dealing with a very important and very central issue for more and more families, namely the best possible living conditions and development opportunities for those children whose parents do not or perhaps no longer live in a functioning, harmonious and partnership relationship, as we would certainly wish for all children in principle. According to current figures, nearly 10 percent of children no longer live with both parents, and about 15,000 minor children are affected by the divorce of their parents each year. One sees that this issue is not a marginal issue, it is a significant number of children and their parents whose living conditions we want to deal with today. If one lets the discussion, the reports and also the headlines of the last days and weeks pass by, one could often get the impression, as if it were mainly about the well-being of mothers and fathers and not about children, as if it were mainly about the continuation of parental relationship problems with other means, and about giving them either new opportunities for their discussion or securing the old weapons in the battle of the sexes. Therefore, with all clarity, ladies and gentlemen: That is why this issue cannot and must not be dealt with. No, it should and must be our concern to have in mind the well-being of the children, the well-being of the weakest of our society and the future of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you allow the discussion of the last weeks and months to happen, you can see that all the experts are in a position to agree on one point, namely that in order to ensure the best possible child welfare and to ensure the successful development of children, in principle, there is a functioning, constant and upright contact with mother and father and mother, regardless of whether the two parents want to understand themselves well, to have less good or nothing to do with each other at all. Because this is just as it is – as many experts assure and confirm – we believe that, as a legislator, parents can usually expect them to allow this important and necessary contact with both parents, regardless of the quality of their relationship with each other and regardless of the problems the parents may or may still have had with each other. The fact that there are exceptions is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, however, the legal framework should be based on the case-by-case and not on the exception. Of course, and for God too, thanks to relatively few cases of exceptions, there should be other legal regulations and the possibility to continue to intervene administratively or judicially if the well-being of the child and the children cannot be helped otherwise to break through or if, for various reasons, parents and parents do not correctly recognize or consciously violate this well-being. However, this principle must also apply irrespective of whether children live in a sincere relationship with their parents or outside the same, or whether they are after a divorce. In recent years and in recent months, a lot has been discussed about this, many opinions have been exchanged, experts have been asked. ==References== In this hall last June, a large, full-day survey brought to mind a wide range of experts from a wide range of areas and heard their experiences. Many of the people concerned have also come to terms here. Last but not least, a model has been developed in a working group of different ministries, involving a wide range of experts, which we now want to deal with and adopt quickly as a conclusion of the long discussion and in the interest of our children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my view, part of this new model should in any case be that the common care of both parents is maintained even after the divorce of the marriage, which, by the way, has proved to be in principle proven in upright marriage and has proved itself since 2001, since the common care in the law already exists, also in about half of the divorced marriages. In any event, another important part of this new regulation should be that even children who are born illegitimate will be able to take joint care of judicial decision, which is now dependent on the will of the child mother alone. This has not only been criticised by the European Court of Human Rights in its recent knowledge, but it has also called for a speedy new system. I would think it unbearable for Austria not only to contradict child welfare on this point, but also to continue to violate central human rights. We cannot, and we must not want to do so together. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, of course part of this new law should also be to create better and more effective arrangements for children's visitation to the physical parent they do not live in. From our point of view, it should not happen in the future that parents are completely cut off and excluded from contact with their children without a reason for months and sometimes even for years. This, as already said, does not serve the child’s well - being, nor is it reasonable for fathers or mothers who have often had a working contact with their children for many years ago. Of course, the implementation of this new model will also require further regulations, additional models, additional means and also ways, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve the very important goal for the Austrian People's Party as a family party, namely to enable all children to have a childhood and youth that will provide them with free development on the one hand, but also security and a functioning contact with both parents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This goal, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that it is any further delay. A lot has been discussed, models have been developed, experts have been involved and asked, and implementation steps should now be followed. Therefore, my dear Mrs Federal Minister, dear members of the Federal Government as a whole: With tension and impatience, we expect an appropriate government template. We are ready to continue to work on this government template so that we can take and implement the necessary measures for children, for our families and for the interests of our country as soon as possible. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7435	For a preliminary opinion, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7456	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the obsessiveness of the right to visit, I have a very important task of changing the perspective of politics. The point of view is usually the wrong one. I want to make this clear to you: I've been talking about the subject of visitor rights and care very often lately – not only in my own circle of acquaintances, I also receive a lot of e-mails and letters, even at the airport I'm addressed to them. This is a theme that moves people. And that's what it usually says: I have this and that problem as a father! As a mother, I fear this and that! Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong look! The right angle should be: I'm a kid! I as a child have a right to both parents! [[Lively applause with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] As a child, I don't want to judge who my parents are right in the dispute! I as a child don't want to know anything about revenge and jealousy! As a child, I just want a right to my dad and my mom! As long as no one does anything bad to me, I want to take this right! – Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is the right perspective! [[New applause with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] When I hear and read that it means: Women's policy is thrown back by years, so I must say: It is not about women's policy, nor is it about the father's policy! It's about children's politics! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have just enshrined children's rights in the Constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Partly!]] My experts in the Ministry of Justice have drawn up a draft law which, in my opinion, is very balanced and particularly relevant to the needs of children. For example, child welfare is redefined, more precisely defined. Among other things, it is now said that the child's need should be taken into account after close and good contact with both parents. The draft has been preceded by long discussions and discussions. You know, last year we were sitting here in this room, in this room at a survey. It has a working group in the Federal Ministry of Justice. Last time, this group did it. Of course, the political discussions are still true. I am also looking forward to this, they will take place in the next few days. I am convinced that we will find a good solution for the children. What's going to change? – We have already heard, in 2001 the possibility has been introduced for the first time. There has been a “mortem” excitement, there has been great discussions, and it has been shown that it has proved to be successful. But now we have to go a step further. I believe that, after a divorce, the natural state of the common care should be maintained unless the child's well-being is at risk – then of course, there should continue to be the possibility of individual care. My conviction is that words such as “compulsory” and “automatic” are completely wrong in place. It is not about it, but about the natural state of the child's right to both parents. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] By the way, there has been such a solution in Germany since 1998, and it has proved itself very well there. Studies clearly show that the common care of itself leads to a better basis of conversation between parents, which is de-escaling in itself. And that's what it's all about: Deescalation! As far as the immoral children are concerned, there is also a need for action, for, of course, immoral children also have a right to both physical parents. I think that unmarried parents who agree that there is no problem with each other should be able to apply for common care before the office. After all, the state does not have to interfere. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If the child's well-being is at risk when a parent says he doesn't want to, then the unmarried father has a right of application in court, then he can apply for a common care. By the way, the judgment of the Court of Human Rights strengthens my back on this, because it also says: It may not be possible that the mother alone determines whether the father has something to say or not. – But of course: In the case of a dispute, the individual case must be considered – no question! Another thing about common care: It is always argued with the reference to “violent fathers”. – Dear ladies and gentlemen, thank God not every father is violent. I know a lot of really good fathers. The father image has changed over the last decades, and I think we all know that. If violence is in play, then, of course, the care is deprived of the person concerned. But you don't have to be a heart and a soul for the common care. You don't have to walk through life with your hands, you don't have to call each other three times a day. That's not the point! It is really just a matter of participation in important decisions. What else is going to change? – We all agree that it is very bad if a child does not see a physical parent for a long time; often it is months, sometimes even years. There is an alienation, and we must prevent this in the interests of the children. Therefore, the right to visit, the procedure for personal contact, should be accelerated. I would like us to introduce a legal minimum right of visit, and in addition, the judge should have the opportunity to grant a provisional right of visit. In the event of a common divorce, you should also talk about it. This possibility should not only be reserved in the future, so that a child does not have to face his physical parents for a long time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But something else is quite, very important. I find that family disputes do not belong to the negotiating room – only in the extreme case! – they belong to a round table. That is why I would like to introduce family aid in Austria. There should be a place where parents, including judges and experts such as psychologists, educators, and social workers, may sit together. [[Abg. Krainer: What about the children? Why aren't the children there?]] The expertise should be introduced in advance so that it is not necessary to conduct a process at all, so that it does not become necessary to order an elaborate opinion – an opinion that in most cases takes a very long time. [[Abg. Krainer: Maybe you should also plan and listen to the children!]] A censure in the form of family court, that is, I think, the environment and up. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In addition, you also have to equip the plumber with a corresponding instrument. I want to make a bundle of measures available to him. He should have the opportunity to send parents to educational advice. [[Abg. Krainer: Why are the children not invited to the Round Table?]] He should have the opportunity to send parents to meditation. He should also have the opportunity to maintain the child's passport and to impose a ban on the child to leave. It's supposed to prevent many abductions. I think these are all measures to be taken in individual cases in the sense of child welfare, and the judge must have these possibilities. As you can see, this draft provides something for our children. The ABGB will be 200 years old this year, ladies and gentlemen, and it will now address the needs of our children even more. Finally, an appeal to All of them: Please, don't make the topic the battle of the sexes! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7612	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers in the current hour according to § 97a Abs. Do not exceed 6 5 minutes. Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7637	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, Mrs Bundesminister: It is not about a fight, it is about solutions for the people concerned in a difficult situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My two previous speakers have already shown how different topics such as divorce, care, maintenance, visitation rights are discussed and how diverse, different, emotional and aggressive debates are conducted. In a parliamentary survey last year – Mr Donnerbauer has already pointed out – there was a very informative and very interesting discussion on these various points. In this survey, it has been shown, above all, that the changed forms of family, the changed worlds of life and the real worlds of life require changing conditions for people to be required. Divorces, divorces leave traces: Traces of disease, traces of anger, traces of being left alone, sadness – to name some emotional sensibilities – in adults and especially in children. In principle, of course, the question is also why we have such a high number of divorces. Don't we have a dispute culture in Austria? Does the so-called speechlessness rule in many families? Can't upcoming problems be solved? Is the only solution the separation? – The fact is that the disputed separation cannot solve problems, but it can partly be intensified and outsourced. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the solution of all the conflicts ahead is to be the automatic common care – a prescribed commitment that does not require an understanding of the parents. As simple as you imagine, Mrs Minister, this is not what I am convinced of. If parents cannot agree on a common care, the reason is that, and I also think that giving – what children need, what they rightly want and what they also have to do – cannot be ordered. On the contrary! I am convinced that prescribed harmony leads to even more problems and by the way means a step back in family law, because we had this automatic care before. [[Abg. Strache: Germany shows exactly the opposite, Mrs. Colleague! The Federal Republic of Germany and Red-Green have seen this quite differently!]] All in all, it has to be noted that there is no sufficient data, facts and figures on this whole subject, Mr. Cot. We have no fundamental analyses. I am also convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot link the issues directly with each other, but that we need to discuss the matter separately about the care, the arrangements for visits and, above all, the maintenance. It's about time after that, and it's mainly about the fact that there is often an inability for adults to find solutions, so they use their children as a game ball. We social democrats stand for a modern family law, which is to be discussed overall and cannot be a flick and detail, because families need our support. We need tailored solutions that meet and take into account the needs of parents and the legitimate demands of children. They are talking about accompanying measures, Mrs. Minister. – In concrete terms, my question: Has You're taking care of it? Is there sufficient financial and human resources? Because these are necessary in order to be able to create tailor-made solutions, to create legitimate solutions and also to finance them. We need improvements, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we need shortened procedures, we need maintenance arrangements that are respected, we need visitor arrangements that are binding and mandatory, we need to think about cooling phases after divorce, we need sufficient support in separation phases, and we also need mandatory parents' advice, especially in case of disputed divorces. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about it, discuss it and work on good and just solutions – in the sense of fathers, in the sense of mothers and above all in the sense of children!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7685	Mrs Steibl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7707	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, Mrs Binder-Maier, your last sentence is to be underlined by a thousand percent. We must support parents in their responsibility in education, but also in their responsibility in a partnership if they do not do so alone. Partnering and parenting are topics that must be very central to us, which we bear responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This includes children, and a child has the right to both parents. My colleague, Donnerbauer, has already said that four out of ten children are born in Austria, without the parents having a marriage certificate, and that 15 000 minor children a year are experiencing the divorce of their mother and father. Of course not only, but especially in these difficult and so sensitive situations: The well-being of the child/the well-being of the children must have absolute priority! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The child's basic need for a good contact, after a relationship with both parents, is to be supported. This is our task, which of course can also be seen in a fundamental context with the right of visit. A fixed right of visit makes sense in my opinion; it is good if we do so. It is extremely important to keep children in touch with both parents. This is a message that we must deliver, because it is important and necessary. Children have a right to contact fathers, children also need male role models. All experts say that we have far too few kindergartens, folk school teachers. Boys like girls need to get in touch with the opposite sex. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Linder.]] A common concern with immoral children, or after divorce, also helps to avoid conflicts – even with the last survey here in Parliament – and experts from the bank have said that it is necessary to avoid conflicts. The recent family report also states that the legal possibility of maintaining the common care after divorce is a good basis for bringing about a relaxation of the parental relationship. I think with more communication, fewer conflicts and a higher satisfaction of both parents, especially the fathers, there would be a better relationship afterwards between children and separate living parents. Divorce and divorce are always traumatic experiences for children. In my civil profession, I have been working in a women's and family unit for more than 20 years, and I have to say: It must not be women's policy considerations or self-interest Eating disappointed fathers in the foreground, but it's about the child. This is the responsibility of putting a child in the world. There can be no one-sided gender struggle here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is only a few weeks ago that we in Parliament have laid down the rights of children in the Constitution. This was an initiative by ÖVP and SPÖ, and I am glad that this was decided. It has been noted that each child is entitled to regular personal relations and direct contacts with both parents. That means once again: The child's well-being is the focus. Finally, I would like to say that all of us are involved in the responsibility for child/children. It is primarily not about the claims of fathers or the claims of mothers, but about children's claims. This proposal, which has been drawn up in the ministry and which will, of course, be presented to Parliament in cooperation with the government parties and also with the support of the opposition, is a good basis for making family policy even more viable – for the benefit of children!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7779	Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7800	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The viewers at home in front of the television screens can watch the play of mourning, but they can not hear the quite domestic calls coming from the respective other coalition partner. I am very sorry that we have the situation on this important issue again that the two government parties are fighting each other. There is no progress in administrative reform, no progress in health reform, no progress in measures for a powerful federal army, no progress in the financing of care, and on this issue, which is so important for 15 000 children each year, the victims of divorce, you cannot agree again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] If you forget on this issue that it is mainly about child welfare, and if you hear intercessions here from people who do not have children themselves and do not know what it is all about, I would like to stress that common care is one of the most important measures we can implement for the child welfare in Austria. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have the impression that in Austria it seems that if one of the two coalition partners is in opposition, they can only do something more. – They work very hard on it. I'm already excited about how the next few months will develop. The topic is highly emotional. It's about father's rights, it's about women's rights in the foreground – but it's not about the children. Whoever has children of you knows how fast time goes. The child comes into the world, suddenly it is in kindergarten, in school, and eventually the child leaves the house, and then you wonder where time has stayed. And in this short period of time, let go of years, in which you may not be able to see the child – such cases exist – that is particularly a pity. I am aware of a case of a pediatrician, ladies and gentlemen, who treats dozens of children daily and who have not been allowed to see his own children because of a very lengthy decision of the court. No one can really explain to me that this arrangement can benefit both children and the parents concerned. I don't think so, ladies and gentlemen. – Mrs Colleague, please do not be afraid, I will come to the subject immediately. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Hysterical creation does not change the problem, does not change anything at all, ladies and gentlemen! [[He-Rufe at SPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the image that is usually drawn by the fathers is not correct, not correct. I have read an interview with a divorce attorney, which says that the fathers should be responsible for the poor nutrition of the children, that the fathers should pick up the children by car, put them in the front seat – without a child’s seat – and get up and out of the car with squeaking tires. – I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, let us not go from extreme cases! It was only yesterday that an extreme case was shown. A woman lit her apartment, and their own children were burned. These are extremes, not the regularity. We all probably know fathers in our environment – with me it is the great majority – who really care about their children, who sit with the children at weekends, in the evening activities that teach the children to go ice-cream, who read stories with the children, read to them who practice piano with the children who also help in the exercise of the house. That's the father, as I know him in my environment. I can only say that many children suffer when they cannot see a parent over months, often over years. But it's not just about the parents, it's also about aunts, it's about siblings, it's also about grandparents who are affected. Please don't forget! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore ask, ladies and gentlemen, to finally implement the good experience that has been gained in other countries with the common care – which is the case in a genuine marriage – also in Austria. It has already been mentioned today: It is not a question of making gender policy here. It is not about strengthening men's rights or women's rights. It is only about the child's right to contact with father and mother. Each year, 15,000 children are affected by divorce and are victims of divorce. Let us not pretend that these children are not sometimes Faustpfand when it comes to financial disputes and the sharing of wealth! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We don't want that! We do not want to put the children at the centre of a often very hard-led dispute!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7904	Mr Hofer, I would like to give you the opportunity to take back the word ‘hysterical vessel’. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: I like to take this back!]] [[Abg. Strache: The truth must be reasonable!]] Mr Hofer has withdrawn this, but I do not think that it is appropriate to continue to argue with women in this context, in particular. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: She's going on!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7977	Ladies and gentlemen! It has been said more often today that the issue of care and right of visit is highly sensitive. All the more annoying, Mrs Minister of Justice, I find your way of doing this. Last week, you had a draft law on common care. sent. The working groups have not yet finished, yesterday was still a working group meeting, you have not yet reached a consensus with the coalition partner, but much worse: You have said that you have not even had talks with your coalition partner! I don't know why you're doing this, but I know you're obviously not aware of the sensitivity of this issue! You are not aware that with this process you contribute to further emotionalisation and certainly not to a solution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When we talk about care and the right of visit, we also need to talk about the failure of recent years. The number of applications for care and visitation rights in court has increased dramatically. Already in 2007, the family judges were already used 105 percent, as one would technically express it. It's translated: They got more work in here than they could do. What was the reaction? – There has no longer been family judges, although it would have been useful to do the job and get the duration of the procedure under control, no, the only thing you have done was that you have introduced new fees for applications for care and visitation rights, Ms. Justice Minister. The calculation behind it was either that fewer applications are made – but that doesn't solve any problems! – or that you take more. This is no one's contribution to the solution of the problem! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The problem with the experts is also unsolved. On the one hand, there is criticism of quality, but on the other hand also of how long opinions take, so that judicial decisions are possible. Today you have avoided this topic, you are obviously at least able to learn. However, they now fall into a dangerous black and white painting. If you read the interviews with you in the newspapers, you have the impression that the only problem is that all mothers of all fathers refuse the right to visit. With this in mind, I ask myself: What did the singles do to you? So you don't misunderstand me. There are, of course, cases of refusal to visit. These are certainly a problem in a certain segment. There are, however, also cases in which fathers of separation settle mothers, and there are also cases where fathers are no longer interested in the children. But those who recognize the complexity of the problem situations have the child's well-being in mind and will also find solutions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have conducted dozens of discussions with those concerned, with people working in this field, and with people who have ideas. On the basis of these experiences, I say to you: There is nothing that does not exist in conflicts, and therefore one-dimensional viewpoints do not bring us forward. We therefore do not need your new law-and-order family policy, according to which someone is threatened. Something is clear: Commonness cannot be enforced with threats, commonness cannot be ordered, but commonness can only be developed. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why we are also proposing that conciliation bodies should be given jurisdiction instead of courts. Courts, you've already said that is a pretty bad place to resolve separation conflicts. However, separation conflicts are often the reason why there are conflicts and disputes in the issue of whether or not there are rights to visit. Your draft, however, provides for the opposite: They leave jurisdiction with the courts, and you even bring in another question. In the past, a lot had to be done. whether father or mother, must now be decided whether father or mother or together. And by allowing this to happen at the courts, you can in principle already create the first escalation step: Whoever has a problem has to go to court, and the other sees this as escalation. If you are consistent, you will abolish the jurisdiction of the courts as a place of entry and immediately take responsibility for the mediation bodies so that you can work on solutions immediately. It is also clear that solutions that are being developed together will always be better solutions than those you want to order. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Our model is therefore clear: We want to have a censure right away, if there's any problems. There one should then try to find solutions together with those involved in the issues of visitation and care. I am convinced that this will work in many cases. No one has a benefit from a conflict for the long term. This burdenes everyone, the mother, the father, the children. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] A sentence to end the thought: But if there is no solution, then there will be nothing to order the commonness, but then the court will have to decide who gets the care. My request to you: Open both eyes, and do not use this theme to profile! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8089	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8111	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Why do we discuss this problem at all? - Because the coalition doesn't agree! That's the reason! It is unique for a woman to put on the table a proposal to be taken seriously by the Federal Minister and therefore to be discussed here because the coalition partner permanently beats him up. This is the background, ladies and gentlemen. This problem is the starting point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Federal Minister is serious; I know that from the survey. I know that this is a special concern for you. At the ÖVP, I am not quite sure, because the responsible Secretary of State Remler once again shines through absence – perhaps she is basking on a speech. The Minister of Family is not here either. That is to say, this issue is basically only of interest to the Federal Minister for Justice. [[Abg. Head: Only the Minister responsible must be present!]] Yeah, well, but no one would have prevented her from being there! Yes. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Head.]] Your State Secretary from Tyrol could only learn! She could only learn to do that! It has so far not really shone in the family policy field. We are waiting urgently for accents. If, today, the Federal Minister is put to work in a newspaper, she would beat herself on the father's side, then that is simple and simply wrong. In this case, I must protect the Federal Minister – what ÖVP has not done yet – in this case. Mrs Bundesminister Bandion-Ortner deserves support in this case. She does not beat herself on the father's side, but on the child's side! Ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] It is precisely this debate that has so far gone wrong between the coalition parties, because one still believes in the left corner, especially the ladies of the feminism movement that has already been established, that one can carry out feminism on the back of the children. [[Abg. May. Steßl-Mühlbacher: That's incredible!]] Please, one more time! Did anyone call here? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is a particularly subtle form of violence that children are doing, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know if You have really seen such children and had to deal with them, I have to deal with such children every day. These children suffer from what parents do. Mr Steinhauser, we are not discussing the case or case of agreement here – in such cases we can also agree with an arbitration body. But it is not about the cases of agreement, but about cases where there is no agreement. But you didn't talk about it. By the way, you would not have dared to bring this debate contribution to the survey. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That's because your own people would've built you up. At this survey, one of your nominated experts was, and he has told you how the fathers are doing in this country! There you were very small, and also the ladies of the SPÖ were there very small! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Children are still being used as a mass of pressure in a steadily increasing number of disputes after separations, and the trend is increasing because – and I have to say that to the shame of the lawyer – this is also being handled in the lawyer's office. That is why there is only one way to get the children out of this pressure boiler, ladies and gentlemen. This can only be done by providing common care in principle. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] By the way, if we are already in mental violence on this occasion: Mr Westenthaler will give you a few questions. There are women's homes in which women find shelter, which in reality withdraw the children from the fathers, and there you see the position of a child's care application as psychological violence! What the child participates in, on the other hand, is not seen as psychological violence, ladies and gentlemen! And these associations are highly subsidized, prominently occupied with SPÖ-Dammen, and we'll see how much of these subsidies are actually used there. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] The figures are much more dramatic: We have about 130 000 children affected, and 20 000 are added per year! I told you, and in particular you, from SPÖ, when deciding on the Child Protection Convention, that this will be the nail sample. You have spoken many words here, what great concerns you have and how the child is at the heart of it. However, the issue of common care is hardly the focus of the child, but only the feminism movement of the social democrats, ladies and gentlemen. That's fact! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That is true of God, unfortunately!]] If the child is a concern to you, then arrange it so that the child cannot be made into a mass of pressure and a mass of conflict between parents who otherwise do not bring it together. Take the child out of this pressure and say: Fight, but not on the back of the children! That must be your concern if you still remember your own words about the Child Protection Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day there is still a concern for the Federal Ministers: Mrs Bundesminister, I would also like to see the question of care in the joint care of the issue of maintenance services have an impact. It should be discussed in more detail.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8231	Mr Dr. Jarolim is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8252	Mr Stadler, you really are attacking that institution, which is the women's houses, which are the last refuge for women who are subjected to violence and are often tortured to the blood, which is already very significant! You're really ashamed of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] I do not think we can speak here on the one hand of the fact that the discussion, as far as is possible in cases of often very difficult circumstances, is to be carried out emotionally, and on the other hand it is precisely in this way that oil is pouring into the fire, Mr President! I believe that this will not really take all the other arguments seriously anymore! Ladies and gentlemen, that children should have a right to both parents and that this should also be enforced is completely out of dispute here. 90 percent of all divorces take place in agreement, and of course it should also be possible if the spouses are no longer able to live together and separate to meet the best possible solutions in the child's mind. But it must not be forgotten that 10 per cent do not agree, as all speakers, even Mr Hofer, have explained here until now. Discussions are often held, there are conflicts and violent activities that go up to the limit of tolerance and the existence of each partner. In such cases, the children must be protected from having to look at this on the open stage, ladies and gentlemen! That's for sure! It's not useful to a child when we say: Stage up! Look how your parents deal with each other! – These are the parents to whom the child has been granted in love, and it absolutely does not want to see the two referents conflict with each other. I think the laws will be measured by whether we succeed. I think it is also important to distinguish between the right of visit on the one hand and the common care on the other, as proposed here. I admit: There are many rights to visit, which are not enforced and where children wait for years for one or another partner. Minister of Justice, there are procedures that take three, four, five years. I wonder, Why is that so? Why can't we start internal justice to see why we don't get faster procedures? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am perfectly with you when you say that the courts may not be the best place to solve such difficult situations. They are still responsible, and as long as they are responsible, it is also important to ensure that we get quick solutions. I think that's the turn-and-up. It also often leads to frustrations when there is no solution for years. Common care is a good solution if there is agreement between parents when parents agree to take on the role of the child who helps the child after divorce. [[Abg. Head: It's not about parents, it's about the child!]] It is about the child, but the child should be protected from seeing the parents in all public and almost killed, ladies and gentlemen! And it doesn't matter at all when you say there's an absolutely conflicty relationship. - Of course! If divorce occurs, it has its reasons, and if, as in 10 percent of cases, divorce comes along with violence, extortion and the most unpleasant actions, then the child has lost nothing in this scenario. It is our task to find a solution within the meaning of the children so that they are protected from being drawn into these conflicts as a matter of fact. Mr Hofer himself said that the child is often abused as a fist. When will it be misused more than Faustpfand, than if it must be, when the parents are fighting? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a good solution if we are trying to solve with a law something that should actually be a therapeutic or psychotherapeutic measure that must address the human situation of a group, namely the family! That is why we can't do this about a performance and say that we're making a law now and that we've found all the solutions more or less, but we need to find solutions that the children deserve. This is also the expectation of the children and the youth of us. And this solution cannot be that we ignore the fact that there is a great therapeutic effort in each case. Mrs Minister, we are in favour of having the discussion with you. We would also have liked to see discussions held to date, which unfortunately was not the case. We want to look for alternatives, we want to set up a pre-arranged arbitration office instead of the courts, as mentioned several times by all. To believe a law alone solves all problems, is really something too short. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8313	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8334	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Minister for Justice has presented her draft for the changes in family law and has also explained it in detail here. She also pointed out that the proposed new rules in family law do not concern mother and father's rights, but concern the child's well-being. Today we have heard that about 15,000 children in Austria are affected by divorces every year. And all children, including children of divorce, have the right to father and mother. The common care also takes both parents into account after separation and responsibility so that children can be guaranteed maximum support if it is in the interests of the child's well-being. What is the cracking point for the 10 percent of the rose war divorces? – Of course, the question arises whether, in these cases, a judicial decision on care should continue, or whether, as Mrs Bundesminister Bandion-Ortner has provided, both parents should continue to bear responsibility for their children in order to ensure optimal care for their further life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The draft law, when carefully looking at him, contains an appeal to the parents not to put their dispute on the back of their children. Of course, we know that there are disputed parents who are mentally injured, who want nothing more to do with each other, who have the accusations and debt allocations interconnected, and who sometimes also draw the children into this cruel game, just in order to better enforce their claims in court. It is precisely because, Mr Jarolim, we are not far away from each other – it is a question of having an interlocutory place where parents are brought together on a table and advised by experts. This is also in the sense of the Minister for Justice, which she has proposed. However, this still leaves the question as to how children are in such cases – the children who love their parents, who love both parents, who cannot understand why living together should no longer be possible in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, from 17 to 19. A conference was held in Vienna on February, during which 500 international experts discussed the needs of young children. Klaus Vavrik, president of the Austrian Health League for Children and Youth, has predicted that 20 000 to 40 000 children under the age of four are growing up in burdened situations. The consequences in later life are increased search strategies, more social disorders and a double frequency of depression. There are also increased children of divorce in the early childhood. The key statement of this child-psychological conference was based on research results. It has been concluded that a happy bond in early childhood decides how children do in later life. The pediatrician Katharina Kruppa, the president of the Society for Mental Health in Early Childhood, pointed out that children need a genuinely loving contribution in order to be able to fully exploit their potential for development. This is possible only if the mother is not left alone in the care, because children need several referees. Children need mother and father and have a claim to both parents. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] A similar right to both parents never has the goal of harming mothers, but it is intended to prevent abuse of power and injustice in the interests of children. We expect an appropriate government proposal. We also expect the open discussion points to be discussed intensively. Of course, it is a sensitive matter, and we also know that the change now envisaged in family law is basically within the meaning of children's rights and within the meaning of the Constitution. There it is said – that has already been quoted today –: “Each child is entitled to regular personal relations and direct contacts with both parents unless this is contrary to his well-being.” – The child’s well-being is certainly at the heart of family law. [[Call at the SPÖ:... right to visit!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8386	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8407	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We, the Freedom Party, welcome this bill and support it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The draft law is compatible with the political view of the Freedom Party, which has led to applications in two legislative periods, both in the past and in these. Of course, the appeal has rightly been put in the room by you, that the issue of care for children should not be reworked to combat sex. I suspect that this very right appeal for specific sectors of red-green-colored combat brigades is completely pointless, which, of course, continue to raise the child to the pressure medium or take it under the arm – whatever expressions you want to use for it. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Call for the call.]] That is the reason why this energetic counterhall is against you and against this bill. It is recognized as a battlefield, and one does not want to give up. There are, of course, different forms of child abuse. The most violent is the physical form, but also the psychological possibility of playing with the child as a means of pressure one against the other is unheard of, and it is further worked on with political schine arguments at this level. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Black and white!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is true that thanks to most of the children concerned, it was not so touching on God because the parents are reasonable and the child is not the object of the disorder. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: When!]] You can roar what you want – you yourself know only theoretically from the Chamber of Workers. On the side of the affected, as a lawyer in court, you are certainly never known. So you do not know what you are talking about, Mr President. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, as is evident from investigations, as follows: If legislation exists because of the common care, a large number of court proceedings – of course only statistically can be drawn up – are clearly demonstrated and scientifically supported by experience from the Federal Republic of Germany – which are still being conducted in Austria today, because this legal arrangement is missing, which is now to be decided by this legislative initiative. It is therefore possible, with the help of this new legal possibility, from the outset to provide for common care, to remove an unimportant part of children from the conflict potential, which unfortunately is given to parents. That alone is reason enough to support this law, and that makes sense. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Several previous speakers have referred to the survey, in which many who sit here were present – so I too – and in which an expert from Germany, a family judge, in an absolutely clear, actually irreconcilable and clearly presented the advantage of the German legal situation. I do not understand that in the field of security policy, where it does not fit at all, red is so determined by the German model, whereas, where there is a good German example, one turns from political one-dimensionality. Again: All your allegations – my previous speaker has already pointed out – in the sense of child protection in the Constitution are not worth anything if, where it becomes concrete, the children are still to be trampled around. – That’s the reality! So we support this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8493	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8516	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen, seers! This is obviously an emotional topic, including the efforts of my colleague Fichtenbauer, whom I do not see right now – emotionally because not only the people here in the hall, but probably almost all people in Austria have experience of the subject, whether it be because they were themselves in separation and divorce situations, or because they know other people who were in separation and divorce situations. [[Call the FPÖ:Oye!]] [[Abg. New builder: “Survivors”!]] In such cases, it is often difficult to discuss really objectively and differentiated, because it is often really argued from the subjective perspective, from the point of view of your own experience that individuals have made. Against this background, it is more than disappointing, Mrs Minister, that you have not managed to present a draft that includes all the points of view in this area. Her draft speaks a very clear language: Their design speaks the language of the fathers. Her draft does not speak the language of children. - I'll explain this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Then you have not read the proposal!]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Stay objective!]] If you are all talking about child welfare here, if you are all talking about the child's right to both parents, then we agree. But what we no longer agree on is the question of what the child's welfare is and what is the child's right to both parents. [[Call the ÖVP:Only your opinion is factual!]] You know very well that parents are not like parents. They know exactly – and I leave it now deliberately neutral to sex – that there are parents who do not act for the benefit of the development of their children – mothers and fathers – and that there are fathers who have not taken care of the well-being of their children all the time in the relationship and then suddenly discover the interest in their children in the separation case. I do not want to agree with them either, because it can happen that, in a particular situation, one does not have the possibility or the interest, and then through a crisis – and separation and divorce are certainly such for all parties involved – so to speak, his values, his interests change. However, this must not lead us to adopt a law here – fortunately not today, there will still be talks – in which everything is shaved over a comb, in which, no matter how the individual situation of the individual families, a condition is to be created automatically, which is not for the benefit of the child. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's not true!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: You didn't understand!]] What we need – we Greens have already proposed this in the survey – is a de-escalation. Divorce and divorce are crisis situations. People have to face up to the fact that something they intended to live together, to raise children together, to go a bit of the way, has ended – for whatever reason. This brings all families, all involved in crisis situations. I've been a divorce and separation mediator for over 15 years, and believe me, I know what I'm talking about. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's even worse! You are acting against better knowledge!]] The people who consciously want to get out of a relationship are also in a crisis, because they still have to make a fresh start. And in this crisis situation, it does not help them if they are forced to be held together firmly and have to achieve compulsorily. [[Abg. Head: Common care does not mean hand in hand!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler, I am referring to these 10 percent who cannot agree. In this situation, stakeholders need support from people who have learned to support people who help them to work out their problems of the past, to leave their relationship level, to take on the parental level and to work together for the benefit of the children. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] [[Abg. Head:... does not exclude this!]] That is why we have made the proposal instead of setting up an automatic care facility, namely the Conciliation Body, but not only when a judge feels that the family should go there, but also a conciliation body that is in front of the courts, where all couples, who are willing to settle and divorce, go and get the support they need individually. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer:... Obligation to settle!]] Then there will still be people in which it makes no sense to agree where it is not possible, and then the law is asked. Then the court was asked to make a decision for the benefit of the children. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Against this background, Mrs Minister, I hope that the talks with the Minister of Women, who is a similar view in this regard, bear fruit and that these discussions will bring you not only to see a perspective, but also to see the other perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8767	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8788	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President. High house! As the last speaker of this current hour, I would like to make the following very clear: because everyone is talking about child welfare: It is a great happiness and a great joy to have children to be able to accompany children in their personal development. It is a great challenge to accompany them over the many obstacles in life, to grow up, to support and train them properly, and above all to give them a lot of love, a lot of care and a lot of protection. [[He also welcomed BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] This task, ladies and gentlemen, is primarily for the parents. The parents have this responsibility, and the children have the right to have a good contact with both parents, mother and father. This is particularly true in the case of separation, in the case of divorce, in case children are born illegitimate. Therefore, I cannot begin with the choice of my colleague, Mr Binder-Maier, when she speaks of the ‘appointed commitment’. This “appointed obligation ” exists for a lifetime. The responsibility cannot be given if you are separated from the partner as a partner, but have this responsibility for the children. You've been living a whole life. – Therefore, the question does not arise. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] The reality shows that there are more and more children in divorce that more and more children are born unwed, that there are more and more single parents. Therefore, it is an hour’s commandment to shape the family laws in such a way that they also give answers to this reality. Knowing that especially the family environment is very intensive in the development of children – in the positive and negative sense – we have repeatedly put pressure on the BZÖ, on the one hand, in the area of the new Youth Assistance Act, where it is urgently necessary to create a federal uniform regime and an automaticism when it comes to child threat and on the other hand also in the further development of the right of care. We from the BZÖ see ourselves exclusively as a representative of the children and their right to mother and father, no matter in which relationship the parents live. Mrs Bundesminister, your proposal is definitely positive and welcome. I see less positively that there is no common denominator with the coalition partner yet. One has seen that there will be a lot more to expect, especially if one is not in agreement with the coalition partner on the essential question of whether or not the common care is now to be seen as a regular case. The so-called coalition spirits are divorced, and I think we will be offered a very interesting show again in the next few weeks. But for us as BZÖ it is quite clear: Common care should be standard; sole care should be the exception if there are difficulties when there is a dispute when the child's well-being is threatened. I firmly disagree with the fact that fathers are constantly held to be uninterested in the majority of the children. But I also vehemently disagree with the fact that mothers are supposed to use the children entrusted to them as a pledge against the fathers. The vast majority of fathers and mothers, ladies and gentlemen, are interested in children and want to participate in the successful development of children. We from the BZÖ also want there to be no differentiation between the common care of children of divorce and the infidelity of children. It would be a false signal not to enforce this. We want clear rules on the right of visit – Mrs Federal Minister, you have already announced it – clear rules on day care, what is going on, and so on, because I believe parents, especially fathers, are not temporary visitors to their children. We also need to regulate clearly – Mr Stadler has already mentioned it – as the maintenance obligation looks forward to. If more is cared for, can less support be paid? – This is also an important question that cannot be resolved sometime. The accompanying measures as a Family Conciliation Body are also to be welcomed. What you want, Mrs Federal Minister, is certainly very ambitious, but you are only credible for us if you have convinced the coalition partner. If a good law is implemented, you have, as it were, acquired your credibility in this question. We become BZÖ You certainly support solutions, because we only have one in view: the well-being of the children!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8876	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:18:36]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8901	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Requests for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9331	Deputies Dr. In accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of an investigative committee to investigate undue influences in the field of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, pursuant to § 33 para., Members of Parliament have Bucher, colleagues and colleagues. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested a committee of inquiry to examine the role and development of the former Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser in the BUWOG affair respectively. Finally, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested a committee of inquiry to examine the role and development of the former Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser in the BUWOG affair as well as the Member of the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler, former Board of the Austrian Bundesliga, and former Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser with regard to the funding of the Bundesliga by the Republic of Austria. Furthermore, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on these requests. A joint debate will be held in agreement with the political groups. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall take place the debate and the votes after completion of the agenda. [[10:20:24]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9373	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, before the entry into the agenda, requested that the self-employed person put forward at the same time be treated in an urgent manner by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues with regard to Austria's exit from the Euratom Treaty. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. [[10:20:48]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9400	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that the Members of this House have requested that the Transport Committee report to Members Hagen, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of the Court of Auditors recommendations on the ÖBB to the Transport Committee on Report on Amendment No 892/A(E) to the Court of Auditors, a deadline of 27 May. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9424	It is proposed that the debate on points 6 to 8 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9448	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 112 minutes, FPÖ 100 minutes, Green 88 minutes and BZÖ 84 minutes. The following Rules of Procedure were agreed for the duration of the TV broadcast by the ORF until 1 p.m.: At TOP 1: Declaration by the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs pursuant to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, first the Federal Minister's statement with 13 minutes, then each one a round of speakers with 8 minutes, then 5 minutes and 4 minutes, another brief word by the Federal Minister with 3 minutes and another a round of speakers with 4 minutes. The call for speakers takes place in the first round in the order FPÖ, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP and BZÖ, in all subsequent rounds according to political strength. To TOP 2: Collection report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives (1046, e.g.A round of speakers is agreed with 4 minutes each. The call for speakers takes place in the order FPÖ, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP and BZÖ. The presence of members of the government during the debate of this presentation of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is not foreseen. Actual adjustments are called after the end of the television period. Before the beginning of the last round, the President-in-Office shall distribute the remaining time in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly in the television era. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the honourable Member's speaking time to 10 minutes per debate without club membership. We come to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:23:57]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the balance sheet of Austrian membership of the UN Security Council and on the dramatic events in the Arab world, especially in the North African region
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9516	We reach the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give Mr Spindelegger the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9546	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present to you today, in my statement, on the one hand, a review of our membership of the United Nations Security Council and, on the other hand, a review of current developments in the Arab world. If I can start with the report on Austrian membership of the UN Security Council in 2009/2010, I can point out that we have kept it in a document sent to all Members, with the essential concerns represented by Austria there, with the successes, but also with the essential documents that are relevant to it. In my view, I can sum up this as follows: The main key points were first of all that we have concentrated heavily on the realization of what we have announced in a campaign for membership, namely the principle of the rule of law to help break through. We have been very committed to doing so, for example, during the entire Gaza War, which was given to us at the beginning of our membership in early 2009, to behave exactly according to these principles and to represent our position in the Security Council. The same was true throughout the civil war situation in Sri Lanka, on the question of piracy by Somalia or in the fight against terrorism, when Austria had to lead the committee against Taliban and Al-Qaeda. We have also put the rule of law at the centre and can thus ensure that those on this list could also be represented by a Ombudsman and thus also guaranteed the rule of law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second major focus, which we have devoted ourselves to, was the protection of civilians in armed conflicts. We were able to hold a debate on this in November 2009, when Austria was chairing the Security Council, and we decided on a unanimous resolution, resolution 1894. In this resolution, a different focus is given to the protection of civilians in armed conflicts, and protection is also brought to the centre in UN missions. And we can bilan today. It is true that, in almost half of the United Nations blue helmets, no matter where they are used, the protection of civilians in the mandate played a completely different role than before. I believe that this is a great success in the interests of the many people involved who are pitied in armed conflicts. This is borne by the Austrian manuscript, which we can be quite proud of. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Bitch.]] The third priority was that we devoted ourselves to the topic of women, peace and security. Resolution 1325 was ten years old, and we together with the American administration have tried to give new impetus. We have held a debate in the Security Council and we have seen that, by introducing indicators that we have proposed together with the Americans and which have been decided, there is now a different, more professional access. I think we can also book this on a positive balance sheet page. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The fourth point, ladies and gentlemen, was and is that we were also concerned that the European Union should have a different place in the United Nations. We Austrians have proposed that the High Commissioner Catherine Ashton, with a different opinion, be given a different weight in front of the Security Council. It is not responsible that the European Union, which, for example, plays such a significant role in the Middle East quartet, may then issue an opinion between the organisation Amnesty International and the Maltese Knight Order. No, the European Union needs a different place in the United Nations! We have started a debate in the Security Council and hope that we will now be able to end this by a decision of the General Assembly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with our commitment to the Security Council, we have undertaken to help strengthen Vienna's headquarters. They know that we are in constant competition with the other headquarters – Geneva, Nairobi, New York – and that it is not so clear that the UN will maintain the Vienna site. What did we do? – On the one hand, we have created a new institution, the International Anti-Corruption Academy in Laxenburg, opened up by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and I believe that this has been given a new priority. He said at his opening speech: We need a culture of integrity. – And with this institution, we can also make a significant contribution through a training programme that will start in the autumn of this year. We just opened a new institution in Austria a week ago. It is a think tank for security policy that we have opened together with NGOs. It is the Vienna Center for Disarmament and Non-Proliferation. This will give a decisive impetus to the fact that what has been successfully started with an anti-mine convention, with all the questions of a ban on cluster ammunition, can also start new initiatives. I believe that this is an important point, which we have put together with the United Nations, with our partners. And this year we also want to create a new liaison office in Vienna for all the disarmament institutions that exist so that we can further coordinate this process in the future. That is why we can also say as a benefit from this two-year membership, we have strengthened Vienna's headquarters, we have created new institutions and we can also take a very positive balance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How do other countries view us with our membership of the Security Council? – I can point out that we have received many positive feedbacks. The American Foreign Minister Hillary Clinton has set new accents with us in the area of women, peace and security. She has especially praised us as Austria for our commitment to the Security Council. I was in China last week. My Chinese colleague Yang told me that China was really committed to the Austrian Security Council in these two years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] We have received a number of other positive feedbacks. It is only last week that British Foreign Minister Hague told me that what we started with the British regarding Sudan in the direction of a joint vote on the future of South Sudan has borne fruit and is also aware of this commitment of Austria. My Mexican colleague, who was with me in the Security Council, has made a similar statement about our commitment. We can therefore say that we have left a very positive impression as regards the world community and other countries represented in the Security Council. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My conclusions are, therefore, that first of all this commitment to the Security Council by Austria has produced concrete results – I mentioned the resolution 1894 – that we have strengthened Vienna's headquarters on the second, established our willingness to dialogue and Vienna as a location and hub for talks and peace, and that on the third, we have expanded our own horizon. Most of the conflicts are taking place in Africa. Through this membership of the Security Council, we have also learned a lot of expertise in our home. I think that this is very positive. I would like to thank our employees very much on this occasion. Ambassador Mayr-Harting in New York and Head of Division Huber in our home, the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs, both contributed to our maintaining this commitment in a continuous quality over the last two years. I would like to thank both of you, with your teams, very much for this quality work that has brought us as Austria as a whole a lot of reputation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Let me now come to the second part of what is happening in the Arab world! We have seen in this popular uprising in Tunisia, Egypt and now also in Libya the effects it can have. We can say today that the protest movement has already overrun Yemen, Bahrain, Algeria, Jordan, Morocco and Oman. Obviously no state of the region in the Arab world can assume that this protest movement will not take place in it. What causes it has, you can have a variety of opinions about it. But obviously, it was a popular uprising. This is certainly related to the fact that many young people in these countries have not seen a perspective, even if they had a good education. The high level of youth unemployment has contributed to the fact that the citizens have gone to the streets and we have to fight with these manifestations today, namely the manifestations that regimes have not allowed this protest, partly bloodyly beaten it down, just as it is still happening in Libya. I think we must draw our conclusions from this. The essential conclusion is that this is a great challenge for us as a whole, but also a great opportunity for the Arab world to come to other structures. democratic structures that will ensure a better basis for the future for the population. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Bitch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What can we now draw as a conclusion from the previous events? . We know that the United Nations Security Council has made a very clear statement on the need to impose sanctions on Libya on the one hand and on the other hand a clear sign of the regime's responsibility before an international criminal court. The Security Council took place on 25 July. February decided that the freedom of punishment for crimes against humanity must belong to the past. He asked the International Court that the situation in Libya since the 15th century. ==References====External links==* Official website This means that no one, who has to bear responsibility in connection with crimes against the demonstrators, can insist before a criminal court to say that this was the regime, but a personal responsibility of those concerned is to be considered here. I think this is a very essential aspect that we must always stress, so that now in this situation in Libya no one gets the impression that one could hide, but that – quite the contrary! – follow the consequences for those concerned who carry out such actions. That's good and right. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A number of sanctions were imposed on the European Union in the same way as the UN Security Council: Accounting and property barriers, travel restrictions, import and export bans for weapons. The Human Rights Council in Geneva, where I was yesterday, considered Libya's membership of the Human Rights Council to be worthy of suspension. I assume that today the United Nations General Assembly will also express this suspension of Libya. This too is a new sign that such possibilities are made use of, and that in a rare simplicity. With regard to the specific handling of the evacuation of Austrians, I would like to say here that we were well prepared that we issued a travel warning to the population in good time, that with a support team in all the countries concerned, we have also made sure that the Austrians come out of these countries without harm. This was a number of 5 000 Austrians in all the three countries concerned, which have now been evacuated. This has been a really good interplay between my house, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence. We also had machines of the federal army in use. Ladies and gentlemen, it was also timely. Many who are still in Libya today would be pleased if their states had responded in time and had brought them out. In the end, it is up to a state to intervene for its citizens and also to provide them with protection and assistance in good time. I think we can be proud that we have succeeded. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] What is important to us now is that we constantly observe this process, that we can ensure that we are operational. I am convinced that if we do so in the same way as the European partners, it will be possible to take advantage of the opportunities that result from it, also in the Arab world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9734	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9758	Madam President. Mr. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Foreign Minister, first of all to what you said: Yes, it is good and important and also right that you as Foreign Minister have ensured that the Austrians could be helped locally in the Arab world that we could safely bring our citizens back to Austria. These are all important and good measures that have been taken by you, no question! But unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly obvious that this government – and I do not take out either of the two government parties – wants to rid our Austrian neutrality. I say: That's not what it can be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not want our Austrian neutrality to be disposed of, we offer ourselves at the end of a military alliance and we may suddenly appear in the area of NATO cooperation. We do not want that, and that is not what the majority of the Austrians want. [[Abg. Grandruck: Gaddafi...!]] One knows from the SPÖ that she's pushing into NATO. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] I mean, we know that by the statements of the EU Member Swoboda. We have also had to listen with pity through the statements of the mayor of Vienna and head of state Michael Häupl when he came up with his proposals that we should also rely on other federal systems of the neighbouring states. We know that. [[Abg. Grosz: Is there a reputation for the matter?- Oh, my God!]] If the ÖVP in the form of Foreign Minister Spindelegger and also of Minister of the Interior Fekter now opts for a participation of 180 Austrian soldiers in an EU-Battle group, then it is known that all her lip confessions to neutrality are pure hypocrisy. We didn't lose anything there! 180 Austrian soldiers have lost nothing in Libya away from a UN mandate! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: we don't necessarily need 10,000 refugees!]] And no matter how you try to justify this now: It corresponds to a breach of our neutrality law, which you have proposed, but also the Minister of the Interior. And I say that we do not want to break our neutrality law, nor do we want to break the Austrian federal constitution, such as the BZÖ, the SPÖ and the ÖVP in this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, since we are committed to our Austrian federal constitution, but also to neutrality, and the majority of the Austrian population also says very clearly and clearly, there must finally be a stopover of this misdevelopment in our country. Austrian soldiers have lost nothing in armed conflicts abroad! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are there to protect Austria or to carry out tasks within the UN, but not within the framework of any military operations outside the UN. And they are not there to be subject, among other things, to an EU command to risk body and life in North Africa! They are here to defend Austrian freedom in an emergency, but Austrian freedom is certainly not defended in Tripoli. And this approach also fits perfectly into the embarrassing discussion of the past months. This is probably a kind of division of labour that the SPÖ and the ÖVP have carried out in the Federal Government: On the one hand, the Minister of Social Democratic Defence, who is planning to ruin the German army, on the other hand, the Foreign Ministers of the ÖVP, who, with the support of the Minister of the Interior, wants to ruin Austrian neutrality. This is obviously the work of this federal government. More and more Austrians are very angry about all the interviews they need to read in the newspapers and where you have actually already articulated this direction publicly. This is in fact the living security doctor of this Federal Government, namely: Get away with the military duty to get away with neutrality!, and ultimately eliminate the heritage of the founding fathers of our Republic. The inheritance of the negotiators of the state treaty and the inheritance of a Bruno Kreisky is also trampled with feet by this red and black federal government and like a cunt of waste paper is thrown carelessly into the garbage bin of history. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And we do not want and will not allow the Freedom Party to do so! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since all the other parties in this House can still shine with intermediate calls: This is not what the Austrian population wants! Of us liberals there is a clear and multiple confession: Yes to our neutrality! Yes, to military service! Yes, to the freedom of alliance! And no to a NATO accession or NATO cooperation, as is always thought of by parts of the SPÖ or ÖVP. I am convinced that the majority of Austrians see this the same way, because we do not want to be drawn into military conflicts in this world. The Foreign Minister has also talked about the UN today, and there is one thing that must be said: If we give up our military service, the high quality of our UN operations will no longer be maintained. Our blue helmets are high everywhere because they do good work. [[Abg. Wenninger: Do you want to send them back to the Golan?]] But, of course, this will not be maintained when it comes to abolishing the obligation of military service, because then there will be no or less money in these areas, there will be no infrastructure, and we do not want to do that! This government is driving a very bad game with our Austrian security! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, you are driving an evil game with our Austrian security! Instead of dreaming of international combat operations, Foreign Minister, you should rather make sure that the EU Border Protection Agency Frontex is strengthened instead of saying together with your Minister of the Interior: We immediately pick up 4,000 to 5,000 African economic refugees. - No! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Border Protection Agency Frontex is to be strengthened, but I do not hear anything about this from your side. And whether the events in North Africa, in the countries concerned, really lead to democratic structures, is the question. That is what we all wish for, but whether this will really be so, that is still in question. And if I look at the hypocrites of social democrats, who have until recently joined the Socialist International with the Party of Mr Mubarak, who until recently joined the Socialist International with Mr Ben Ali of Tunisia, and who, after both have been thrown down, could also express the exclusion, because before that, the international socialist friends and comrades should make the wall: That shows your hypocrisy in this question too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say we need honesty in politics and no hypocrisy! We want the Frontex, the Border Protection Agency, to be strengthened both in human resources and in financial terms to ensure that the EU's external borders are protected in the Mediterranean. But you are immediately going to obey, Mr Foreign Minister, and want 5 000 to 8 000 Libyan refugees to be taken up. I say it can't be! Austria has met its target for decades, even over a fee, when it received refugees. There should be help for people on the ground, and that is exactly what we have to do. But to invite them all to come to Europe, to Austria, that cannot be the wrong way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I ask you to finally take a clear and clear position on these questions, to express your support for neutrality, finally to revive neutrality, even within the framework of your foreign policy accents that you are setting – which, by the way, are very bad. Even if you are trying to present this differently now, we also know because of the Wikileaks publications that have taken place for years there has been a very, very passive and inactive Austrian foreign policy. They should also actively live and strengthen external neutrality policy – and do not endanger it and do not say: Please, come to Austria, all of us who want to come to us as economic refugees! That is not to be achieved! There the boat in Austria, as Cap has rightly said, is overcrowded at Weitem. The boat is full, I give you the right, but please accept it at last and acknowledge it. And see that we also solve the problems in other areas with correct answers – and not with the wrong ones you have given.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9927	Mr. Klubobmann Strache, for the multiple submission of the "Sin sanctity" I give you a call for order. The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9954	In a sense, the speaker’s speech was not a speech but a collection of allegations. It is not his intention to say that, but aproposing hypocrisy: Those who drove around in the tent of Mr. Gaddafi – whether that was the former vice-chancker, whether that was the Jörg Haider, Kreisky, all, the whole world! [[Call BZÖ:Kreisky! Bruno Kreisky!]] And you only confirm one thing: That this stability-thinking that one has joined forces with Kleptomans and dictators to represent economic interests is now coming to an end in the Arab region. [[Abg. Strache: The Socialist-Libysh-Arab People's Office, it is said in this...!]] You should recognize this once and try to see in it a chance, a chance for this room. Chance means, and the Mediterranean region is the southern part of Europe, that we now have to achieve that the European community of values also covers the entire Mediterranean. And if there are democracies there, and not only democratic developments, but if there is also a positive development there in the social field, in the economic field, if people see a sense of living and staying there, then I believe that is also the basis for a good relationship between the European Union and this area. And therefore, I think, this issue should not be treated with apocalyptic horrors, but as an opportunity for us as a Europe, as an opportunity for the European Union, as an opportunity for economic relations on a whole new basis of stability. And that is why I do not only understand your speech today, but also many other commentators if this is always dealt with only by the Apocalypse, because that does not help to solve the problem. We should now consider how we can assert our influence in the future in order to achieve a new form of stability. Then, of course, there are no flows of refugees, because then everyone sees a sense of living, staying there, working. That must be the goal. Historically, the Mediterranean region has always had a lot in common, and that is why one should try to do so in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since you've been acting like we wanted to. No human wants to abolish neutrality! I don't know where you've gotten that out. Even in the defence strategy we have to deal with here in Parliament, there will again be a strengthening in it that one remains of course with neutrality, with the legal situation that we have given ourselves. What I want to warn about – and this goes far beyond this house – is: In the Financial Times of Monday, the 28th. ==References====External links== “Only no military deployment in Libya!” – Of us nobody is discussing this anyway, but I say “No military deployment in Libya only!” also to the address of all those who may even think about such a thing. The Libyans themselves don't want to. They say this is exactly the argument of the Gaddafi with which he wants all Libyans to unite behind him, namely the Libyans who have already liberated in eastern Libya, in Bengasi and so on. In addition, you have to add Libya, tomorrow Algeria, Oman, Bahrain. There we are, in fact, in the entire Arab region, there is NATO or anyone there. I can only warn against that as a non-NATO member. This should not be a strategy, but one should do everything possible to achieve peaceable means of establishing democracies there. That'll be difficult enough, that won't be an easy way. There you will have to deal with forever yesterday's currents, with Islamists, with people who just want a new military organization. One of the main points would have to be that in Egypt, Egypt with 80 million inhabitants, Egypt, which has a geopolitically really crucial position with the Suez Canal, with the neighbouring countries. And there, please, must also be the first slogan: Chance instead of apocalypse!, and the second parole must be: Help yourself! People need to be told: If money is loosened here from the rich countries, then for these countries so that they can help themselves. I don't know if you know the Sekem model in Egypt – I have seen a report on it on TV once on 3sat for an entire hour –: The son of an Egyptian industrialist goes back to Austria, studies, goes back and makes 60 kilometers north of Cairo, in the middle of the desert, a farm structured according to biological principles, with vegetables, fruit, cotton, a textile factory, etc. There are now schools, modern schools, there is now a hospital. There's a university coming here now. Two thousand people are busy. And everyone sees what's happening there. – By the way, they had no support at all at all at the beginning, and now a little help will be given to them at the humanitarian facilities. And if there are many such examples, for example, where you can make the desert urable, that is a positive thing. That's what everyone sees and says: Okay, there will be loans from the rich countries, so that there is something there that makes sense that one produces there that one has a life perspective there, that one has an educational perspective there! – They now also supply the Arab region, which has supplied the industrialized countries with their highly valued products, and the one who initiated this has received his training in Austria. I think that's a kind of know-how transfer that's extremely positive. The “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” also describes the whole as “Berlin’s commitment to emancipation in these countries”, where the “Transformation Partnership” is spoken of, in the field of qualification of work, in search of cooperation in the field of renewable energy, in humanitarian projects, in the cooperation of universities. It is important that there is now this basis for a stable democracy to develop there. Otherwise, there is nothing to add except: The Hague is responsible for war criminals, crimes against humanity. That's where the court has to decide. The robbery of the population, not only of Libya, but also of other countries, Tunisia, Egypt, is also to be negotiated, and there are clear rules for this, and Austria has already begun to take the decisive steps. This is also important to win credibility among the people of these countries, in Egypt, in Tunisia and, of course, in Libya, where, I believe, we can make a lot of sense of what was often criticized in the beginning, that we have worked there from the so-called real-political insight under the motto “perhaps this can be changed in this way” with one or another Kloptoman or dictator. It is therefore important that the legal principles, the humanitarian principles, and a country like Austria, with its active concept of neutrality, a country like Austria with its know-how, a country like Austria with its credibility, I believe, can make a significant contribution here also in the European Union's concert. And I believe that the Austrian population also understands this when we say: Right must remain right, chance of apocalypse, and if we say: Help for self-help. If all of this is really presented here, I think we can be here in the House together – all five parties! – come to a consensus, because we must be interested in people having a perspective there, because of peace, democracy there, too, we will be participating in Europe. It is our Mediterranean in the geographical sense, and we therefore rely to the greatest extent that we are here contributing to this stabilisation, but a stabilisation in democracy, social security and future perspective – and not oppression and dictatorship!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10038	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10060	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The situation in North Africa has now shocked many people very much. In particular, the current events in Libya, i.e. the massive violence against demonstrating citizens, with jets, with snipers against their own population, has made many very concerned, many very frightened. In the meantime, we have over 1,000 deaths in Libya, over 100,000 people on the run, and I believe that in this situation one thing is very important: Austria should, in particular, show solidarity and solidarity with the victims and the people on the run. I think the answer is: Limits to borders close! is absolutely the wrong thing for people in such a crisis situation. It is precisely now that people who experience these situations need solidarity from Europe and, above all, from Austria. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies Mag. Worm and Power. Gaßner.]] While in Egypt, but also in Tunisia, the protests of democratization have still gone halfwayly across the stage, massive violence is now escalating in Libya. How this continues in Yemen, Jordan, Bahrain is open. In China and Iran, first demonstrations were suffocated again in the germ and brutally beaten, by the way, quite simultaneously, Mr Foreign Minister, when you were there. In Iran, opposition leaders are brought back from the homes by the police. So we are experiencing processes against democracy, against human rights in all these countries. Human rights are being trampled on, fundamental freedoms are not granted, and the question is what really should be the role of an foreign policy, which can be the role of a European, but above all an Austrian foreign policy. Hannes Tretter, Director of the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights, summarized it in a sentence, namely whether a dictator of this cut – Gaddafi he meant – had to be courted as it was. And this is a key point, which obviously also stands for Austrian foreign policy. Austria is calm and very reticent in terms of human rights, democratisation processes, until the time when the population has fallen this dictator. Before they are courted, and at Gaddafi that was particularly the case, it was particularly striking. 1.2 billion € Family assets now in Austria, very close political relations in particular with the FPÖ or FPK, supposedly also cash flows to FPÖ/FPK, Haider accounts, as last year's media spirited. All of this is extremely inconspicuous! And the FPÖ has also been called upon to operate hygiene and to cooperate on the question of where these funds come from, where they have come from, what happened to it, and to repay them to the Libyan people, whom these funds have been taken away. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For decades, for decades – Austria has been economically extremely committed in Libya since the 1970s – it has been very much focused in these states on stability, on economic interests, and it has also been very strongly argued that these dictators will already have the matter under control, and it has not been addressed the question of human rights and democratization, not over decades. The aim must, of course, now be to bring these countries into democratic structures in a peaceful transformation process. That's where they need support. But the most important thing that we have to do is to double the frequency of Europe, but also of Austrian politics. For years Europeans have supplied state-of-the-art weapons systems throughout the Middle East, including Austria. Germany has delivered 53 million technologies to disrupt mobile networks, GPS, to block the Internet, i.e. classic technologies to suppress civil structures and civilian resistance, the United Kingdom ammunition, tear gas, equipment for so-called crowd control, i.e. also to suppress demonstrations, other EU states fighter aircraft, helicopters, Kalashnikovs. The official 2009 balance sheet of Austria – which I have still considered – looks like this: Austrian arms exports 2009: Oman and the United Arab Emirates each €12 million for ammunition, Saudi Arabia €4 million, Kuwait €3.7 million. But Egypt, Tunisia and Libya are also there. This is official statistics. I would like to know whether there is also an unofficial statistics on these arms exports. And as long as Europe continues to do so, Europe and Austria remain extremely unbelievable. The ridge between so-called drones, which can only be connected to cameras, and Drones, who also use sharp weapons to get rid of the civilian population, is a narrower one. And one should really consider, in principle, the export of weapons that can be abused, which are used by the regimes against their own population – and we have now observed this in all these countries – to end and get out of there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why was one so hesitant about the closure of accounts? Why did all this take so long? – These are all open questions. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Last weekend we visited a native Egyptian who taught in Germany, and the question was asked: What do such movements expect from the European Union or specifically from Austria? The answer was very surprising. This Egyptian said: We're not expecting anything! I wish, she said to me, that the issue of arms exports is also being discussed in the Austrian Parliament, which is a very important issue for many, and I hope, above all, that we will be strengthened in this sense in our own development and that we will not be sacrificed again and again because of economic interests. And economic interests relate not only to security and stability, but also to raw materials. – This is the last point I would like to make. Of course, Austria is very interested in the fact that oil supplies from Libya are not stopped. A quarter of the crude oil imports come from Libya. For years it was delivered to the regime: Millions, billions of payments over all the years and decades. The only way out of this situation, that we are constantly dependent on regimes in the Middle East, but also in Russia – keyword: Putin with gas dependence – it is to look back once again and to find a way out, to think about how to end this oil dependence, where one always has to weigh human rights versus dependence. This balance is always for oil and gas supplies and never for human rights – we have often seen enough. The only answer is: Energy import independence, exit from these dependencies of dictators, exit from these deliveries, no more Austrian payments to these regimes. This is one thing you need to stress over and over again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, Mr Foreign Minister: It is painful to note that development cooperation was reduced precisely in countries with the lowest incomes, namely in Central Africa – exactly where Gaddafi raised his protective shield and sent children back to the desert after days of marching, after days of marching, sent back to death. That was the agreement with the European Union. And we don't want that anymore. We want solidarity now. In particular, we also want solidarity through development cooperation in those countries that need it, not along the Nabucco pipeline or in countries such as Azerbaijan, where new messages are opened, but exactly where people need it most. This is also your failure, namely, by allowing this by allowing you, as a foreign minister, this important area to fall victim to this important issue of international solidarity, simply budget cuts. So now you have to make the accusation that fate really doesn't matter to you exactly to those Central African states. And with the expansion of Frontex, we are at the fortress of Europe, and that is the opposite of solidarity – that is not Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10174	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10195	High house! Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all a warm thank you and a congratulations to the team that has done a very successful work in the UN Security Council for two years. This was absolutely all right and should also be respected here by the House. Just as a thank you for the so-called threesome situation, where Secretary General Kyrle with General Ségur-Cabanec and section head Anderl organized the return of the Austrians from Libya in the last days and weeks. [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. May. Unspoiled.]] On the weekend, the UN Security Council adopted a historic resolution in my opinion, and this, Mrs Glavischnig, in a very considerable pace – so it has never happened so quickly. And that at least three permanent Security Council members, who have not even ratified the Statute of the International Criminal Court themselves, namely China, America and Russia, have decided unanimously with all the other arms embargoes, travel restrictions, account locks and responsibility before the International Criminal Court, is, I believe, an impressive success for European diplomacy. After all, the text of England and France has been formulated. So that was already a remarkable thing to be recognized here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, the impressive appearance of Ibrahim Dabashi has also contributed to the fact that the Libyan diplomat, who has jumped down and who in a moving appeal has invited his brothers, the officers, to give up the support for the criminal leader Gaddafi. This has, of course, helped. It is now moving things in the right direction throughout North Africa: The military interim regime has now presented elements of a new Egyptian constitution. A so-called wise council, where the Muslim brothers and a Coptic Christian judge are inside, has proposed some significant additions to the Egyptian Constitution – perhaps not enough, but as an interim step very meaningful. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But no woman is inside!]] In Tunisia, the interim Prime Minister, who was still a member of the Ancien Régime, resigned. There are early elections in view. Political prisoners were released in Bahrain. And whether it is enough for the Saudi-Arab king to propose a package of 36 billion dollars to buy up practically dissatisfaction will be to be discussed first. So this is going in the right direction, but we should not underestimate the mistakes that have been made in particular by Europe, but also by the Americans. The first was to support Libya's application for the Human Rights Council. In fact, this has made the bock a gardener. Libya is now sitting in the UN Human Rights Council, and that is actually absurd at a time when Austria is recruiting – which we hope we all support. Having the Bock as a gardener there is absolutely pointless. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: It was wrong to give up the arms embargo against Libya in 2003. You have to say that clearly here. What has changed since then – and the Green Club has rightly pointed to arms exports? A few days ago, it appeared in the EU Official Journal who delivered weapons in Europe. And it's right, it's about €350 million in Libya alone last year. And if today British tear gas, Belgian munition, German interference stations to disrupt communication, guns delivered through Malta, Italian helicopters may have hunted or been used against demonstrators, then of course this is a shame. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: And from Austria?]] This has to be discussed, you are a hundred percent right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you're going around Abu Dhabi today – there's the big arms trade fair right there – then you can see what contracts will be concluded there. For example, the British alone have contracts of about £2 billion currently running. The Russians delivered $2 billion to Libya, and, and, and, That is to say, we must really discuss these matters honestly if we are to ultimately want a European foreign policy that really deserves that name. For the arms embargo a sentence: Of course, 2003 and 2004 were a very dramatic situation. At that time – by the way by American intelligence services and also by European cooperation – the deliveries for a complete nuclear equipment for Libya have been discovered and confiscated. That was confiscated in an Italian port at the time – I have forgotten the name now. At that time, things that have far exceeded the fears of the Western experts. At that time, supplies of 4,000 complete uranium centrifuges intended for the enrichment of nuclear material have been flown up, and blueprints for the construction of nuclear bombs, et cetera. Consider what it would mean today, in this situation Gaddafi would still have some nuclear technology! This is a disaster and must therefore also wake us up, for example, towards Iran. This is just as dangerous as it has ever existed with Libya. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore ask you today to adopt a joint resolution to support the Iranian opposition. I think it is a scandal that Karroubi and Moussavi, the leaders of the democratic opposition, have now been thrown into prison. I think it would be useful for the Austrian National Council to make an appeal to the Iranian leadership to release these opposition politicians, immediately and immediately. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You should not underestimate the mistakes in our reaction either: For example, at the height of the unrest in Tunisia, the French offered help from security forces to Ben Ali to suppress the opposition – absurd! Or, for example, that the Italians – I am not saying who – still called Mubarak the wisest of all men – are absurd! Or, for example, that the Czechs now, at the same time as a bloody massacre was executed in Tripoli, warned what a disaster would threaten if Gaddafi fell – absurd! I think we should take our own nose as well. Napolitano and Romano Prodi admitted this openly in impressive interviews – Romano Prodi yesterday in the Handelsblatt. We need to learn from these mistakes! First of all, no military experiments – completely right, said by everyone here! Secondly, We should offer our expertise. We know how to manage transitional societies. Thirdly, We're the biggest trading partner. And we have, please, unused resources. In the current budget for the next two, three years, 2011 to 2013, we have at least €6 billion of cash in the Commission's budget – of which half for North Africa – for this ring of friends in our neighborhood. We also have the possibility of up to €6 billion from the EIB, the European Investment Bank, for these areas. We should now take the opportunity to revive the Union for the Mediterranean. This is a time of departure and hope. It is true that there are also risks, clearly, but one should not let down the hopes that exist in the Arab world. It will also be up to us whether the Middle East will become a new East or a wild East. And since I firmly believe that the trend and trend in recent decades has shown more democracy, more market economy and more internationality in the world, I believe that we should take advantage of this opportunity and not be afraid of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10284	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10306	Mr President. Mr. Dr. Schüssel, when you made the comment on Egypt, you should also have mentioned that a debate on Egypt has just taken place in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and that in this debate our colleague Stadler told you that Egypt was in front of a military government, and that you rejected it as absurd at that time. Today we see the reality: As a transitional government, a military government is installed in Egypt. You know, you can remember. Today, you praise that. So, it was already foreseeable at that time what the next step will be. And openly, we see the situation and the upheavals in the North African region, in the Arab world not through a rosarote glasses like many others, because while Mr. El-Gawhary presents the healing world and a spirit of departure in the report of the ORF, people are still dying there and will still be in violation of human rights there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It cannot, ladies and gentlemen, continue to be the position of the European Union, as it is waiting for it to turn back and to be confident that developments in the Arab region can be calmed down in a natural way. Foreign Minister Spindelegger, you went to a diplomatic retreat. This is actually the status you are currently taking, because you can also see that the European Union and all your colleagues have been pressing the key to the European Union's inability to act. She's flawless. Nor is she agreeable, ladies and gentlemen. And that makes the whole assessment of the situation so difficult, the analysis of the causes. And that is a totally hopeless political approach to the situation you face. And if you're acting again and again today: Yes, Mr. Jörg Haider was one who has repeatedly given his hands to Mr. Gaddafi!, then I must say: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, take note at last of the fact that there has hardly been a European head of state and government who has not been seen in Libya in recent years, who has not pursued economic interests there, who has not also pointed out the people who are going to go down there and who have called for an end to human-respective policies. It was, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, Bruno Kreisky the First, as a door opener of the Arab world, who had already invited Mr Gaddafi to a state visit to Vienna in 1982. – Now there is entered silence at the SPÖ! [[Between calls at BZÖ towards SPÖ.]] No consent! Has Do you displace this on the occasion of the celebrations around Mr. Kreisky? [[Abg. Grosz: ( towards SPÖ) The Kreisky was the door opener for terrorists in Europe!]] Because Kreisky said until shortly before his death: Mr Gaddafi is a personal friend of mine! after being handed over by Mr Gaddafi to the highest Libyan state order, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: When was that?]] But today to represent the position that Jörg Haider is to be seen in a boat with Mr Gaddafi is a very short-sighted political analysis which I would like to reject. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] All the Heads of State and Government have given their hands over the last few years when it comes to securing the oil supply there and representing the economic interests. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer:... cashed for the party!]] Who cashed for the party? For which party? [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Don't talk about this nonsense, but take note that the first person who made Mr. Gaddafi's salonage a social democratic head of state, Mr. Kreisky. He was the one who opened the doors for later. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, back to the importance of the European Union. Mr Spindelegger, look at what policy the US is pursuing! That's the essence of what it's all about! The United States, which already influence the Arab region with warships and with US diplomacy, has only one interest: That is, to secure the oil supply there, to gather the oil producing companies for themselves. It's about purely American interests! The US is now turning to enemy, and the European Union is holding back, does not intervene, does not take action, does not take diplomatic action because the US is primarily pursuing American goals there. If there are all companies in American hands and all oil deposits are secured, then the US diplomacy will kill the switch and put it on a friend. Then the European Union will also understand the need to restore diplomatic contacts with the Arab region. But then it will be too late, ladies and gentlemen, because then the costs will come back to the European side. We will have to pay for oil price increases and we will have to deal with the flows of refugees. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the short-sightedness of European policy as it is currently being shown. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Italian Foreign Minister Frattini has already said it: The threat scenario is real. 300,000 refugees are expected over the next few months and years. This is the situation to be dealt with. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the real challenge! That is why it is important to step forward from the European Union now, to make it clear to the Arab people that they have liberated their country, that they can now live in a liberated environment, that they should stay in their country, that they should participate in the reconstruction, instead of leaving, leaving their country and seeking their soul healing somewhere else. This is also diplomacy, Mr Foreign Minister: to influence the people there and to encourage them to participate in the reconstruction and creation of democratic conditions in their own country, and to give them a perspective by telling them that there is a great opportunity for people throughout the Arab region and that this will also be supported by the European Union. That would be the first initiative we wish for! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The second initiative, which is also important, is that we take border protection measures, because if, in fact, 300 000 refugees come to Europe, we must be prepared for it, then Frontex must be upgraded and then we must work to ensure that not too many illegal immigrants come to us in the European Union. Italy has already made it clear that it is neither able nor willing to record the entire flow of refugees alone. Austria will also be affected by this. That is why it is necessary to make policy in the Arab area now, to take courage and to take an active part in it before the problem is with us. For the people there say of themselves: If the euro doesn't come to us, we'll come to the euro. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this must be eliminated and avoided! That is why we are saying, Mr Foreign Minister, that we are actively engaged in the Arab region, that we are using all diplomatic contacts and the reputation of Austria in the Arab area so that we do not face a greater problem than the European Union can handle.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10447	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10478	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher and Mr Westenthaler, the special developments of your party and also of the FPK or as you call yourself there with the Gaddafi clan will certainly be carefully examined. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] First of all, a few words about Austria and the UN Security Council. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: International terrorism!]] If you want to make a positive move as a non-permanent member and a small country in the Security Council, you need a lot of skill, lots of negotiating skills, great endurance and a convincing agenda. The very positive balance sheet – as already mentioned – after two years shows that issues such as the rule of law, the protection of the civilian population, strengthening the role of women and international disarmament were properly chosen and ultimately pursued consistently. However, this is no reason to rest on what is achieved, it is rather a task to continue to work for human rights and the protection of the civilian population through an active and committed foreign policy. It is precisely the events in North Africa and on the Arabian Peninsula that show how necessary this is. I think we are all deeply affected – this has shown up here – by the bloody events that take place in Libya. Unlike Tunisia and Egypt, the ruling regime has decided to wage war against its own population. I therefore expressly welcome the UN's decision to impose sanctions on Libya and to deal with the crimes committed against the population to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I also expect an exclusion from the UN Human Rights Council, as you have said, Mr Minister, perhaps this is happening today. Finally, yesterday the EU found its language – after too long silence – and unanimously imposes sanctions against Libya. Now it is necessary to implement these as quickly as possible and to consider measures for the whole region for humanitarian reasons, but also for security policy and economic considerations, because we must all be aware that the time after a revolution is extremely difficult and extremely fragile. It is therefore necessary to develop a strategy to support the region without delay. I would like to address another point here, because it also seems very important to me. The protests in the Arab states were and are equally borne and supported by women and men. Women like men have risked their lives, their health, their well-being in order to demand necessary reforms in their countries. I would like to express my admiration for the courage and determination of these people to put their countries on a democratic basis. Nevertheless, there is a wound point, namely the risk that women in the region will at the end be deprived of the right to political participation, their competences will not be used, they will not have any overall improvement or little improvement and thus society will remain tied up in pre-democratic structures. So there is a danger, ladies and gentlemen, that at the end of the day, when the vortex of the protest has been reversed, women and therefore half of the population remain excluded from the political decision-making process. A recent example of this is currently being found in Egypt. The women were more than their husbands in the revolution, they were on the front line, they were even fellow initiators of the revolution. And now there has not been a single woman called into the constitutional assembly of Egypt, which has begun her work in the past few weeks. In a democracy, ladies and gentlemen, women and men must have the same rights and opportunities to participate in the skills of state and society, from the very beginning and for the benefit of the country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This window of possibilities is usually only open for a short time before the structures re-fix or even harden themselves. That is why my appeal to you, Mr Foreign Minister, is: Please, make sure that women's equal rights are taken into account in the political reform process of the countries concerned and that women's participation rights are a criterion for EU cooperation and assistance! In this sense, Austria could also join the work in the Security Council and continue to engage in human rights and in this case in particular in women's rights. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10536	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Plassnik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10557	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I congratulate the Federal Minister and his team on the membership of Austria in the Security Council. They were the right priorities, they were the right decisions. Now it is up to you not to let it down. The next stage of our commitment is membership in UN Human Rights Council. This is why, together with the SPÖ and the Greens, we are also today introducing a proposal on this subject, on the basis of a resolution on support. There is also a possibility to link the work of the UN with the work of the European Union. But now to the situation in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of a new Mediterranean partnership, because we are hearing in these days from the Arab world the pervasive call for human dignity, for freedom and for openness. This call does not sound from individual groups, but comes from the middle of society, from the women and the men, from the boys and the old. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And he is – this is interesting – not to stop from using money or other promises or even violence from the previous rulers. Therefore, Middle East and democracy are no contradictions. Whoever has followed this false belief so far has been taught a better one today. Of course, the way to freedom from land to land will still be very different, and it will hardly be possible to go anywhere without bloodshed. But there is no doubt about the clear will of the peoples of the Middle East and the Maghreb to shake off the old conditions of rule. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are now witnessing a second wave of self-liberation: after the end of colonialism, the end of internal foreign domination by corruption and oppression. This is a reason for confidence despite the bloody birth pain. Europe, ladies and gentlemen, now has a lot to offer for peaceful transitions. Finally, after the Second World War, we made the new beginning with American aid, but after 1989 we also designed the peaceful transformation of the continent and the transition from Communism to freedom in Eastern and Central Europe. It is now wise to use this transformation knowledge. In my opinion, Europe should now also have the self-confidence to formulate its own plan. We should not reflect on the Marshall Plan, which is more than 60 years old and formulated by an American foreign minister, on all historical merits, and I am the first to underline them. I would like to see a plan of Europe that links the knowledge and resources of the various organisations, such as the European Union, the EEA, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, and provides the Arab partners with an eye-to-face view. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The time is therefore ripe for a new Mediterranean partnership between Europe and the southern Mediterranean. Such a partnership must urgently provide the transfer of knowledge for the rapid creation of the conditions for free elections and for the establishment of democratic institutions and procedures. Now it is necessary to rewrite constitutions, to re-write, to formulate electoral laws, to allow party formations, to establish electoral directories. In all these areas, Europe has a unique and worldwide valued knowledge. At the same time, of course, economic and social development needs to be targeted. For approaches, you only need to look at the Arab Human Development Report. Financial resources are available both in the Commission and in the EIB. Here we can specifically promote infrastructure and the economy, especially the medium-sized countries, and we should first and foremost address the needs of the recipient countries, not those of the donor countries. The area of access to education and a redesign of development cooperation is also important. Ladies and gentlemen, the women were on the front line, they are partners of this set-up. They want to participate in the modernisation of their societies. They must now be supported exactly in the sense of resolution 1325, because they will also be the most important fighters against extremism, human rights and against fundamentalism. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The European Union has a lot of political technology to offer on the subject of regional security organisations. Finally, a word for Israel, ladies and gentlemen. I understand all that Israel is seeing the new situation in the region with the greatest distrust, and I do not underestimate the real dangers of current developments, but Israel knows that it will only win sustainable security in partnership with the other inhabitants of the region. I therefore wish Israel the courage to be peaceable and the immediate breakthrough in the negotiations with the Palestinians which have unfortunately come to a close. It's not an option to watch.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10657	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10678	Mr President. Of course, I would like to join Mr Plassnik's wish. I too wish Israel and all those involved the courage to be peaceable. I also wish this courage to be ours in Austria and in Europe, because, Mrs Plassnik, one thing people in the countries concerned, whether in Egypt, Tunisia or Libya, certainly do not need: a new Mediterranean partnership or a new Mediterranean union. In principle, we have discredited these terms, because this Mediterranean Union, this partnership, is a symbol for people to cooperate with the dictatorships of our Europe, for the decades of increase in oppression, for the way in human rights violations, for the active support of security devices, for the establishment of oppression mechanisms. I can only point out that the French Foreign Minister Alliot-Marie, who has now resigned, is still on, I believe, 4. or 5. Mr Ben Ali and his security equipment were given the help of the French police to control the unrest. It has also resigned, but at that time there was no contradiction, no cry in Europe. The call came weeks later when Ben Ali was already sitting in Saudi Arabia. But what we need, and this has been said by our clubman Heinz-Christian Stracheklar, is an honest policy, is an honest approach to things and are honest words to our own people. And since it is not enough to talk about it, you have to draw conclusions as Mr Foreign Minister has done today, or you should not make the goats a gardener, but you have to say what you want, and you have to stand for it. We must say clearly, yes, we support democracy, we support the new regimes in these countries. But you have to act like it all the time. Yes, to say a sentence, as the Foreign Minister has so pleased today, that Libya or the rest of the Libyan regime is excluded from the Human Rights Council, which is probably a hypocrisy and a special-class in-de-bag lying. Before this step of being excluded from the Human Rights Council, Gaddafi will be afraid and the Libyan people will rejoice over this support. But where we should not rejoice so much, the continuation of our previous attitude is. I do not want to grow up in the wounds of Egypt, Ben Ali, Gaddafi and the Austrian relations, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in recent months and years. If we take out any state that is not yet in focus, we'll take Azerbaijan. This is a state where it has succeeded, what Gaddafi has predicted and almost made Mubarak, namely to continue to inherit the state, to own the state, to control the entire economy with his family members and friends, and then to pass on the inheritance to the son. There is a Mr. Ilham Aliev, that is the son of Geidar Aliev, who privatized the state in Mubarak-Gaddafi’s manner, there we have best relationships. We opened a message in June. I have chosen what Mr Foreign Minister said at the opening of the embassy: “As the easternmost Caucasus country, Azerbaijan is an essential cornerstone and fishing point in this concept. With the ‘double opening’ of an Austrian Embassy and Austrian library – we not only create a ‘basic camp’ for Austrians in the region, we will also be “righteous” to the situation, the country and its meaning. Well, that was in June, you can say that the world has been turning since then. But while Mr Ben Ali was already on the run in Tunisia and things were going on in Egypt, Mr. Foreign Minister also met Mr. Ilham Aliev on the verge of the Davos Conference. There has also been a statement in which it has stated that Austria and its Foreign Minister hope to continue and build cooperation with the country at the highest level. These are really not signals that people understand below, and that is not a clean and consistent foreign policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, it is not clear and consistent that it is said in the direction of the green corner that we are already looking forward to it now, after hope there will be refugee flows again and hopefully we can now hit a vortex here again and record 6,000 or 7,000 people, destabilize our system and weaken the countries by sucking the intelligence and the capable and the active people. This too is not an foreign policy, but a foreign policy can only be – that has already been said by a previous speaker – to give the people below a perspective to let them down. This also includes, of course, Mr Foreign Minister, lifting travel warnings after a revolution that has taken place as soon as peace has come there, because the destruction of tourism due to global travel warnings is disastrous. We have therefore decided to put forward a motion for a resolution that assumes that we should not paternalise the countries, not tell them what they must do, that we do not want Afghan or Afghan solutions. This is: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10778	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10849	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10870	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Foreign Minister, you have outlined and honoured the work of Austria in the Security Council, and you have first and foremost mentioned two points which we have of course always supported, namely the rule of law, the rule of law, to promote and strengthen in all countries of the world, and the protection of the civilian population in the event of conflicts. Of course, it is necessary to add that the governments of this world, and of course the Austrians are not excluded and the rest of Europe are not excluded, to remember the need for the rule of law, especially if the circumstances on the ground allow it, on the other hand, to give much more faith to the so-called security aspect, when and as long as one believes that the respective autocratic ruler embodies this stability inside and outside. At events in the Arab region, we now see how very so-called realists, representatives of the so-called real policy, can be wrong and how very idealists in the individual case, but in this case especially outstanding, can be right. No one has foreseen this development in the Arab region. No one has predicted that the populations there act, so to speak, out of secular motives, not from religious, even from Islamist, for a general surprise not carried by anti-Western resentments, for the time being, and thus initiated a movement that can only be supported and welcomed from the European point of view. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Schüssel has already pointed out that the reaction of the United Nations Security Council basically has a sensational quality, namely in terms of content and speed of reaction. Unfortunately, the European Union was not so fast. The EU did not respond until after the United Nations Security Council imposed sanctions and essentially joined the Security Council's sanctions. However, I must say that although the Security Council has expressly condemned the systematic violation of human rights in Libya, I believe that it is too deficient in our opinion as regards the countermeasures against this criminal policy of Gaddafi. Weapons embargo, travel bans for the Gaddafi clan, freezing abroad, that's all right and must also be carried out in Austria – Mr Pilz will still say to what extent Austria may have participated in arms exports to Libya – but one point is outstanding: The Security Council could not decide to establish a flight ban zone via Libya. In our opinion, this is a delicate story: If, with the help of his air force, Gaddafi not only allows foreign mercenaries from Africa to fly in, but also bombards civilian targets – with the corresponding losses of the civilian population – then this should not be accepted by the state community. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do you want to do? What do you want to do?]] It is, of course, a delicate thing because it is a drastic intervention into the sovereignty of a state – no question. But there are precedents, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, what do you want to do?]] I'm allowed They recall that a flight ban was then established in Bosnia by Security Council decision, which was then enforced by NATO against the Milošević regime. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you have been hard to criticize at the time!]] There was also such a thing in Iraq in 1991, but with a questionable international mandate. We therefore propose the following by making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This should not take place against the will of the opposition in Libya, against the will of the so-called revolutionary forces in Bengasi and so on. But the state community must seriously examine how to stop the attacks of Gaddafis or his military against the civilian population. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Many observers are reminded of the situation in Europe in 1989. And in fact, this Arab spring, if we are lucky – it is not yet clear how things develop – could develop into something similar. In this case, Europe would no longer be in the permanent conflict between the desire for stability and the intake of autocratic regimes and the defence and representation of European values, such as fundamental civil and freedom rights. We can only wish for all of this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10954	The motion for a resolution tabled is being debated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11016	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11037	Ladies and gentlemen! Giving good tips is relatively easy, even from the speaker's desk. It is also interesting how history changes opinions, because while colleague Van der Bellen today calls for a flight ban zone on Libya – clamp on: Question: Who should build and monitor them?Use custom fonts; I still remember very well – because he made the reference to a positive example in the former Yugoslavia – how This commitment was highly criticised by the Greens at the time. I also remember huge reports here in Austria, where they have been said, for the first time since 1941 Belgrade has been bombarded again, where this NATO action has been compared to the liberation of the Yugoslav peoples and the national socialist atrocities. Mr Pilz, it was you, too, who still had vehement criticism when we said that within the framework of the European Union, it could be useful to monitor flight ban zones. Of course, you also need airplanes and the corresponding device – at the time, the greens strongly debated and criticized. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Again and again: Evil were all people who had contact with these despots in Arab space and elsewhere. They were all angry – yes, the Ferrero-Waldner was evil, Mr. colleague – who said that Libya is an economic and political partner for Austria. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] The Kreisky was evil, the Haider was evil, everyone was evil. Just like all the generations of politicians who have maintained contact and political dialogue with the Soviet regimes of Eastern Europe for decades. They were all evil, all that was terrible – in retrospect. Before, of course, everyone was happy and said that this is useful and right, because there are economic contacts. But above all – and for this I stand, ladies and gentlemen, and not always in retrospect speak differently than before! – it is important, because there are only two ways to deal with such regimes: either to bring them away militaryly – that is usually not possible, and there is also strongly criticised – or to try, in a dialogue, in a constant dialogue and in a critical dialogue – not always after this friend-enemy scheme, but in a critical dialogue – to try to bring these regimes on a better path. [[In the case of BZÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. May. Worm.]] And this is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. And this should not be criticized in retrospect, but it should be approved. And we were all happy – even though it was a despotic regime that disregarded human rights – that the international community succeeded in bringing the Gaddafi regime away at least from the support of international terrorism. A small but important progress! Only, ladies and gentlemen – and I now criticize it again – there is just seemingly – and also guided by the interests of the USA – only a friend-enemy scheme: If you switch to “enemy, ” you must not talk to these people, even if it would be useful. If you switch to “friend”, then everything is suddenly allowed to go down to arms supplies, but then it is not talked again about the important things, for example about human rights, because they are friends and with them you don’t talk to anything unkind. This is, as I believe, the problem of international policy, and the UN must also address it, as is the case with the European Union. It is this dual nature of politics that we should criticise accordingly and where we need to find another way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now that all of this is heroizing, it is precisely the wrong way: first, to present the Mubarak as a hero who played an important role in the Middle East conflict, and now to say: Hurra, now with the revolution the great stability breaks out there at all! instead of really resorting to the possibly critical scenarios. Then: One reason – not the only one, but one reason – why this movement against Mubarak in Egypt was also his pro-Israel policy, because he bombarded the tunnels of the smugglers in the border area to Gaza a few months ago and died there also Egyptian people. The It was a reason because there is also an anti-Israel vote in these regions. And if these forces prevail – we don't know, we don't hope – what does this mean for the Middle East peace process and peace in this whole region, which also affects us? What does it mean, if it fails to create stable conditions, and then in the future, to stand Islamists as the only ones who want to bring stability and secure structures to people there? – These are all things that we have to deal with instead of talking about here in a small car: Who has had any contacts?, ladies and gentlemen. At the time, as Minister on behalf of the European Union and in consultation with the European Union, I had contacts with many of these countries and regions and held important talks. That is the important thing: to lead the dialogue, but not to believe with the raised finger that we can move our democratic system one to one all over the world. Human rights are indivisible, but democratic systems must develop. Everything else would be dangerous to world peace.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11127	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11149	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Scheibner, you have pointed out the critical dialogue, which is of course important and necessary. And being smarter afterwards is not an art either. Today, the colleague Bucher mentioned the Middle East diplomacy of Bruno Kreisky, the attempt to create an active neutrality policy in Austria with the world, and we are still proud that we were able to create an important part of peace in this world. Because you've replicated Bruno Kreisky: In 1983 Bruno Kreisky resigned. The attack, led or inspired by Gaddafi – I remember Lockerbie, where almost 300 people have died, long disputed from the Libyan leadership – was then 1988. More has already become known here as the revolutionary leader of Libya, who is doing such a cruel bloodbath in the world today. Therefore, one cannot always compare everything and must also see it in relation to the time. [[Abg. Wheelers: Distance yourself!]] [[Abg. Wheelers: Then distance yourself!]] You have missed the opportunity, Mr Bucher, to apologise for this – Jörg Haider can no longer do it today because he has been hurt. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Petzner and Mr Kickl.]] In 2000, the then Klubobmann or Land Captain Haider was still driving to Libya, which was 30 years after the Kreisky diplomacy took hold in the Middle East. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now, Minister of State, to the role of Austria in the Security Council. It was and can be congratulated here and also all those who have made sure that Austria has the confidence that it has been chosen. Here I would like to mention the then Minister Plassnik, Wolfgang Schüssel, Alfred Gusenbauer, Peter Jankovitsch and, and, who have made sure that Austria is a member of the Security Council. And we have – and I would like to thank you for thanking high diplomacy – not disappointed this confidence in the world. Some of the questions that have been put in the foreground have been mentioned here. Resolution 1325 on the need for “peace, women, security” to play a greater role in this resolution ten years later. It was also mentioned that various measures were supported to use nuclear programmes peacefully, and, and, Austria has again played an important, necessary and peaceable role. Thank you very much also, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But now, in view of all these pictures that have been shown to us in the last few weeks, all these hopeful young people, who, starting in Tunisia, then went on the road in this historic place in Cairo, which has now led to this tragic massacre that Gaddafi is setting up, I agree with the honourable Member and former Foreign Minister Plassnik that we must find European answers to help these countries, on the one hand, economically but, on the other hand, politically, so that they can hold democracy in this area. We've already shown that we can have a lot of know-how. 1989 – Mr Van der Bellen mentioned it – when we helped when Western Europe helped to build the democracies in the East after the fall of the Berlin Wall, then we did a lot of things. And if we pass on this pattern – without interference, without premeditation, really at eye level – then, I believe, we have managed to play an important role in our space and for the people on the ground. In this sense, I wish us much success.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11223	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11245	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The election to the United Nations Security Council was a sign of trust and advance of confidence for Austria. Under your chairmanship, Mr Federal Minister, we have taken the great opportunity to launch our own initiatives and to contribute to the strengthening of human rights and the rule of law, to the fight against impunity and to the protection of the civilian population. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, the current events in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya show how important human rights work is. We are witnesses to a wave of emancipation and democratization, as well as the human courage to stand up for their own rights in the Middle East, for self-determination and democracy. But we are also witnesses of loathsome crimes of the Gaddafi regime against the Libyan civilian population. These terrible pictures and events in Libya show us how important the protection of the civilian population is. Unfortunately, violence against women and girls is still a reality in the third millennium. As has already been pointed out several times today, this injustice must be demonstrated in a persistent and uncompromising manner and, therefore, resolution 1325 must be implemented quickly. Protection of the civilian population, in particular of women and children, in armed conflicts is one of the Austrian priorities in the UN Security Council. Under your chairmanship, Mr. Federal Minister, resolution 1894 on the protection of the civilian population was brought into armed conflicts of Austria and adopted unanimously. The Security Council has imposed sanctions on the Gaddafi regime and has dealt with serious human rights violations in Libya to the International Criminal Court. This has happened very quickly for the first time and is a warning against all authoritarian regimes in this region. Austria's position as a hub for peace has come true again. However, we are also in dialogue in promoting the Scientific and Education Committee. With our declarations for enhanced cooperation in the European Union, very well for the Mediterranean, for strengthening the partnerships in the Balkans, for the Danube and the Black Sea regions, we are actively committed to strengthening dialogue at the scientific, civil, cultural and democratic levels. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has moved a lot. Austria will do much in the EU within the framework of our international cooperation in the UN Security Council to jointly secure this protection of the population and promote democracy in these regions.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11324	The motion for a resolution tabled is being debated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11400	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11422	Mr President. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the SPÖ who have today tried to suggest a canon of values, which is a bar of any basis! I can remind you, about one and a half years ago, that your SPÖ defense minister Darabos sent the Tyrolean military chapel to the 40-year revolution celebrations of Mr. Gaddafi. [[Call the BZÖ:Well? That's it?]] I can also remind you that your former federal party... [[Abg. May. Worm: They can't be sent, the Tyroleans! Don't insult us!]] – You sent the military chapel to the Gaddafi, which we will not be able to explain. [[Abg. Grosz: It's been a long time!]] But there are also more recent examples. For example, your former high-ranking party chairman and former German Chancellor Gusenbauer is now the direct advisor to Nursultan Nasarbajev, with which Kazakhstan may be a demonstration democracy in your eyes – in my eyes it is not, because there are serious problems there. If the high level of social democracy were to cooperate very closely with – I say so now – very dubious regimes in this world, then it would be good if you were to be a little moderate here. I do not want to remind you of your North Korean delegation in detail now when Parliamentarians from you wanted to drive to Pjöngjang and officially attend the party meeting. Gerettet just told her that the party day... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] – Goods You're not with a SPÖ delegation in Pjöngyang? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Of course you were there. It's embarrassing to you, and I know. And if you shout like that, nothing will change. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Heinzl.]] But very briefly reminded the Foreign Minister: the EU-Africa Conference. It has been three months since our Foreign Minister was treated with Muammar Gaddafi in a very smiling, shaky way. – But not only our Foreign Minister, but there were 52 African Heads of State and Government. It was the European Union's premieres, Van Rompuy, Barroso, who were all there and shook Gaddafi's hand. One might think that our policy has become smarter and that those regimes where there are problems are confronted in an honest way with it. It was our foreign minister, accompanied by the vice-president... [[Abg. Heinzl: You didn't even know where Pjöngjang was half a year ago!]] – Mr Heinzl, it’s still time to talk, you don’t have to go in the direction of heart attack right now. Our Foreign Minister visited the People's Republic of China recently with Vice Chancellor Pröll and there also with the Prime Minister in conversation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Foreign Minister, I don't know, did you tell the Prime Minister that your heart is at the Jasmin Revolution? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Have you agreed to the Prime Minister that we are seeing serious problems in the area of human rights? - I say no, you didn't. For in your policy, especially foreign policy, the principle – you know the quote – is: Whom I eat, the song I sing! [[Abg. Heinzl: I don't know where Pjöngjang is!]] You're saying: Whols oil I buy, the song I sing! Or: Whoever I'm doing business with, I'm good at it. - And that's indecent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The same policy exists in the European Union and in the Western world, including the United States of America. Mrs Hillary Clinton has waited until the end to give a small opinion. Then, when it was clear that Mubarak was falling, the U.S. government began to argue him dead in further consequence. That's exactly what the problems are: Now the Americans are collecting the fifth fleet in the crisis area, and Austria is showing a kind of blancomandat: Yeah, we're taking part in the Battlegroups. – I would like to say the following: You have to be very careful on which side you are facing, if now al-Zadahiri, one of the highest representatives of the Al-Qaeda, is already starting to bring these revolutions together and bring down the regimes together with the demonstrators. It's important where Austria is at the end. [[Call: Which side are you on?]] I do not want it to be on the side of the Al-Qaeda to overthrow these regimes under the guise. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11569	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11590	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! According to the unbelievable stories of representatives of the Federal Government or the government parties, I would like to make three statements on the Austrian role. First: the successful home of 40 Austrians from Tripoli. Foreign Minister, you know exactly that the Army News Office in Libya has caused a total chaos and was only able to determine the right route by middle-class men in Libya, so that 40 Austrians could safely be led through the so-called South Route to Tunisia. Now the Army News Office disputes with these middle men in Libya whether more than €25 should be paid to honors per rescued Austrians. Great, generous – I congratulate you on this “professionality”! Secondly, Dr. Schüssel, I assume you just don't know, but your Foreign Minister should know: There are not only – and you are right – condemnable British, German and other arms and military exports in recent years to Libya, but there are also Austrian exports. I'll tell you about it now, and I'll show you the contracts and the delivery terms. What happened? – There are 32 of them in Libya. Brigade, led by a son of Gaddafi, by Khamis Gaddafi, the so-called Khamis Brigade. This is the elite unit of the dictator. This elite unit, the Khamis Brigade, is now passing through the third largest city in Libya, through Misurata. It is supported by an Austrian war material export, by drones from the company Schiebel from Wiener Neustadt. – I have here the contracts, the e-mails, everything to document. [[the speaker shall keep written documents up to date]] The total value of the delivery of four drones: over €7 million. They were delivered in 2009. What can these drones and what are they doing in Misurata? – The so-called Camcopter S-100 from Wiener Neustadt flies in about a kilometer – without any chance of the demonstrators and demonstrators knowing what is happening – and reports exactly to the Khamis Brigade, where demonstrators and demonstrators are just there. And they can then be persecuted and killed in good time by the Khamis Brigade. That's happening right now in Misurata! You know very well § 1 paragraph 8 of the War Material Act – there are clearly drones of this kind. Mr Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, you, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Defence should have examined this export of war material and should never have approved it. You didn't even check him out. There's no permission. This is an illegal export of war materials. And this is Austria's only significant contribution to the current situation in Libya. You have been silent in human rights policy. You have been silent in democracy policy. And when it came to delivering murder instruments for the Khamis Brigade, the Federal Government looked away. I ask you to clarify how it was possible that these four drones could be delivered to the Libyan military, to which Khamis Brigade was in front of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That was the first point – let me not forget the second point, because yesterday alone so many people from informant circles and circles of knowledge have reported themselves to me in order to show me a lot. There are two Gaddafi parties all over the world, which has now become clear to me: One stands in Libya in front of destruction, the second is the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] I received very precise information yesterday on how Tripoli's millions have been transferred to the Liechtenstein accounts of Saif Gaddafi and how politicians have been served from there. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] A large part of this money, according to this information, has gone to Jörg Haider and the Freedoms in Carinthia. Mr Strache, I ask you to open the Gaddafi millions of the Freedom Party and make sure that these funds, which have also been stolen for you in Libya, are returned to people! [[Abg. Strache: (making the wiper) Maybe you didn't turn on the wiper!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11684	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11705	Mr Pilz, if the Greens from their founding phase reveal the Gaddafi millions they have received, then, I believe, Mr Strache will also be ready to disclose his finances. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There could be some interesting aspect. Gaddafi was at the time one of the great sponsors of the new left movement. Don't pretend you don't have anything to do with him. Ladies and gentlemen, I would actually like to start with a quote that goes towards ÖVP, formally, but in fact comes from the SPÖ. I quote Bruno Kreisky: “If you want to sell your meat and your wood in the Arab room, show another courtesy. There is no body part in which you do not want to crawl into the gentlemen.” – Bruno Kreisky, 20. January 1983. [[Abg. Strache: That wasn't a call for order back then!]] - No, that caused a bit of a tumult at the ÖVP. [[Abg. Grosz: That was a fact report!]] To this end, the “socialist correspondence” has sent forth, I quote – Mrs Wurm, now you need to be careful, that tightens Her historical understanding of her own party history –: “Today we have so many cattle in the stables that we don’t know where to go. “This problem we solve, among other things, by allowing the Gaddafi to buy us 30,000 bulls annually,” Kreisky makes it easy to jump into foreign policy – from the cow stable – into foreign policy, “which he does not neglect. And here again, he does not forget to expose the ÖVP with its ridiculous criticism of the Gaddafi visit in Austria. This criticism, which may have fallen on fertile soil, appears in quite a different light if the Federal Chancellor can point out that the ÖVP farmers’ representatives have nothing to do with cattle exports to Gad dafi.” – Quotes. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Listen! Listen!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] - That's what you're talking about, isn't it? Not to be outraged now, Mrs. Wurm, because, in your opinion, Kreisky is the “saul saint” of the Social Democracy of the Second Republic! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – Do not sit in there casually, Mrs. Worm, but do not hesitate to talk about Kreisky! You of the SPÖ have made the mistake that you have believed you can argue here with the method “Hold the thief!” a foreign policy debate. – But this has been colossal, Mrs. Wurm. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There you were completely wrong advice; by the way, this was a completely false “pattern” by your clubman Cap, who started with this method. But actually, you clubman Bruno Kreisky should have known and know that. In any case, I remember this quote very well. Have you already overcome, Mrs Wurm, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, that 20 percent of the crude oil refined in Schwechat comes from Libya? [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Of course you have nothing to do with this. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who is the chairman there?]] – And Mr Ruttenstorfer is never – never! – was a social democrat; of course, this is just a rumor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Again: 20 percent of the crude oil refined in Schwechat comes from Libya – but Mrs. Worm, of course, never rides with Libyan petrol; on that she places great importance! [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Since I am just there and because the ÖVP is so loud in between: ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Well, what did she do there?- Oh, my God! – Ferrero-Waldner has of course never been a black one! Hannes Farnleitner, the “Vignette-Man”, visited Gaddafi in Libya in 1997. I would also like to remind you: Heinz Fischer, a great representative of social democracy, also a great human rightsist, was president of the Austrian North Korean society – Kim Jong-il, also a “great” democrat and humanist. [[Abg. Grosz: The human rights expert!]] [[Abg. Grosz: A humanist of our time, Heinz Fischer!]] In fact, it doesn't matter if Mr. Heinzl was still in North Korea; he didn't notice there at all – at most because he differs in his body fill from the people there, which is perhaps the only form. – Not my colleague Wittmann either, is it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] – Do you have anything else to contribute to this? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And: What's going to be You do when Kim Jong-il falls, Mr Heinzl? What's going to be Then you do? Will you also say that the BZÖ is guilty that Kim Jong-il was in power for so long? [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I'm just telling you about the SPÖ: You have today started the attempt to hold a missing debate by pointing your finger at us, but in reality and long time with these dictators are under a cover! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] High house! It would be good for this Parliament to conduct such debates more honestly – and look at them in advance in your own history. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] Or to say it to Bruno Kreisky: Learn history!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11903	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11924	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address questions raised in today's debate. First of all, the situation of refugees who are currently coming from Libya, and that this may also affect Europe: I spoke in detail to my Tunisian colleagues yesterday in Geneva and I can tell you that there are currently about 100 000 refugees from Libya in Tunisia, which is not clear how they can be supplied or how they will be sought in another country. Surely more refugees from Libya will be expected. So this is the situation we have. What we have to do is that when a wave of refugees comes to Europe, we have to be prepared for it – and that is to be guaranteed within the framework of the Federal Government, precisely in connection with the European Union. Secondly, as far as neighbourhood policy is concerned, Mrs Plassnik has referred to it: I believe that we in the European Union, as one of the conclusions to be drawn from this situation, must generally consider our neighbourhood policy. It is probably no longer up-to-date for the whole Mediterranean region to set up a policy, but we must make it different from one country to another – and make it possible to link economic cooperation with our expectations as regards human rights as far as democratic standards are concerned. I believe that we must set up a new policy. Thirdly, the question was raised by many speakers as to whether to contact regimes such as those in Libya, as they do in many other countries. – Answer: Of course, ladies and gentlemen, because it would not be better to go beyond naïve, one would think that there should be no contact with these countries. [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] There would be no petrol at Austrian gas stations, there would be no contact with these countries. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But the woman Worm believes, the spray comes out of the tap!]] [[Abg. Grosz: She believes that for Diesel the base is the Styrian nuclear oil!]] Of course, attention must also be paid to our value situation in each individual contact. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I do this in my foreign policy, as my predecessors did, because: Human rights issues are indivisible and are also addressed in the right place in these regimes. Mr Vilimsky asked me if I did this in China. – Of course! And I do that even if there are cold faces on the other hand that are not satisfied, for example, with human rights issues in China, but of course it is necessary for a foreign minister to do so. And I do it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say that Mr Pilz said there was a violation of the war material law. I am looking for you to make your documents available to me – and I will cause this to be checked. If it is the case that it is true, then of course it will have consequences; that can't be different at all. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, we must draw the right conclusions from this debate. It is important to me that we link economic cooperation with our values, but now we do not pour out the child with the bath, so to speak, but we remain realistic that, of course, we respect the value structure that we represent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12005	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12037	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Dear students from Waidhofen an der Ybbs! First of all, I would like to stress that I feel it is extremely embarrassing, such as Mr Stadler, but also Mr Strache, and partly colleague Bucher, on the back of millions of people who have been trying for weeks on the Arab Peninsula and in North Africa for freedom, democracy and for their social existence, to profile here internally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] This is not the access that social democracy has to the emancipation movement in these countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am also concerned that we can also evaluate the current demonstrations and uprisings against poverty and oppression from a responsible European perspective. The question should be asked as to the direction in which the routes in this region are put. It is about living conditions, about the social future of millions of people in North Africa and on the Arab Peninsula, but it is also about the future of Europe in connection with the development of a region that is only two hours away from Vienna and which we traditionally have very close economic, but also cultural and historical links. In addition, Mrs Plassnik has criticized the call for a "Marshall Plan" for this region: Whether the "Marshall Plan" or "European Initiative" is to support this region is secondary; it should not fail in the title. The fact is that Europe and the international community must take responsibility to ensure, on the one hand, that people in these regions have a social future perspective, and, on the other hand, that hopes arising from this revolution do not divert into extremism, instability and mass flight. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would now also like to make a few words on this report on the role of Austria in the past two years as a non-existent member of the United Nations Security Council. I believe that these two years Austria has mastered all the major issues that world policy has dealt with, and I am very glad that you, Mr Foreign Minister, formulated in your foreword that this phase of membership in the UN Security Council has led to a “globalisation shift of Austrian foreign policy” - I quote. In this report, Mr Federal Minister, you also say that we should take this globalised internationalization of foreign policy with us for the future. I believe that, compared to the past, when we were very Europe-centered for many years, we have seen ourselves concentrated on the Danube region, up to Croatia, that we must apply this internationalisation of foreign policy more effectively in the future. I have a very specific appeal to you, which I have already sent you by e-mail. – Now, everyone has failed a lot as far as cooperation with this region, the Arab North African region, is concerned. There is currently a decision to extend the EU-Morocco fisheries agreement. This is the territory of the Western Sahara in the Atlantic. I would like to appeal to you, Mr Foreign Minister, but also to the entire Federal Government and, above all, to the Minister of Agriculture, not to support this agreement in order to signal that Europe has learned from the experience of dealing with authoritarian regimes in North Africa. Finally, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12118	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12188	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12209	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this debate is going on several times today in view of the tragedy, given these events that are currently taking place in North Africa while we are debating here, namely that it is actually unworthy to have such a debate over a long period of time. The cattle of Kreisky are so to speak, and the neutrality is brought in, when one is accused of who shakes his hand and so on – and at the same time, thousands, hundreds of thousands of people fear their lives and fight for freedom in North Africa. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] [[Abg. Grosz:... Raiffeisen...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should work together on a strategy to help countries there. I believe that this would be appropriate in view of this discussion and in view of this situation, and not that we are making mutual reservations about who gave the hand to whom the cattle has delivered. – This is my access. I believe the following and appeal to you: If we want to benefit from this discussion or this issue, we can only work together with the other institutions – with the European Union, with the UN – here. I don't want to go to semantics now, dear colleague, whether it's called "Marshall Plan" or something else. "Marshall Plan" is just a synonym of help, as Europe was built up. This is what Mrs Plassnik said, namely that we should develop a plan here to help the countries there. Today there are a lot of experts. Everyone knows what's going on. Only: No one knows where it's going. I can quote an excerpt from a letter of readers that I read in the early days – without committing a plagiarism, for I mention the author's name, which is a Peter Fox of Oftering, who wrote today in the “New Volksblatt” under the title “Arab Hope”: “It is brewing in the Arab world. The spiritual heirs of the Laurence of Arabia want more. Somehow this protest movement reminds of the French Revolution. Here again, it is about freedom, equality, brotherhood. Just according to our spirit of time.” – Then he mentions the case of the Berlin Wall, which no one has predicted, and the situation that has now arisen. So I think no one can say today, at this point, how the final result will be, but we have the power to influence it through joint actions. It is a shame that we received the Green Group's request to make a flight ban zone there so late. With some changes we could have joined this quietly, but we have, of course, taken measures by the United Nations, on the part of the European Union. [[Abg. Scheibner: Let anyone else do everything!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Priority – and this has already been mentioned today – in all these discussions and conflicts, human rights must have and respect for them. I believe that if human rights are violated when people are murdered, when entire peoples are murdered, then there must be no neutrality, then we must not reject and say: We are neutral, we have no responsibility! All despots, all tyrants around the world must know that they are caught to be held responsible that when they are caught, they come before the Hague Tribunal, just as it happened to Serbian war criminals. [[Abg. Street:... the Austrians... China...!]] With this knowledge, and consciously, I believe, some will consider taking measures that are genocide and that have been most infringing human rights, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I will bring to the end my four-liner, which, of course, deals with this subject: The villains in the villains should pay for their villains. And every villain shall see how the villain shall be. Ahmadinejad also knows that he has an expiry date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12306	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12327	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A debate which deals with foreign policy is, of course, indissolubly linked to the consideration of security policy, and it is challenging, of course, to invite us to adopt reflections of a moralising way in the past and present way, how this is particularly practiced by the left hand of this House, which I see from my point of view. At the same time, this is an incredibly questionable example of how you can find yourself – in the current situation – hard to find. So if we want to divide our things accessible to the knowledge of the world in the past, present and future, we can say that we deny knowing the past, believe in the present and know the future – but of all of this we have only fragments at our disposal. All the more so, it is advisable to have the morale neatly packed in terms of external and security matters. There have already been some historical examples of how much you can cut next door. A beautiful example, which social democracy should perhaps not forget, is the following: I remember the events in the then Soviet Union, the later Russia, around Gorbachev and its perestroika, when there was a small counter-revolution. Gorbachev was arrested and returned by the then Minister of the Interior of Pugo and his spats at his place of vacation in Sochi. This shaken the world, and on the day that this happened, then Chancellor Vranitzky has hurryed to announce about the media that he was grateful to Gorbachev, despite his long mistrust and reluctance, which was the recognition of the new Soviet internal policy. – However, after three days the ghost was over: Yelzin was brave, and Pugo shot himself. A mistake can be accomplished as quickly as possible and so quickly disproves moralization! A recent example: The Director of the Museum of Applied Art Noever, who is closely, closely linked to social democracy, has given an example of adoration or grant to North Korea by his last year's unbearable exhibition in the MAK, in which an opulent catalogue has been exhibited and distributed, for the best. [[Abg. May. Muttons: Have you seen them? Did you see her?]] – So it can go quickly with moralizing effects that are directed against the one who is moralized. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would remind you of the key point, which has been known since the excellent French Foreign Minister Talleyrand, which said: Foreign policy – I am a little stranger to the sentence – is not a policy of friendship, but a policy of interest. First and foremost, the Austrian Foreign Minister has to represent Austrian interests and then the interests of the neighbours and then the interests of the whole world. Secondly, we cannot debate foreign policy without a security policy. We were able to learn about the media two hours ago about the resignation of the German Federal Minister for Defence, Guttenberg. [[Abg. Strache: At Darabos he is still outstanding!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] For Darabos, such a program is still available – perhaps – if you think that the voluntary army, which Darabos has promoted, which he wanted to imitate the German Guttenberg, works even to 10 percent. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] Warns Austria of misguided idealistic phenomena, which are caught in the net of nothing!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12403	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12425	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is certainly a subject in which you can congratulate everyone who has always known it exactly, no question. However, one thing is always clear: In addition to what honourable Member Scheibner described – I can agree in large parts of this analysis – that one distinguishes only between friend and enemy and boycotts everything in the enemy scheme, which may not be so well done, and allows everything in the friend's schedule, which is only quite not done when it comes to this kind of bloodthirsty potential, there is already another possibility, such as to support or look at the democratic movements. This is usually only a narrow ridge and a narrow path, but all the more attentive one could look at. In this respect, the role of Austria in the EU might also be strengthened. But usually something else happens anyway – wursters what scheme you are currently in: We usually deliver weapons and do business. And you can already question that, and there you can behave differently. Mr Foreign Minister, we are glad if you want to follow up on the case with the dramatic example that has been set out here by Mr Pilz, but it is striking that such things always happen from the Austrian soil – and I believe that in the past, we should have a little more care, that not only from Austria, but also from such dictatorial regimes, we should have arms delivered. That must have been a command of the hour, and that would have always been the case, but no, you have arranged yourself carefully again and again, and you have also hoped people. One more thing: The UN Security Council's decisions were, of course, taken relatively quickly, as honourable Member Schüssel said – the EU was already much slower. However, I have to tell you one thing: We have looked closely at the sanctions law and the foreign exchange law. Identifying and freezing at least the monetary assets of the Gaddafi clan would also have been possible autonomously in Austria much earlier. And that would have been correct and sensible, because not every European country can be expected to have the same amount of Gaddafi money from the outset. But one thing you can accept: In Italy and Austria there is relatively much of it, with certainty. And that would have been a faster and more autonomous approach. I already know that this does not fall within your competence alone, in which the Federal Government, or in the event of danger in default, what one has to notice here, is the competence of the Federal Chancellor. We don't want to let that happen here, because it's been dragging for days. We had contact with the central bank last week, but nothing went on until this morning. I hope that, in the meantime, there will not be – and that would be possible, and the essence of the Austrian banking secret is not even so easily behind it – money has already been deducted. And then I wonder who's responsible. It is not always possible to talk about the EU when autonomous action is also possible in this area. We know very well that in financial matters there or there this is often the case with our suffering. This isn't good for you! In any case, it is our job to point this out. On the remaining applications: Flight ban zone, Greens' request. – Too bad if this does not find a majority here because of inconsistencies in the government. The opposition in Libya would, of course, be able to do this well or very welcome for two reasons: Firstly, because air attacks by the forces of Gaddafis would no longer be as easy as possible, and above all because no mercenaries could be flown over the limit of the air. - You've clearly named it. From our point of view, this would be a useful military police measure. Last point: With a four-line response to the situation in Iran, the foreign policy from Schüssel to Großruck in your group has come a long way. I'm just telling you one thing about Iran. [[Abg. Großruck: I've never been to Iran!]] – You yourself have made a request, which we also support for the reason that opposition members are arrested away from the house arrest. [[Abg. Grossruck: Yes, but I've never been there!]] All of this does not mean anything good, and it will also be exciting how to face the regime there. But with the Nabucco project and similar more, you do the same thing again: You explain to us day after day under Putin's energy independence, that you want to switch to Ahmadinejad – that's your project! Austrian millions are already going to flow in there again. [[Abg. Grandruck: Azerbaijan!]] “Nabucco” will only return if the gas fields in Iran are also opened. That is what hypocrisy is! And that's what you have to stand for. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Wrong! Azerbaijan!]] – Azerbaijan is the first branch, but it also needs Iran, so that the whole thing is economically acceptable. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Completely wrong!]] Get in touch! Ask colleagues Bartenstein! He's sitting next to you. He knows that very well. This is your hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12537	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12558	Mr President. Federal Minister! In summary, in this debate: I believe that the fundamental question must not and should not be the question of who has shaken the hand – or even not – but the fundamental question, and it has failed to me in this debate, should it actually be said how to deal with such regimes as democracy? [[Call: So it is]] Do you choose the path of isolation, damnation, or do you choose the way of dialogue to create semi-democratic conditions in the medium term? . We from the BZÖ confess that we want to go the way of dialogue, because I say it's preferable, someone is once too often in a desert tent; as it falls bombs on the people of a country, whether it's Libya, Egypt or Iraq, as part of a battle effort. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because I'm in Iraq right now. Iraq is the best warning example of how much it can go wrong if one refuses the dialogue and tries an alleged liberation in the context of fighting. Let's look into Iraq today! The truth is that today there are more terrorist attacks, more dead and more injured in Iraq than ever before. This is the result of US fighting, and this should actually be a warning example for us to have to go the way of dialogue in Libya and not to support any combat effort, controlled by the Americans, ladies and gentlemen. As we are currently in Iraq, and if I refer to Mr Pilz's comments with these EUR 45 million, I would like to mention it. – I can still remember that as the “profile” on 15 May. August 2010 reported: Ha, now we have a witness! Ladies and gentlemen, it has been reported page by page, a witness acts. €45 million were flown from Saddam Hussein from Iraq to Jörg Haider in Carinthia. Today it is 45 Gaddafi millions from Libya. Well, you have to explain to me once: Are they now coming from Hussein or are they coming from Gaddafi? I'll give you the answer: Neither Hussein nor Gaddafi have flown 45 million € somewhere, but – and we will still discover that – the only person who has proved to have received money from Gaddafi personally – over 50 000 €, ladies and gentlemen is Mr. Edlinger from the SPÖ environment, the brother of former Minister of Finance Rudolf Edlinger of SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Aha, SPÖ! SPÖ!]] [[further calls to the BZÖ]] He got money from Gaddafi and no one else. This applies to clarifying – I am happy to make my contribution to this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. – If we discuss money flows, I would also like to ask the following question: Are we going to explain what red and black banks this, according to the Governor of the National Bank, is above €1 billion of the Gaddafi clan? [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Where is this over € 1 billion bunked? At the ODP's Raiffeisen Group or at the SPÖ's Bank-Austria? – I would like to have answered this question before discussing nonexistent €45 million from Jörg Haider, ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say the following: We from the BZÖ acknowledge that we want and need to go the way of dialogue. And we also say – and we are so honest to say – that it is a mistake to believe that we can transplant our Western, democratic standards from today to tomorrow into a North African or Islamic state. This has been tried countless times – most recently in Iraq – and it has failed all the time. So in the case of Libya, we're going another, a better way to help people live better.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12629	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. In accordance with the agreement of the members of the Presidential Conference, I put to the vote the requests made during the debate on this item 1 until after the vote on item 2 of the agenda. [[12:40:34]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 40, 47, 49 to 53, 55, 59 and 65 as well as the Citizens' Initiative No. 22 (1046 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12662	I'm calling the 2nd. Agenda item. Mrs Winter. I'm going to ring 30 after 3 minutes, then there's still time for a final set, so everyone gets in the television time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12695	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can return here to the political downfalls of our Austrian Republic. This is actually not difficult for me, because there is also enough explosives in these downfalls, especially if SPÖ and ÖVP continue to rule as they have done up to date. I should like to remind you, Mr Cap, that: Today, in the morning, they very much praised the efforts of democracy in the war-leading countries. May I ask you to ensure a little more democracy in Austria, in particular in our Committee on Petitions, because there is also a power relationship, one in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP – and very much to the disfavor of all those citizens who want to address their requests, which have dealt with their criticisms in the form of petitions and citizens' initiatives. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, you see that you are really in an audience democracy. You may look, but your petitions and your citizens' initiatives are done with a first-class funeral, and this funeral is called: To take note! In the current period of law we had 75 petitions, of which ten were assigned. We had 27 citizens' initiatives, six of which were allocated to different committees. You probably do not know, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a Committee on Petitions – the arguments are not replacing the arguments, Mr Cot! – because reports of this Committee on Petitions have never been allowed to be dealt with in Parliament at the time of the day, where it was possible for you to listen and experience what is happening to your concerns. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Already today!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I must say that the content of these citizens' initiatives and petitions is of great importance. There is, for example, a citizens' initiative that opposes the partial privatisation of the federal real estate company. For the explanation only briefly: This is the largest real estate owner in Austria with 3 000 buildings. There are all schools, kindergartens, court buildings and, and below. This society is to be partially privatized, i.e.: Austrian wealth is to be silvered. What this leads to is seen in Graz, and in particular the ÖVP has been addressed: Graz is the city with the biggest debts, and it was also traded in this way, with the result that, apart from the castle mountain – and it is privately owned – nothing actually belongs to the citizens of Graz. There are also petitions brought by our FPÖ members. These are small things, but they are of enormous importance. This is about the closures of micro-schools, which is about the receipt of post offices and much more. A very important citizens' initiative would be to mention those of members of the health and nursing professions. They want their own care room. They want a competent, legally legitimate, professionally oriented representation. And there is, I have to say, the opinion of the ministry is really marked by irony when it says: There are already the Chambers of Workers, and if you work as a reported worker in this profession, you are represented by them as well. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Then I'll ask myself, If you are acting in this way for large chambers, why is it not possible to put together all the local health telephones? [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] That would be the reverse! And that would certainly be very important.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12763	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12784	Mr President. Appreciate spectators on TV screens! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Winter, I think it is positive that today the report of the Committee on Petitions will be debated at least in a more prominent position than in plenary, even though it is only a few speakers who will be on television. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the European Parliament.]] The current collection report again reveals a wide range of different topics, and with a large number of supporters, the Committee is increasingly concerned about the involvement of imitators and additional experts. And so, in the last committee in January, on the occasion of the “Children do not belong to prison” petition, a hearing of NGOs and government representatives has been held. This petition was based on the initiative of more than 100,000 people and 75 organisations – a strong sign of the civilian population. And it is also planned in the future that information will be invited to committee meetings. We thus receive first-hand information and also give the topics the appropriate priority. The essential thing is – and you are perfectly right – that the possibility of petitions and citizens’ initiatives in the population needs to be made known much more. It is still true that many are not aware that they have this possibility of direct political participation. But also the information to the citizens about what happened to their concerns or what happened to them is much better mediated. As a result, I think it is also important that we continue to work to make the independent direct way to Parliament through an e-petition. A step in this direction is also taken by closer cooperation with the lawyers. Cooperation between them and the Committee on Petitions was started at a first date last autumn. One way could be to draw on opinions from the People's Procuratorate on individual petitions and citizens' initiatives. But it was also discussed the possibility of initiating a change of law with complaints from the People's Procuratorate on the way to a petition. I would like to take a closer look at petitions 40 and 47 – No to the BIG partial privatisation – from the twelve very different petitions and citizen initiatives in this report. Unfortunately, from economic and also from ÖVP travels, the question here is again and again about privatization of state participations. Many public buildings, such as schools, district courts, police services, are currently in public hands 100 percent. The request for the petition, which comes from the state of Salzburg, is to keep the Federal Property Company as the owner of more than 3,000 buildings, as the largest property owner of Austria, and also the aforementioned properties in public hands. As has been said, numerous communities in the state of Salzburg and also from my constituencies have signed this petition. You do in case of a part privatization of the danger of the decommissioning of important authorities and jobs as a possible consequence. Petitions bring important issues directly from the population and the communities to Parliament. I would like to thank all the political groups for their constructive cooperation, and I am looking forward to the joint development of petition law in the interests of our citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12842	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12863	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The present report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is a very important instrument and will finally be discussed prominently, at a time in Parliament, where the audiences of the debate can also follow. Finally, it concerns the direct access of citizens to legislation. It is about direct democracy, about possibilities of direct democratic instruments. At this point it is said: In today's debates, it can only be more about involving citizens better than before. It is urgently necessary to take reform steps here, because the concrete issues that exist – whether in social policy Whether it is in environmental matters or also in human rights, it requires more and no less citizen participation. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] This concerns not only the federal level, but also local levels, but also, of course, the European dimension. On this occasion it was recalled that the European Citizens' Initiative was adopted in December 2010 and it is now up to the national states, it is now up to Austria, the Federal Government, to define the formal criteria as soon as possible, so that a European Citizens' Initiative law will also be possible by January 2012. The present report contains ten petitions and one citizens' initiative. The honourable Members have already mentioned it: We are very critical of the way we have worked. We believe that it is urgently necessary here to enforce new changes in the Rules of Procedure and to decide together. We have – and I would like to say this positively – visited the German Bundestag and looked at how the online petitions are being done in the German Bundestag. Excellent, ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, we could only wish that citizens also receive this opportunity to bring their petitions online directly to Parliament. We have already implemented two hearings. We had two hearings: one on the subject of “new school ” and one on the subject of“ children do not belong to prison. ” It was excellent to discuss with the experts and to feel the participation of the people there and the enormous political effort of these organisations to give themselves a hearing. We want and need to expand this. And now I am explaining why we cannot accept this report. The practice at present looks like simply taking note of these reports, ladies and gentlemen. Noticing! They are not assigned to the committees, where the experts could then discuss it further – no, they are taken note of, voted on here, and then They're away from the agenda. This is simply not democratic enough, because it would have to continue to be dealt with in Parliament. I take only one example: the petition, which is being taken note of today, concerning the prohibition of imports of genetically modified feed. There is a single opinion on this, where the Minister for Consumer Protection says he is not responsible at all, but the Minister for Agriculture. We have therefore requested that this petition be passed on to the Committee on Agriculture and that it be dealt with there. But no, you of SPÖ and ÖVP only take note. We're sorry. In conclusion, I would like to briefly present our demand catalogue: We want to strengthen the involvement of the People's Procuratorate, we also want minority rights on this issue. And, ladies and gentlemen, today you still have the opportunity to give your consent to the Euratom People's Desire at 3 p.m. The Greens have submitted a request for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12924	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12946	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and on the screens! I am glad that you are involved in this debate, because it is your concern, it is your concern. How can you talk more about politics, how can you apply your wishes to politicians? – A top-notch question. [[Abg. New builder: Not at the moment!]] Every day we encounter reports of popular desire and public opinion, but there are other, easier ways of forming society, namely petitions and citizens' initiatives. In short: For a petition you only need the support of a Member, for a citizens' initiative 500 signatures. Citizens' participation. How important is our citizens' participation? It is a very good thing in our democracy, more and more people want and should speak in politics. But that does not mean that politicians would be less demanded. We politicians are elected to make decisions, we politicians are elected to create solutions. That's our job, and that's what we want to do. More specifically, the Committee on Petitions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How's work? You've already got some insights here. Mr Pirklhuber, we are always open to ideas, we are always open to constructive cooperation. The fact is that the Committee has achieved significant improvements in recent months: There is a better cooperation with the Volksanwälten. Those affected as well as experts are invited to the Committee. The example has already been mentioned: On the topic of children in Schubhaft, the Committee has also heard representatives of NGOs. In a short time, representatives of three citizens' initiatives will present their wishes, namely Aug in Aug with Members – not as it so often says: The ones up there are removed! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But it must have consequences, colleague!]] Consequences, yes, you say so, Mr Pirklhuber! The key question remains: What are the chances of success for petitions and citizens' initiatives? [[Call the FPÖ:Null! Zero!]] Very different. Some people can be implemented 1 : 1, some are not; others are often opposed to other citizens' interests. Some have better chances of implementation. Current example: A petition has called for the introduction of the roadway on motorways, and as it now looks, it will soon be available. Further example: A petition called for the reform of pension funds. It was taken note of, as you said earlier in beautiful German office. But that doesn't mean that we're not further committed to it. [[Abg. New builder: Nothing happened for two years, Mrs Colleague!]] We insist that we continue to fight fully for a reform of pension funds! [[Abg. Singer: drawerized!]] Dear viewers and guests at the gallery! You see, it makes sense to get involved. I'd like to invite you to that. Take this opportunity in democracy! In the media, “the citizens of scurvy ” are often the ones who express their displeasure. We in Austria do not need any angry citizens. We need active, committed citizens for a living democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13062	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13083	Mr President. High house! If the government is asleep or if the government is fighting, the problems will not be solved, and then the time of direct democracy is the time for citizens to speak and participate directly. This is important and this is necessary, especially at this time, where it is visible daily. I quote a statement from an opinion researcher who said: “We are at a time when confidence in politics and its solution skills are falling. This fact causes people to feel that it is good to decide.” Yes, this participation is quite, very important, only the citizen must also feel: If I agree, I can also do something, develop something in a positive sense and change something. And I believe that the more citizens appear, the more they support initiatives, the less the government can afford to make something disappear in the drawer. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore invite all citizens to make more use of this right at this point, even as the Committee on Petitions, because it is ultimately a fundamental right of the citizen – which unfortunately is not known to many of God – because they can influence politics and also influence the social life as a whole. I would also like to thank all the citizens who have so far used this right of petition, but also all the associations that have a problem and are interested in solutions, as well as the communities that send petitions to us, and the many over-party citizens' initiatives, which show their commitment and commitment on a daily basis, in order to bring about change. [[We welcome the BZÖ as well as the SPÖ and Green MEPs.]] It is indeed, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely interesting topics – not only in what is on the agenda today as a collective report – and I am grasping some very interesting issues of the past and also of the future: School, school democracy or the topic of dual citizenship. Last week, a delegation from Tyrol was with me as the chairman of the Committee on Petitions and presented me with 20 000 signatures: the possibility of double citizenship for South Tyroleans. Or: the care allowance, which has never been valorised, but has been shortened. Or: Reductions in family benefits; there is a strong initiative here. Or: Transport and transport Weltproblems. Or what has already been mentioned: the petition “Children Do Not Belong to Prison. ” In my opinion, these are also a mood picture – this variety of initiatives – which shows how good laws work or do not work, and they show above all where there is a need for action. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, and above all the spectators at home! As a woman of this committee – and I agree with my members here – I would like to say that we understand ourselves as a service provider to the citizens. We understand ourselves as a parliamentary platform where people listen, take problems seriously, and try to bring solutions – and here I am at the jumping point, at the solutions. Since, ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need for action regarding reforms, otherwise we will give the citizens a false picture, namely that we can solve a lot of things. However, if we do not, this is not correct, and from my point of view, reforms are absolutely necessary in order to make access more transparent and civilised and to reduce obstacles – the introduction of citizens' initiatives by electronic means has already been tailored. More consultation is also important for those who are concerned. We have, I think, taken a first good step with some hearings, but that cannot be the end. I would also like to hear a lot more ministers, who have to be really familiar with the problems and who are not constantly going to deliver written opinions that leave the room for interpretations as open as possible. Above all, we want to consider – and this is my concern – whether it is necessary to always need a Member as someone who can bring in a petition. It should be made possible for the citizen to approach us directly. Why do we not simply delete this regulation? [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] In addition, and Mr Pirklhuber has already done it, we need more treatment of the problems in the committees. It cannot be in this committee, in particular, that we fall into the old role model, as in the other committees, because the coalition and there the opposition, and then we vote in agreement. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] The citizen doesn't understand that. If we are truly service providers to the citizen, then it must be about the matter, then there must also be voting possibilities and voting behaviour across party borders. I am also particularly concerned with increased documentation, increased public relations to the outside. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, We have a good working environment in this committee. We will also have a meeting tomorrow to continue planning and organising the next steps together. But I also, in principle, invite all those who are not represented in this committee to take part in the fact that we can make formal changes quickly, that citizens' desires are really taken seriously and that we are really strengthening direct democracy with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13185	The next speaker was Mr Neubauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13208	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Last week we experienced a sad day of political culture in this House, as one rarely has to experience it before. I am referring to an initiative from South Tyrol that has made the effort to collect 22,000 signatures for a citizens' initiative, in cooperation with voluntary helpers from Austria, from Vorarlberg to Burgenland, which favours the dual citizenship of the South Tyroleans and the people living there. The fact that has really been raised is that these 22,000 people have been beaten by the over-party President Prammer's door to the nose, have not been received and the signatures have not been accepted from it. [[Call the ÖVP:Na!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an absolute scandal in a citizens' initiative of this kind! This cannot be allowed to sit on us, since in a presidential a serious word has to be spoken. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, this president has also given the initiators of this initiative false legal information. She told them – and this is stated in writing in this letter – that they may contact the representatives of the South Tyrol Subcommittee to give their 22,000 votes there – not even knowing that the Rules of Procedure do not provide for this at all, but that they are to be cast in the Parliamentary Directorate, and from there they have to be forwarded to the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] It has therefore also provided people with false information in terms of content and I must say quite honestly: This has only caused headaches and misunderstandings for the initiators. As long as this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives comes to a mere squat, ladies and gentlemen, and the rights and interests of the citizens of Austria are thus trampled on, this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has not deserved the name it is currently wearing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Between calls at the SPÖ and the Abg. Haubner.]] The Freedom Party will therefore, with direct-democratic initiatives, counteract this inaction of the Federal Government and this incompetent behaviour of the President, by supporting in the future our decided direct-democratic initiatives in order to be able to exclude such an approach in the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13305	Mr Neubauer, you know that the concept or comparison of Parliament, or also of a committee of Parliament, is pre-taxed with the term "quatschbude" and is always thought of as a matter of order. [[Call the SPÖ:But pretty!]] I also give you a call for order for the use of this expression in comparison to an institution of Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl as well as intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13343	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am actually sorry that the Members and colleagues from the Freedom Party have been able to discuss this debate today, where we have for the first time been able to discuss the report of the Committee on Petitions during the television broadcast time, and even now, in the speech by Mr Neubauer, we cannot preserve the usual style of discussion, the way in which we can deal with it and scandalize everything – with the term “quatschbude” or, as you have done, Mrs Winter, by comparing the Committee on Petitions with a huge funeral. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Mrs Winter? What did she say? Didn't you listen?]] I am very sorry because all the other contributions were very constructive and we also work together on improvements in the Committee on Petitions. Only: This does not help, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. [[Abg. New builder: You don't do anything!]] We're doing something very well! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wenninger.]] It has changed a lot in recent months, and it has already been mentioned today, in the Committee on Citizens' Initiatives and Petitions. We are taking the concerns of citizens very seriously. [[Call to the FPÖ:Government... in winter sleep!]] Mr Neubauer, you know just as well as we all know that there has been a hearing that there has been a hearing in the last Committee on Petitions that there has been a decision that three further hearings will be carried out – on three very important petitions and citizens' initiatives, starting with the valorization of the care allowance to “for more distribution justice”, and also on the citizens’ initiative “SOS family” we will hold a hearing. I think these are all improvements that have been made in recent months and that we all together show that people's concerns are very important to us! [[Complementary of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The Committee on Petitions, ladies and gentlemen, which has been said a few times today, is the committee where citizens can express their concerns directly and where Members or ministers can deliver opinions. Recently, more and more expert opinions have also been gathered, because it is important to us that we take these concerns seriously and treat them properly, as already mentioned. Especially in the case of the petition, which has also been raised, namely, “KINDER does NOT belong to the EMPLOYMENT”, I think the hearing was very good in the last committee and has also led to an opinion from the Children's and Youth Prosecutors' Office being sought. I believe that this is also a success that we can see together simply if we only once allow the view to be taken in the direction that not all that comes from the government parties must be automatically bad. Nor is it, Mr Pirklhuber, that any petitions dealt with in the collective report have taken place. I would like to remind you that we have had a petition concerning signal and assistance dogs, which has been taken note of very well and then has led to a five-party request here in Parliament. So a collective report does not automatically mean that the petitions and citizens' initiatives will then be forgotten, and I think that we should continue to work together in this direction, because I really have the impression in the Committee that it is important to all of us, no matter which group, that these concerns of the people are taken seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13428	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13449	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! In the last Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, we once again had a wide range of petitions and citizens' initiatives on the agenda. So you can see: There are still a lot of dedicated citizens in this country, which I think is very positive, and we are delighted, I believe, about every suggestion that comes to us in the house. Even if one can sometimes differ in content, I think it is worth discussing all petitions and citizens' initiatives. I do not think it is enough for this discussion to take place. I would like to explain this by an example of a petition that we had last time. This is the petition ‘FLOW-full life’, where some NGOs, environmental organisations are concerned with protecting certain floodwaters in Austria, so that it is not possible to build hydroelectric power plants or other things in any floodwaters, but for example to protect very sensitive nature reserves from them. Unfortunately, this petition was only taken note of and not brought to the Committee on the Environment. As President of the Committee on the Environment, I was very sorry because we discussed this issue there at the last meeting and actually contradicted the opinion of the Minister for Agriculture of the Petitions. I think it would have been a very important suggestion for the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection if we had had the opinion of many citizens in the committee and could have discussed them there. It is my appeal to the government groups not to distinguish from whom a petition comes – whether it comes from a member of the opposition or from a member of the government – but to give all citizens the opportunity to actually bring their concerns into a committee. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies of Ursula Haubner, Mag. Aubauer, Dr. Cap and Mag. Worm.]] We should be happy when people come to us with their suggestions – especially when they are young people. I was recently, only last week, with young people at the President's office, we were very warmly welcomed there. There was a ban on plastic sacks, for which tens of thousands of people have committed themselves to engaging in youth. I would now like to make an appeal to colleagues – we will have this on the agenda in the next Committee on Petitions –: The ban on plastic sacks is an important symbol of environmental policy in Austria, with which it unfortunately is not the best. My appeal to you: Let us also take this commitment of young people seriously to make a little progress and, above all, to maintain their commitment to environmental policy in particular, but above all, their political interest. What I see critically is the petition's instrument in general, as it is now applied – the Haubner Obfrau has already mentioned it. It is a bit worrying, in fact, if I have to go as a citizen first of all to a Member, to a Member in order to be able to send a petition to Parliament. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] I don't understand that at eye level. As a Member of Parliament, I think I can make a request at any time if I want to deal with a subject here. I also do not want to go the detour over a petition to say: I'll sit down anyway! – but as a Member of Parliament, I never have to vote on it. As a Member of Parliament or a Member of Parliament, you can make an application at any time. Citizens should have the opportunity to know a Member without having to ask someone, to make petitions and to put their concerns right here. Therefore: Yes, we should necessarily make these instruments known, even though they are still worthy of improvement, and motivate many people to get involved, but then above all take their concerns seriously – whether you are of the same opinion or not – and treat them seriously, because I think something else is also counterproductive, so that people no longer make the effort. I thank all those who have ever made a petition or a citizens' initiative for their suggestions, and I hope that many more will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13501	The next speaker is Mrs Hellerer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13522	Mr President. High house! I too would like to be very close to the expression of Mr Neubauer, who referred to the Committee on Petitions as the "quatschbude", because he is not only harming the Committee, but also all its members. We are working on the efficiency of this committee. Petitions and citizens' initiatives have tradition in this House, and citizens' commitment is also in the trend of time. An increase in the number of initiatives can also be seen in our Committee. Today, the collective report contains ten petitions and a citizens' initiative. I would also like to say positively that citizens are increasingly dealing with the issues in terms of content, i.e. that they can also acquire expertise and give special expression to their concern. Topics that are discussed intensively politically, which move the people, who come to us in Parliament, are brought to politics by means of citizens' initiatives and petitions – as well as the petition “KINDER NOT belong to the FUNCTION”, which we could undergo in a hearing, thus also helping it to have a special value. However, petitions are often also articulated on very punctual topics, I am thinking of the petition for the preservation of the folk school Eggendorf im Walde, which is a micro-school in Lower Austria. [[Call the FPÖ:Eggendorf im Thale!]] The dreaded closure behind this petition could not be confirmed in any way, quite the contrary, the school will of course remain. In the Committee we have two petitions, namely petitions No. 40 and 47. Both concerned the rejection of a BIG (partly) privatisation, and we have also used the Committee's possibilities intensively and not only requested the relevant ministries, but also requested an opinion directly from the BIG. In all the opinions, we were able to read unisono that there is no privatisation, and thus these petitions are also included in the collective report today. Also the petition No. 59 “Stop the container-wild growth at APS school sites” and the petition No. 52 “Stop the renovations of the Augarten”, where, of course, the city of Vienna is particularly affected, will continue to deal with politics, but of course they will also have to focus on the state of Vienna. I believe that the holding of hearings and hearings – as we have done several times in this committee in order to give a special petition, a special issue, a priority – is very important. It is also important to explain some topics in terms of content. This active discussion with petitioners and experts is also part of this committee, which I am in favour of. We can thus also beat two flies with a blinder – if I may put it very salopp – because it is possible, first of all, to have certain citizens' concerns with a special meaning, and secondly, that national claim that policies are being countered by the citizens. In the light of this, of course, interesting citizens' initiatives are a special possibility of upgrading, and this can also be a somewhat toothless instrument which the citizens' initiatives become an important instrument of political culture. I welcome the plan to work together to improve the efficiency of the Committee. I'm looking forward to tomorrow's date. I have already heard a lot about what could be changed, and we will work very intensively to make this committee known to the public, because, in the sense of Max Frisch, democracy also means interfering in its own affairs.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13556	The next speaker was Mr Jury. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13577	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is already very significant – if you listen to the speakers of these government parties – with what threateningness policy is being made here. It is not just that we have a stop in the field of health reform, it is not just that we are in education reform, it is not just that we have a standstill in the administrative reform and in a new defence doctrine, it is even so far now that we are putting an end to the petitions and citizens' initiatives, in this instrument of direct democracy, here, in an instrument that is good and good for ourselves. It's a shame, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, on the altar of this standstill of our Federal Government and of our government parties, these interests of our citizens are sacrificed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we look at today's presentation with the ten petitions and a citizens' initiative, we see that ten points are taken into consideration. That is, ten points, ladies and gentlemen, are being disposed of. This is a shame to parliamentarianism, which is a shame to the House of Lords, and I am here with Members of the new builder who called this House a "bude". Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Among these ten petitions and citizens' initiatives, which are taken into account, is only one which is allocated to the Transport Committee. This is a good initiative by Mayor Rädler, who is concerned with the roadway of the motorways, so that citizens can be saved more efficiently if they are involved in accidents; and secondly, it is also about the safety of the forces of the volunteer firearms. In this sense: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I hear the words well, I alone lack the belief that you want to be there for the citizens in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13623	The next speaker was Mr Huber. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13644	Mr President. High house! The result of the Committee on Petitions is that we are taking note of the petitions today. I would like to draw particular attention to a petition, first because I was the first signatory, and second, because I consider the ban on importing genetically modified feed to be very, very important, since we know today that this is a problem. [[Abg. Hörl: What will that be?]] There are also numerous scientific studies that show that the risks of genetic engineering are real for humans, but also for nature. And what does our Federal Government do? – It puts the interests of the population, the safety of food simply behind the interests of the large corporations! We will be there, the whole population will be made experimental rabbits of multinational chemical companies. I don't know if that's right. One is what one eats – but the people in our country can no longer choose it! Whether they cremate their hands, whether they care for the face, it is almost everything, to 95 percent, shifted with a genetically engineered, modified product, the lecithin obtained from gene soya. That's inside, that's exactly what makes it matter that a cream smells beautifully, which is originally a gray palm oil; with the addition of the lecithin it becomes a beautiful white cream. One thing you have to keep in mind: The skin absorbs this one to one, and it goes right into our body. So it's no wonder that we have a lot of allergies today that the children already have strong allergies. There are x studies, these studies are shubbled, they are trampled with feet only to support the genetic engineering companies instead of the population! The whole thing started with the analog cheese, with the shape ham, with the cloning meat. A correct increase in horrors and horrors is done by genetic engineering. No matter what it is, all the e-dusts or the vitamin preparations, they are produced for the most part today. With this petition, Austria has had a real chance – if the Federal Government had the courage to give this petition to the Committee on Agriculture and let it decide there – to become a fine food shop for Europe. We'd be a pioneer, we'd really be a pioneer. We cannot answer our people, I believe, what we are giving people to eat! Again: 600,000 tonnes of Austria are imported annually. This is fed to our farm animals and breeding animals and then over meat comes one to one on the plate of the consumer. Now, big corporations are saying: No, that's not so bad, because all the toxic poisons that are inside are mined in the stomach of the animals. – Unfortunately, that is not true! This is a serious error and, on the other hand, it must be fought in a massive way. I wish, in the sense of the thousands of people who signed this petition, that we really take it seriously and that this does not fall asleep with the attention. As long as I'm inside, I'll do everything we can to be energetic about this genetic engineering.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13679	The next speaker was Mr Vock. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13702	High house! As a member of the Committee on Petitions, I am pleased that we started the debate today for the first time during the television season. This shows a small appreciation of the Committee on Petitions. Unfortunately, the rest of the debate slides into the lunch break of many Members, and then again we do not have the presence we want. We are now in fact back to the middle-night discussions, which hardly any Member of Parliament listens to. [[Abg. Scheibner: I came extra for you!]] That is to say, one might still wish that this committee should be further upgraded and implemented. It's also interesting: In fact, the Committee on Petitions should be a citizen's right to pass on something here to the state, to the government, to Parliament. But obviously it is also an instrument for Members to prevail towards their own government or to be able to express their wishes here. This is reflected in petitions 40 and 47 for BIG partial privatisation, where three SPÖ members are afraid that they cannot enforce their own government, and we have to play a little soul caretaker in the Committee on Petitions. It is also interesting that precisely these two petitions show the topic of BIG partial privatisation. They point out how uncoordinated our government is and works against each other. ÖVP and SPÖ sit in a boat, but this obviously moves in different directions, or one tries to control it in different directions. There it is on 30. In September 2009, Federal Minister Mitterlehner had a partial privatisation examined. As has already been said, the three representatives of the SPÖ fear – I understand – that the family silver will be thrown away and bring in a petition. In the building committee, the competent committee, Federal Minister Mitterlehner stated on 25 July. November that the partial privatisation of the BIG is not at all for discussion; he does not know why there are petitions, and so on – although the exam is running parallel! In February 2010, half a year later, the same Federal Minister suddenly no longer excludes privatisation and explains in his opinion: The ownership conditions are independent of the requirements of the Federal Services. Mr Hellerer, if you say that several comments have been requested here: It was always only Federal Minister Mitterlehner who gave opinions. All the others we requested have declared themselves unisono unresponsible, including the BIG itself. So if we say here that there have been several requests anyway, then I must say that you have not even read the opinions, because the opinions are unisono inside: not responsible. ==References== Feber Federal Minister Mitterlehner published the study by Ernst & Young, after which €1.5 billion of family silver is possible. ==References== On 3 March, the three delegates brought this petition against their own government, with the support of a few communities from Salzburg. One can clearly see here the search for the help of the SPÖ delegates. We will beat ourselves to your side, dear SPÖ Members, but you will have to stand for your own petition here, too, when it comes to the vote in Parliament! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Tadler.]] There was another opinion in which the Minister said suddenly: As a result of the exchange climate, partial privatisation has not yet been pursued. – That is to say, there is very much the initiative of the Minister that goes towards partial privatisation of the BIG. The result of the two petitions is: The ÖVP wants to privatize at all costs, the SPÖ does not want this, at least not the three Members. Instead of discussing the two positions in the Building Committee, which would be responsible, decent and reasonable, the disunity of the government will end with this collective report today!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13745	The next speaker was Mr Hechtl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13766	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! If today the collective report is in the plenary session, it is an expression of how important and serious we are to take the citizens' initiatives and petitions of this committee. Unfortunately, it was not possible for us to present to the public the work of this committee as a whole, but the previous agenda items unfortunately took us away. However, it is a success that part of the work of this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiative can now be brought closer to the public. However, this collective report also shows clearly how different the tasks assigned to this committee are, how they are dealt with, and how the National Council then deals with them. Citizens' initiatives and petitions allow both the people and the people's representatives to respond to specific concerns and needs, and often show details and cases of hardness in the wide range of legislation. The fact that this is not always complete clearly shows this. I would also like to draw attention to the positive work done by this committee, and in this context I would also like to highlight the positive work and the cooperation with the People's Procuratorate, which is always with us with their experience, highlights important aspects and points to legal needs. Among the major issues that the report deals with, I would like to refer – and this has already been mentioned – only to the petition 65, the introduction of the rescue alley. Here the concerns and suggestions of the operational organizations rescue, volunteer fire brigade et cetera were received and then treated in this petition. As far as we can say today, the introduction of a rescuing road is the right way, and it is in foreseeable time, I think, perhaps to expect parliamentary treatment. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate High House! This committee is and remains an important source of speech for the elements of direct democracy. The abundance of the citizens' initiatives and petitions makes this clear, and we are not going to let anyone talk about this committee in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13803	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13825	Mr President. High house! Yes, direct democracy is desirable, is important and should also be lived in this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. But, as you have already noted, everyone has promised this in television time and found beautiful words, but unfortunately it is not God's true living in this committee. This is being criticized by us. Col. Hellerer! This is also significant: This is the smallest school in the Eggendorf folk school in the Thale and not, as you said, Eggendorf in the forest. It is not bad, I give you absolutely right, but you actually see how much you are dealing with the citizens' initiatives and petitions here and that apples are then confused with pears. [[Abg. Hellererer: I've been working on it in depth!]] I also provide you with the fact that this has fallen a little during the television period with the follow-up speakers, the naked numbers of my colleague Winter, who have already been very, very significant. If you take the last three sessions: 17 notices and an allocation to the petitions; six notices and no allocations in the citizens' initiatives! So you see here where the path actually leads. If this is the case with direct democracy, with the participation of the citizen and the citizen here, I believe that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is in danger of ad absurdity if we do not get any allocations here. That is exactly what the citizens outside of us expect, that we are here in Parliament and in the committees to deal intensively with it. There, of course, allocations in the committees would be absolutely important and indispensable. They know exactly what knowledge in political reality means: It's actually more or less a to-grave trage. Of course, it's a good thing, but you don't want to deal with it any further. It is probably also feared in the committees that the whole could still be played up in the media and perhaps offer the citizen – as it would be important and thought – a stronger voice tube. It is quite clear that thousands of dedicated citizens are being collected in the citizens' initiatives, and unfortunately, a knowledge of God is not enough and not enough. This has simply not deserved the dedicated political citizen outside how to deal with it. You have to take it as it is called here: in the Recycle Bin, rubbed and, and, nothing else is a note. We have to go away from this one! You really have to deal with direct democracy better, you have to deal with it more honestly. You really have to live this in committee instead of just saying good words here during the television season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13861	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13883	Mr President. High house! As a people's representative, one naturally has to take a look at the whole of Austria. But if you are allowed to be a regional member, as I am, then you also have to look at what is important to voters on the spot. The problems that arise on the ground are not only taken with us, but it is also important to bring in and discuss them. I think the Committee on Petitions is a good instrument. Some things have already been brought in. The petitions or citizens' initiatives, which are discussed in the Committee's recent collection report, have already been prepared by colleagues. I would therefore like, even if these petitions are not included in the above collective report, because these petitions are still being received by the Ministries, to two petitions by my colleague Mr Fritz Grillitsch, or to those concerning the Styria, in particular the Obersteiermark. In this case, it is specifically about the extension of the S 36, the Murtal-Schnellstraße. These petitions are also about the needs of people on the ground, as I mentioned earlier, those people who have elected us as their representatives here to the Parliament, because they too are to be implemented very importantly. On the one hand, the expansion of the S 36 has a gap line towards the south – a step that is also very important for economic policy. This also results in the sustainable protection of regional jobs. The competitiveness of the region will be strengthened, but also transport safety. The preparatory work has been done or is in progress that there will be no other way than to expand this road, including for the commuters and also in the sense of transport relief. Summary: It is necessary and has been requested to obtain the opinion of the Minister for Transport and the ASFINAG. I hope that these statements will soon come in – how do they say literally? – support the Upper Steermark here, the people who live there, and finally light becomes visible at the end of the tunnel.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13925	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13946	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the balcony! I do not know how Members of this House deal with their petitions and citizens' initiatives. I can only say it to my group and to myself as a person: ‘Knowledge’ is not ‘Filed’; Notice means that I take along parts to discuss them further. I can only say that for our group. If others say about taking note, I put it down, that's history for me, then they should do it that way. I believe that we also take along what direct democracy brings and try to reintegrate it again and again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Only one!]] Mr Pirklhuber, I believe – and this is something we discussed at the beginning of this period – that the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives should open up. The first steps are taken, so we're working on it. I think there are still a few steps to take, not a question. But it has already shown the last session that there are three new areas where we open up and also, I say now, the online opportunity should open up. That's all your opinion. I would just like to add one more point because this was raised, namely on the petition 22 on 'founding a board for health and health care professions'. I believe that the employees in the Chamber of Labour are well embedded, well represented, and that the Department of Health and Social Affairs Association is also doing a great job in the ÖGB to represent these people. Those points that have been raised here – namely registration, further training or measures, if further training is not carried out – are now poured into a legislative text. I believe that this will lead to the satisfaction of all workers in this area. We should advertise the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. We need more ideas. I am in favour of opening it up in such a way that everyone has the opportunity to bring in their ideas so that we can implement these ideas here in Parliament for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13992	I call Mr Wenninger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14013	Mr President. High house! I am already a little surprised and also amazed at the political courage of the members of the opposition who work in the Committee on Petitions. In fact, it is true that on a relatively low threshold, citizens have the opportunity to bring their political concerns – be they national or regional issues – into the Committee on Petitions. We Members then have the opportunity to discuss it intensively in committee, to obtain technical opinions and to debate the concerns in Parliament. Today, in the plenary session of the Austrian National Council, we are discussing the current collection report with numerous concerns of Austrian citizens. If the Committee's work and the plenary debate are qualified as a "quatschbude" or as a drawer, this shows to me that opposition politicians are likely to have too little political persuasion. On the other hand, just as Mr Lipitsch has formulated, I take the concerns which are politically important to me, with the plenary, to the committees, to the political work and to try to implement these content in the interests of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a brief look at the petition “Floods full of life” because our honourable Member has also been very committed to this. Austria has made a clear commitment to reducing climate-damaging emissions by increasing the establishment of renewable energy production. However, we also face the fact that we have reached a ceiling in the use of hydropower as a renewable energy: There are biotopes, rivers and streams that it is necessary to protect which are not suitable for the construction of power plants. On the other hand, in an open-minded energy discussion, it must also be made clear that there is a national consensus in Austria against the use of nuclear energy, that we are relying on energy saving measures and that, of course, we also have to engage in dialogue with citizens' initiatives if, for example, they are against the construction of local bioheating plants, against the construction of wind farms or solar parks. We will have to conduct this discourse, not only in plenary, but also in the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14047	Mr Weninger! If we've already found out or I've found that there's a ponished term, then it doesn't make things any better if you repeat it. I'm just saying that at this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: I just quoted!]] – Yes, but that’s exactly what we want to avoid being transported through the quote path of the unwanted state. I expressly say this at this point. The next speaker was Mr Preiner. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14086	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Values listeners! The fact that we are discussing the collective reports today as the second item of the agenda shows that at least petitions and citizens' initiatives are being taken very seriously by us. As a member of the Committee on Petitions, I would also like to say that I am fully committed to the term “quatschbude”, as far as the Committee on Petitions is concerned. I would now like to comment on petition 49, namely: “No for hydroelectric development in sensitive river basins – yes to safeguard the last rivers and streams close to nature in Austria!” The role of hydropower as a renewable source of energy, I think, is beyond doubt. However, in the case of further planning, the impact of power plant creations on the natural and landscape areas and biodiversity must not be disregarded. Natural parks, national parks, nature reserves and landscape protection areas should be taken into account when further expansion of hydroelectric power plants. Finally, protection areas also form an important pillar of the Austrian tourism and leisure industry because of their landscape beauty and uniqueness, and at the end of the day also an essential source of income for the people of Austria. The conservation of these nature and landscape reserves is, in any case, an essential prerequisite for our country in the future and serves as a basis for further positive tourism development. This can be read accordingly in the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment. However, it would also be desirable if this principle were to be applied to planned waste dumps or mass animal husbandries in our country. In my constituency, for example, there are two such projects which can be offered as candidates for a clear no on the part of politics in terms of protecting the environment and people: On the one hand, there is the establishment of an installation for pig mast in Lichtenwörth in the Burgenland-Dutch-Austrian border area, in the immediate vicinity of water wells, of drinking water wells. Why do I get this on the tapet now? – Quite clearly, because there is the water reservoir there for about 200 000 people from all over the North of Burgenland. Secondly, I would like to mention a resolution which has already been introduced into the Committee and forwarded to the two Ministers for the Environment and Economics for further opinions. I'm talking about the residue dump in Neudorf near Parndorf. This is a project that has been on hold for over two decades, with operators repeatedly trying to obtain an operating permit. I am proud that the citizens of this region, the municipalities and all the parties represented in the Burgenland Landtag have so far succeeded in preventing the implementation of this project. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In both cases, I think, our Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Nikolaus Berlakovich, is also called upon to act accordingly for people in the region and the environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14130	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you that Armenian Foreign Minister Edward Nalbandjan is on a short visit to Austria and welcomes the Austrian Parliament today. [[General condolences.]] Mr Minister, you see the reaction that you are welcome. I wish you a nice day here in Parliament! Mr Tadler is speaking as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14162	Mr President. High house! The genesis of the two petitions 40 and 47, Mrs Lohfeyer, seems quite familiar to me. There were two questions from Mr Tadler to the Federal Minister Mitterlehner – so I am guilty. On the first request, number 2094, of 19. May 2009 regarding the office premises of the BIG in Salzburg, I have, I must honestly say, received a very detailed, good answer. In this list the properties and objects with the corresponding addresses were acribically listed. On my second question, namely, of 21. In October 2009, concerning the planned privatisation of the BIG and the sale of BIG properties, the following was recorded in point 4 of the request by the Minister: ‘This is also the subject of the test. There are no requirements for the management of the BIG on my part; it is essential to ensure maximum transparency for any privatisation process.” Furthermore, as one colleague said, the privatisation issue in the Building Committee, where, in turn, the Minister responsible said, there were just considerations, ladies and gentlemen, to bring to the market other items that do not fall within the scope of the BIG's core business. But this too must be examined first. All in all, you have taken the right steps. It is therefore in a relatively good position, said the Minister. Of course, these petitions show a certain prophylaxis, because we know the already known consequences, for example from the BUWOG sales. There, precious family silver was scrapped on the nearly most bidder, but according to such “good experiences” – under quotation marks – with partial or full privatizations, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to be careful. That's why my appeal is: No short-term stopping of budget holes at the expense of citizens! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14205	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 1046 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[13:52:10]] Vote on agenda item 1
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14242	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled on item 1 of the agenda. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hübner, ladies and gentlemen, on revolutions in the Arab region. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pilz, ladies and gentlemen, on the flight ban zone in Libya. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Muttons, Dr. Plassnik, Mag. Korun, Scheibner, colleagues in Austria's candidate for the UN Human Rights Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. (E 145.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Cap, Dr Schüssel, colleagues on the request to the Iranian Government to release the two Iranian opposition leaders Mehdi Karroubi and Mir-Hossein Mousavi without delay. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 146.) [[13:54:11]] 3rd. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1006, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the cable car law 2003 – SeilbG 2003 (1038 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14330	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Heinzl has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14357	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Austrian cable cars transport 600 million people in the year. For comparison only: These are more than the Austrian Federal Railways and their daughter, transporting ÖBB-Postbus GmbH together in the year! The more than 3,000 cable cars and chair lifts or tow lifts in Austria are therefore a real means of mass transport. As with any transport, whether road, rail or air, safety is of course the top priority in the cable cars. This not only concerns the safety of passengers, but also the safety of operators and, above all, the safety of employees. With around 14 500 employees and 10,000 other jobs dependent on the safe and proper operation of the cable cars, especially in the winter sports areas, the around 715 cable car and tow lift companies make an important contribution to the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, High House, with the novel to be decided today on the cable car law, some important improvements are being made. Firstly, there is an improvement in the area of worker protection. They know that a new cable car in the construction permit procedure has so far had to be carried out with their own safety analysis for the protection of workers. In the future, ladies and gentlemen, these areas will be integrated into the safety analyses of the other fields such as construction, cable car technology and cetera. There is a better restriction of the protection of workers with other important areas. Secondly, and this is particularly important from my point of view, this innovation will lead to a real administrative simplification: An improved division of competences between the federal government and the countries simplifies procedures, and this, of course, also benefits operators and investors. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today's amendment to the cable car law for the industry is really improving. All of this benefits both workers and operators. I therefore hope that, as decided in the Committee, the government proposal will be adopted unanimously here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14397	The next speaker was Mr Hörl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14418	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Heinzl correctly noted, we do not change the world-moving things in this cable car law, but at least we order the head of state the chair lifts, chair lifts, combination lifts, material cable cars and tow lifts for approval and the Federal Minister of Railways, Pendelseilbahnen, Cabin cable cars and Combinbahnen. This creates more clarity. The amendment also provides for a regulatory authorisation for the size of project documents to be submitted. Furthermore, according to § 47 para. 2 – as has already been said, the main change – to accommodate the labour inspectors in the individual geology, building, cable car technology and electrical engineering plants, is missing a separate safety report for workers protection. The success of this novelle will show itself. Since this new law is now being dealt with a little late in the plenary session and on the other hand the cable car industry has already, of course, already submitted many projects, we need a deadline for the entry into force of this novelle. I therefore make the following request at second reading: [[Quoted print version removed]] The Austrian cable car industry – I also want to talk about it – is a single success story and the innovative strength in winter tourism: Austria's cable cars show 53.5 million skis days – one sixth of the carriers in the world. We ride in this area with great nations like the USA and France. I think that little Austria can be really proud of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 14 500 employees find a safe workplace in the cable car industry – Colle Heinzl has already noted it – most of it right in front of the doorstep. The impact of the cable car industry on other economic forms, however, is clear and clear from our studies that there are six times as many people working in this area, so that we have the responsibility for about 80,000 people in Austria. The Austrian cable car industry also contributes €5 million to the income of agriculture to leases, and many of our employees come from the agricultural sector because the day-to-day working time is very good for farmers. Safety in ski sports has been improved by half since 1980. The cable car industry generates a value added of over €3 billion, and we deliver more than €600 million in VAT to the Minister of Finance. We are proud of that too. Although we do not like to do so, the Minister of Finance must also have his revenue. There are 3 000 plants – you said it right, Mr Heinzl – but 500 small companies and 254 cable car companies invested €562 million last year, with sales of €1.2 billion worth a remarkable figure. This added value – and this is true of all ecology novels and greens in our country, not the green party, which has always understood it – takes place at 2% of the area of our country, while in Tyrol we have more than a quarter of the area as protected areas and many more percentages of unspoiled landscapes in our mountains. So at 2% this total economic performance takes place, and I think you can support it. Mrs. Federal Minister, we have learned to live by this cable car law. We find excellent employees in the cable car authority. The quality of the employees is right, they are very committed and experienced, the quantity is missing, and we need to talk about it. We need more employees in the cable car industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14525	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14602	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14623	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! While it is a bit ungrateful to bring the opposition to a unanimous matter as a third-party speaker, I still believe that this proposal, which can be quite exemplary, can be exemplary, for example, because from the background we have to deal with two interesting areas, tourism and safety at work, which could really be attributed to the two government parties now – but above all with the way in which the law has been dealt with and is now being adopted. On the subject of tourism and in addition to the comments made by Mr Hörl: Not only in winter, but also in summer, the cable car industry is a very productive and widespread industry. I also believe that this simplification is particularly important in the procedural way, namely the clear determination that the head of state, as is now stated in § 13 above, is very important. That is the federalism that we really imagine. Not federalism where the countries or further down then the communities extend any procedural channels and set themselves artificially in the scene. Federalism is important where I have one that is responsible for the implementation of a procedure and which must then be true for the final result. In terms of safety at work, Austria is not bad, I would say, but there are countries like Australia that have a higher level of safety at work. If we take workers' protection into the various safety analyses in this law at once, then it is correct and sensible and also a type of procedural simplification. Following the amendment tabled and the Committee's opinion that a working group will be set up at the BMVIT, we are just as behind this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14665	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14687	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! The cable car industry is a separate chapter, only I hardly know a cable car that runs profitable, so in so far public funding funds are always included in the game. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP]] All the more important, Mr Hörl, is for me that security is guaranteed, and that is why we will not raise a question of this legislative text with its amendments, whether they be introduced in the last second or not. But when it comes to safety, ladies and gentlemen, then we should also look back – the explanations make it remember – on Kaprun. And there, Mrs. Minister, your ministry has really not played a particularly good role. Just remember that the international discourse is still talking about a judicial scandal: a judicial scandal because experts were changed because virtually no travel book was found for the cable car. This would have been very likely to reveal the different framework conditions, which were ultimately also causing this devastating disaster. I think we also owe it to our tourism industry that, when disasters happen, we will really clarify as perfectly and as well as legally as possible. - So much to the past. Now to a future aspect. Mrs Minister, it is rarely possible to talk about the interests of the Transport Committee at this time – it is only after 2 p.m. – at this time. Now we have managed to get this very, very essential law for cable car safety on the agenda. But what is even more important and what is happening beyond a debate, beyond a discourse in this Parliament or in the Transport Committee, are the real issues of transport policy. Mrs Minister, why do we not at last talk about public service? Why is the report always being awakened, the report that originally had six pages, now has become a little more extensive, where, in total, the €600 million, exactly € 560 million, will be made available for public transport, where we need transparency, where we need better availability, where we must finally take the criticism of the Court of Auditors seriously? You have now concluded a new contract, Mrs. Minister. Yeah, there's a contract, but we don't know anything about it. We as parliamentarians are allowed to pay. Please, this is a premeditation of Parliament, and I am no longer allowed to offer it: constantly pump in money without being able to participate.– That would be one point we should talk about. Point two: Pumping in, not being able to participate, Framework – Framework Development Programme ÖBB, expansion programme ASFINAG. In the context of the budget debate, we can address this, but there is no decision in Parliament in favour. There are decisions in the Council of Ministers on dimensions – over dimensions that will be of massive concern to us in this House from 2015 to 2025 and beyond. This amounts to €1.5 billion in annual grants from the budget only for the new building. Don't we talk about this? No, Mrs. Minister, this is passing Parliament. It is also the issue of the equity ratio of the ÖBB: No discussion here! The discussion then takes place at a level made by Lopatka, which is really under the belt line, if the Secretary of State always says that the ÖBB need so much money, but we do not know, as I said, whether the transport policy makes sense at all. Excuse me, I have to speak in your mind. Your government partner in the form of Mr Lopatka's Secretary of State is absolutely unnecessary, and that is another flattering word.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14735	I am sorry, Mrs Moser, to interrupt you, and these are also very exciting statements, but may I ask you at least to try to make a connex for obvious matter? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14753	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, we are not talking about the essentials. I can, as it were, call any stand of the cable car industry a fishing point for transport policy, and from this point of view, I am very sure to pick up the curve on the real issues. Thank you, Mr President. The cable car industry, the cable cars are public transport, Mr President. We do not discuss the public law at all in this House. [[Abg. Rädler: What kind of law?]] The ÖPNRV Act is also a bit responsible for the cable cars. This is also about public funds. But what is really important, beyond cable car traffic, for people on the ground, for example, daily commuting traffic – I know, Mr. Hörl, tourists are more often travelling with cable cars than with buses – is simply not a subject here, but that is, please, for the people completely, very close to the ground and urgently necessary. That's why, Mrs. Minister, I'm closing now: Let's finally make more transport committee appointments! Only the range – my colleagues know it – about the dates for the Committee on Transport is reprehensible, really reprehensible! We are supposed to work here and discuss substantially and not go alone in the cable car industry. Thank you, Mr President, Mrs Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14791	The next speaker was Mr Hagen. 3 minutes speaking time. – Bitt e.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14817	Mr President. Minister! High house! I might say at the outset that the first one who made a reasonable relief in cable car policy here was the Minister of Transport of the BZÖ Hubert Gorbach. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] So he already knew what it was all about. He also comes from the country of Vorarlberg, where there are many cable cars, and he was the first reasonable transport politician in this area. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grill: That was brave!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the implementation of the cable car law, it has been shown that the issues of worker protection in the project documents for building approval procedures are often misrepresented and incomplete. This change of law, according to the Government's proposal, is intended to avoid the repeated delays in the procedure. In future, the requirements of worker protection should therefore be included in the safety analysis of the individual areas such as construction, geology, cable car technology, electrical engineering et cetera. As a result, the separate safety analysis, which has so far been included in the construction design, does not cover the protection of workers. However, there is no change in this area of worker protection. The aim is simply to improve and speed up administrative procedures, which is very positive. Our foreign exchange is: As little as possible administration, as little bureaucracy as possible, rapid procedures for improving the situation. It is therefore intended to improve the quality of the project documents to be submitted in the construction permit procedure, i.e. the construction design, and to establish, with the new provision of § 60a, the legal basis for establishing a binding content of the safety report contained in the construction design and safety analysis. The requirements for the creators of the safety report should also be able to be laid down in this context. So we see, here just administration is saved, here bureaucracy is reduced, according to the motto of the BZÖ: Enough paid! We citizens have paid enough, we save in the administration. That's the right way, Mrs. Minister. Keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14864	Mrs Bures has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14885	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! I would, of course, like to comment briefly on the amendments to the cable car law, but, Mrs Moser, I would like to make the following point on the discussions and the issues here in Parliament in connection with Austrian transport policy: Since I have been Members of this House for 16 years, I know that there is also a good self-confidence and self-understanding of Members. That is why it is up to you and to the agenda which this House is preparing, and not to the government. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: (with the poor pointing towards SPÖ and ÖVP) There and there!]] So, as a member of the Austrian Federal Government, I would never think that I would make any demands on the House here. However, what I do – and this is important to me – is not to let a day go by without knowing what my position is regarding the future of Austrian transport policy and its priorities, and that for every discussion that takes place in this House in a committee, i.e. the Transport Committee, on the one hand, as far as scheduling is concerned, there is always every possibility for each appointment. This is also important to me because I believe that this is a significant topic that I am actually willing to discuss day and night. I believe that with regard to the economic location of employment in this country, this has a great deal to do with the mobility we provide, and this will be even more important in the future if we want to take action to stop climate change. There are green technologies, environmentally friendly mobility the only real answer. That is why I think this is an important issue, which, as I said, I am willing to discuss day and night – what you know by the way; but I think you did not mean me either. [[Abg. Dr. Moser points the arms back to the left and to the right.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the question of economic location and mobility, it is true that winter sports are of course a very important economic factor for Austria. I believe that it is also something we can be proud of that Austria is the market leader in winter sports holidays in Europe – a small country like Austria! We have around 32 million people in Europe who are skiing, and there is of course something quite great that most of these people spend their holidays in Austria. I believe that this really makes the importance, including economic importance, clear. It becomes clear that in a region like Austria with its mountains and the valleys where many people live, it would be unthinkable today if we did not have winter tourism. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why this has a lot to do with the economic location and employment of a country. This is one thing as far as the cable car industry is concerned: that we are strengthening national tourism, ensuring employment in these regions. The second thing I would like to mention briefly is that, even as regards technology transfer, we are at the forefront of cable cars worldwide. This means that we not only ensure good tourism and economic recovery in the country, but also provide technology transfer worldwide, because we are top suppliers of cable car technologies around the world. I hardly have anything to add to the speeches of my previous speakers. You referred to the changes. It is about the changes that we want to strengthen the quality of the cable cars, that of course the safety of the cable cars is at the centre and that we want to strengthen them. I would like to thank all of you because, as far as I have now taken this out of the Minutes, all the groups in the House will also agree to these amendments. I thank you for your consent. I am grateful for the cooperation, especially thanks to the employees of my home for the preparation of these changes. This is, as has been said, of great economic importance for a tourism country such as Austria. Thank you very much for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14939	The next speaker was Mr Keck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14960	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by welcoming the Pensionist Association Keferfeld, who spends the day here today under the motto “Parliamentaryism live” and listens to us and see how parliamentarianism works. Ladies and gentlemen! It was not until 2009 that the cable car law was last amended. This last change had its cause in the implementation of an EU directive, which was particularly concerned with safety in the planning and construction of cable cars. He's devoted himself to it. But what is often only a good and far-off theory for the EU is a serious practice for a country like Austria, because no other EU country has as many cable cars as we do in Austria and nowhere else in the EU more new cable cars are being built than in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, however, our practitioners also encountered problems with the 2009 legislation very quickly, and we would like to follow their proposals today and improve the cable car law. Our objectives are that the concerns of worker protection in the project documents are better expressed, that authority competence is clearly explained, that the quality of the project documents is also increasing in all other areas and that there are fewer delays in the process, because at present often improvement orders according to § 13 of the AVG result in very large delays. These changes must not, of course, suffer from safety, ladies and gentlemen, and the requirements of worker protection will in future be included in the safety analyses of the individual fields such as building, geology, cable car technology and electrical engineering. Although this will lead to separate safety analyses on worker protection in the future, this will not affect the level of safety. In this sense, I am very pleased that we have been able to reach unanimity in the Committee on Transport. I too welcome the administrative simplification behind this legislative decision, and therefore I am pleased that the Committee has been established, which could be reached together with the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15003	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15039	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I shall explain why I am referring to the cable car law, Mr Grillitsch. In fact, everything has already been said. [[Abg. May. Widmann: But not of him!]] There is broad agreement from all political groups on the amendment to the 2003 cable car law. It is a question of greater security, of safety analyses in terms of worker protection, of less bureaucracy, of administrative simplification. The Ministry and the Chamber of Commerce will join. I can speak as a Lower Austrian – now I am on the subject – because in Lower Austria we also have 45 cable cars. There are beautiful cable cars – on the Rax or the Snowberg if you want to visit them once. These are also 1 100 jobs in Lower Austria and a value added of 24 million €. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But the most important thing is – this is also very interesting for the Tyroleans – that we founded a “NÖ Bergbahnen Beteiligungsgesellschaft” in Lower Austria a few days ago, in order to establish a joint advertising and joint management with those companies that have economic problems, but which can be very promising through modernisation measures. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Well, that's it!]] This is an important step. Below are the cable cars in St. Corona on the change. Mrs. Federal Minister, I think that the ORF has called again today – he will also report to you. I do not want to spread on transport issues as much as Mrs Moser, but it is about 100 km/h restrictions downhill. If you were asked again, I would ask you to see the support of this region. I thank you for your attention and would like to congratulate Mr Hörl on his work at the end. I believe that it is the key factor in the achievement of this innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15109	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15130	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! After the novels of 2007 and 2009, this novel is another to the cable car law. It is constantly working on an area that concerns an essential economic factor in Austria – winter tourism has already been mentioned, but summer tourism is part of it, and cable cars are an essential part of it. More than 70 percent of winter holidaymakers come to Austria to ski. Cable cars are the general service providers on the mountain, they offer not only the transportation and transport but also numerous additional offers. Around 3 000 lifts with a total annual turnover of € 1.2 billion and an annual investment volume of over € 560 million for winter, of which approximately € 290 million are spent on safety, comfort and modernisation of the facilities, the transport of around 630 million people and about 14 000 people – these are figures that illustrate how important cable car companies are for our regions. It has been mentioned several times that greater safety, greater protection of workers and administrative simplification are part of this novel. Workers' protection is included in the safety analyses of cable car installations, competence of the competent authorities is clarified and regulations for safety analyses are regulated by law. Also new are rules on the content of the analyses as well as requirements for those producing the safety reports. In any case, the new law must be supported. All new regulations will benefit both workers and workers as well as operators and, last but not least, users and tourism as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15163	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Reported on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15185	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Rädler, our beaver guard – I don't see him – has meant that everything has already been said. [[Abg. Wheeler: Here I am!]] - Hello, God! Mr Rädler, I do not think that is the case. I also feel that Parliamentaryism is a kind of dialogue, though only one speaks – sometimes, of course, some speak in between – but at the end of the day it should be a dialogue in that one listens to each other, forms one another's opinion and then takes steps that benefit the people under the rule. If I had said to myself the words of my colleague Mr Hörl, my Tyrolean “genossen”, I would have soon said that my Tyrolean colleague in the field of cable car industry has to say – Mr Hörl has said that it is not a big throw and that one will see where this innovation leads: [[Ironic cheerfulness with ÖVP and BZÖ]] No, it's always like that. But if you look at the number of paragraphs that have been changed, I'm right, Mr. Hörl, that wasn't a lot, but they still pay! Of course, you are based on other conditions. I know you as a Tyrolean MP; what is going on in the cable car industry, you certainly don't do everything wrong, but you don't do everything right either. [[Mr Hörl and Mr Rädler's calls.]] When I pursue the ongoing discussion in Tyrol, I have to tell you that not only is unbridled tourism and an unbridled cable car industry important to us, but of course also nature conservation is very important. I would like to ask you to go there from time to time, to “hear in” you a little bit – so to speak – and to think about what is important for nature in Tyrol and in total in Austria. I'm allowed to replicate: There are, after all, some essential points to be addressed in this innovation. There has also been a social partnership consensus to which you have contributed. Workers' protection will be improved, procedures will be accelerated – you must be pleased and we too are pleased to do so. The fact that workers' protection is strengthened surely makes us as happy as you are. The fact that the administration is simplified, that the Ministry of Transport has more to say, is certainly not bad. We know how countries often work, so it is important that we put it on a broad basis and that there is a strong hand from the League. I say that, although I too am a strong federalist. I want the following to be left under the line of what I have said – I do not repeat everything – for you to go in and think about in Tyrol. Maybe I could have moved you to that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15242	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1006 of the supplements. Mr Heinzl, Mr Ferdinand Maier, Mr Hizu have tabled an additional request. I shall first vote on the supplementary request just mentioned and then on the Government template and title and receipt. MEPs Heinzl, Dr Ferdinand Maier, colleagues have tabled an additional proposal which includes the introduction of new paragraphs 5 and 6. I would like to ask those Members of the House who are voting for this supplementary request for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Government template and the title and receipt in 1006 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:29:03]] 4. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (1054 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Organisation of Universities and its Studies (University Law 2002 – UG) (1079 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15319	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr. Rosenkranz spoke on the floor. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15346	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! This change is perhaps felt by some to be a big throw, and we clearly do not see it that way. We note that in the Ministry of Science there is no really forward-looking planning in terms of universities, but rather a small patch of measures that ultimately do not do anything. Instead of monitoring the development of birth years and involving them in planning, for example, a small change is now being made, which comprises a total of three paragraphs. One cannot resist the impression that it is currently about stopping as many students as possible from studying, oversowing them with Knock-out tests and then – and this is especially the line of the ÖVP under applause of the BZÖ – still with tuition fees. This is a way we don't want to go. We want under the title of social justice these Knock-out tests not to take place. It sounds everywhere that all layers must go to the university as far as possible. Once you have passed through and started a second time, however, only the way to the private university remains, perhaps to pursue a study. Just to give an example: In Krems, the costs for a semester of medical studies at the private university amount to 12 000 € – that is, “safe” something for the socially weak in this country, for which social democracy is always very much committed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are in such a way that the needs of the students are not addressed to the needs of the existing places. That's the wrong way. We actually want to open the studies. If you also hear that you want to have as high a academic rate as possible, you have to say that you do exactly the opposite by forcing the Knock-out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now in detail: There are three law-making bodies that are being changed. It is now formally applied for within a corresponding period of time. Then there should be a study advice – one should rather speak of a choice of study advice. Then there should be a so-called entry and orientation phase, almost a third section of study, at the end of which is an examination which can be repeated once, with a corresponding plan of the rectorate. We note that this was also not quite well solved legally. One could think, in terms of content, and a brush, that the execution in legalism As far as I'm concerned. There are a lot of regulatory powers in this. There is a regulation on how the individual legislative bodies, such as the application or the study entry-in and orientation phase, enter into force. But § 63 para. The following paragraph 6 is added: “For the first time, admission to a Bachelor’s and Diploma’s degree studies, according to the existence of a Federal Minister’s or Federal Minister’s Regulation, in agreement with the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture, the proof that before the study was completed, the trainee or the study promoter has taken advantage of a study advice.” That is to say, the whole scheme is based on the fact that the Ministry of Science will eventually develop a regulation on what this study advice or study selection advice should look like. This requires the approval or consultation of the Ministry of Education. By the way, it is an old-fashioned proposal to bring these two ministries together into a Ministry of Education, thus saving the conversation about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then this regulation comes. When will she come? When are the students supposed to think that this is going to happen? That's just too undetermined for us. We even have strong doubts that this is so easy in the construction of the legal system. Then comes the last one: This study advice is cost-neutral to the study advice carried out so far. At present, about 25 percent of students have taken this advice. In the future, it will be 100 percent, more quality is to be offered – at the same cost. This is the same argument that makes the abolition of military service by Mr Darabos tasty. We just don't believe it, because every Austrian knows that more time and more performance cost more money.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15425	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15447	Mr President! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In today's novel of the University Law 2002, we are taking a very important step towards more quality in our universities with the re-regulation of the study entry and orientation phase. All those who are opposed are against more quality at our universities, that is to say to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Please go!]] It is crucial that we give universities a tool with which they can establish even higher quality frameworks and achieve better planning and better preparation for students from the beginning of their studies. Mr Rosenkranz, on the other hand, one cannot be unless one wants to continue the chaos in many overcrowded areas of study. Let me take three cornerstones at this point – you have already mentioned that. First of all, the mandatory pre-registration. What does it do? – The mandatory pre-registration allows universities to know at an early stage how many students are interested in the respective course of study. This has the advantage of not having to wait until the end of the entire inscription period, but of being able to prepare for the next semester in August and thus offer more courses if necessary. Second point: compulsory study advice. The study advice is, of course, the most important in the school sector. That is why we are voting on these two departments. It will be very important to ensure that the students prepare themselves in good time from the tenth level of school to the point of study they choose. Because we know today that 60 percent of the students use only 10 percent of the offer. We want to motivate, motivate and show new opportunities to students in a timely manner towards the MINT subjects, but also those areas in which we need more demand. They should not only reproduce the courses of study from the family and social environment, but choose from the wide range of possibilities offered by universities and colleges. That this cannot be mandatory in autumn is precisely the point of the regulation. This would be too early, but the aim of both department leaders is to introduce this offer with the following year of study in a comprehensive and mandatory manner. Third point: Qualitative admission procedures at the entry stage provide that there is an overview first. We see in the courses in which there are already such courses that offer an overview of the coming studies that many students are surprised about what is happening to them. Through the joint study entry phase, they can still be rescheduled in time. In other words, those who have not chosen the appropriate study despite careful advice can, as far as possible, leave without delay. Overall, we create better planning and transparency with the law, but also ensuring that students choose their qualifications and interests according to the right degree and then find study conditions there that allow them to complete a quick study. But let me tell you how it must continue. This law is a first important step in a series of steps that are still to be taken. First: The next step, which will be important, is better capacity planning and links with university funding. This has proved to be good in the high school sector, we need comparable models for universities as well. The Federal Minister is working on this, working on it with high pressure and high intensity. Secondly, we also need clarity in the capacity determinations as to how we can obtain university autonomy but at the same time achieve a certain degree of control. We must accompany our universities towards greater competitiveness as a whole. Mr Rosenkranz, I would remind you at this point that every neighbouring country of Austria already has stages of study, admission procedures and study contributions. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: But no hidden ones!]] So don't pretend it's an exception in Austria! We're the exception because we don't have it. We are the only country across the EU. That is to say, Austria should somehow secure free access to higher education for the whole of Europe. Unfortunately, Mr Rosenkranz, this is not possible, even if we wish. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We cannot afford it, we cannot finance it. That is why we are moving towards what Europe is doing. Let's join you. With this novelle, we need to take a first step in this direction. I would like to thank the Federal Minister very much – for her sustainability, for her commitment in this context, for the broad discussion process in this difficult matter that she has begun. It has really included all the target groups and discussed them intensively. I believe that the present draft – and still can They agree – a viable compromise, with which we can jointly ensure that capacities, funding, places of study will also be properly anchored in the future and that we come to a higher quality starting point for our students. I should also like to thank the officials who have done a great deal of work for us in the negotiations until the end of the year, who have repeatedly put forward new political compromises for us. Thank you very much for having succeeded in allowing us to decide on this in time. I would like to thank the universities, which now have to do a high-quality job in a few weeks, namely what we are likely to decide or decide to do today, in fact, in such a way that our students will have good conditions in the coming year. I am pleased if the half or quarter of a million, the colleague Van der Bellen in Vienna, also benefits the University of Vienna. I think that the infrastructure can be saved a little bit to give even more support to our universities in Vienna from there. Thank you very much in this sense, Mrs Federal Minister, officials and universities, for coming and supporting the implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15530	Mr Grünewald spoke as the next speaker. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15551	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! I was always – at least to this day – in the hope and in the faith that education policy could form a sort of coalition of the reasonable, which brings something forward in research and teaching, where one makes material policy together. Because of the last speech, I have reason enough to lose this faith or at least doubt it. Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager, if you think that all those who do not unconditionally agree to ÖVP designs would harm the Republic or shake at its foundations, I think this is already a strong piece; even if you call it “great throw”. Take note – and otherwise ask the members of the universities and their governing bodies: Universities, educational universities and colleges face a difficult situation. Poor care conditions, often lack of infrastructure, low budgets hardly allow a big step into the future, allow hardly to find the connection to student numbers compared to OECD and European averages – averages! Instead of clear or concrete recipes or ideas, you provide us with vague promises, instead of forward-looking strategies, legislative texts come that need to be questioned more than questions. I come to the first point: Orientation and input phases, and quote what they should do: The initial stages are intended to provide an overview of the essential contents of each study and its further course and to provide an objective basis for decision-making in the selection of studies. But what's next? – One or more courses – you can think what's coming – are offered for at least half a semester during this course of study. And that's a trap of history, really true. In the minimal case, a course for half a semester should provide orientation about the study and the further course of the study. You're gonna have to jump at me! I can't! That's impossible! But universities will be forced to provide fewer courses, perhaps fewer exams because they do not have the necessary resources. We have proposed to combine related subjects and create an orientation phase from which students from two, three or four subjects can then choose the best suitable for them after they have passed the respective exams and take them into account. – No talk about it. A test is a delicate test. Those universities that have the worst facilities will necessarily have to test out, not for less morality or for joy in sadistic practices. For decades, they have known which studies have the greatest potential, where the number of students has quadrupled since the 1960s, but the care conditions have doubled to a maximum. They have watched for years, decades – not you, but many others – and now believe they can guarantee quality by reducing the number of students. That's simple, that's so simple and transparent – sad is the least you can get with it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you are looking for an exam now – universities may make several reasons for this –: What do you promote if lessons have to take place for only half a semester? – They promote the short-term memory. Is that your education policy? They encourage you to buff, to learn externally. Is that what you want? At least we don't wish for that. Then there is compulsory student advice. You're saying that this isn't going anyway because you've come up with it, it's not that easy, but go into another department or other expertise and cut the school you're not responsible for. It's a little simple, too. It belongs to a top-level reform, but against which the ÖVP is again blocked. I think that university teachers should be involved in the teaching of the upper level, where they report on their studies, the terms of study; instead of the third week of skiing, you might be able to do a sniper week at the universities or the field work of the Matura after listening to certain lectures. Why not? – Teachers could take advantage of this time when teachers teach, perhaps even hear some lectures again and so on. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But if you say that this student advice should be free of charge if a quadruple of consulting numbers is to be achieved, then the fun will stop at all. There everyone can look into his horoscope and then probably get more information – not that you believe, I believe in horoscopes, but the quality will be about the same. I still wish for a coalition of reasonable ones, but if that is called a “great throw, ” that is a huge obstacle to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15641	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15663	Ladies and gentlemen! With this amendment, we are following the call for, the call for, the need of universities for measures to improve planning, in the three steps which have already been taken by my previous speakers. The first step is that we want to do a lot to improve the consultation. We are taking the first step towards mandatory guidance before choosing a study, because we believe it is necessary to provide young people with more information and support in order to be able to make the right choice of study options from their point of view. It's right, there are still some open questions to be resolved. I think it is right that the Minister of Science has said that there is no point in breaking this quickly over the knee. It is about – of course, together with the Minister of Education; the school and the importance have already been addressed – to give advice to young people in this phase of life. One will still consider together how this can be offered and ordered. From my point of view, it is of course important that resources should also be provided, because the corresponding offer must be ensured if young people are to be obliged to accept this advice. The school is an important field, as Mr Grünewald has already mentioned, and it cannot be left to teachers alone in the school. In this context, universities also have an important role to play in providing information to potential students, and the Ministry of Science is also required to prepare information and to prepare the wide range of training opportunities in the tertiary sector in such a way that students can accept it accordingly. The second step is the pre-registration phase that we are introducing as an attempt to give universities a little earlier the opportunity to estimate the evolution of demand in certain studies, in order to be able to adapt to it. The third step is to make some changes in the study entry phase more binding. From our point of view, it is important that we continue to ensure that every study beginner/starter in Austria can also start his/her studies in the future. Accordingly, there are no admission procedures that are pre-primary to the study. There is a one-semester study entry phase, which remains the first part of the study. The examinations completed during the course of the study are already the first examinations to be considered for the study. That remains unchanged. So this is not a change that introduces or promotes Knock-out tests. The entry phase remains unchanged, a phase in which students are to be given guidance, an overview of – as already quoted – the course and content of the study. I think that a semester is enough time to get orientation on the essential content that comes on one in a study. It is also very important to me to stress that this law is limited in time. It is linked to an evaluation so that we can rely on duly prepared data and facts if we finally decide here in Parliament on how this regulation should be continued or improved.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15718	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Karl spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15739	Mr National Council President! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. As you all know, in recent years there has been a strong flow of students in our universities for very different reasons; whether more students have come because they wanted to escape, for example, the Numerus clausus in their home country or the obligation to study, whether it is for students to visit our universities more and more in the mass subjects because they are simply too poor or too little information about the wide range of our study offer. We see that in the mass compartments, the situation is becoming increasingly unbearable, already unbearable. In the future, this situation will be worsened by the increased flow of German students as a result of the double year of Abiturion and the abolition of general military service in Germany. We must respond to this situation, we must respond to this situation, and therefore we have prepared the draft law on this matter which you are today. It is placed on three cornerstones, and none of these cornerstones serves to keep students from studying, for example, from being addressed by parliamentarian Rosary. Rather, we want to help students quickly to understand whether they are suitable for a certain degree. But let me take a closer look at the three cornerstones of this draft law. The draft law already provides for a binding pre-registration before the inscription in order to increase planning capacity for universities. At the moment, the universities only know at a very late date how many students they actually have, but through this mandatory pre-registration they already know before the inscription how many students can count on maximum. The second cornerstone of this reform concerns the mandatory study advice already mentioned. The mandatory study advice is therefore important because we see that around 60 percent of the students go into just 10 percent of the subjects. In other words, we need to inform the incoming students more about the possibilities for study. We have thank God, a wide range of study opportunities, but we need to provide even more information about them – therefore mandatory study advice. Mr Rosenkranz has already mentioned that there will be a common regulation by me and the Minister for Education to specify the details. I can assure you, honourable Member, that the conversation between Mrs Pedagogical Minister Schmied and me also works so well, we do not need a combination of the ministries in order to have a good conversation basis. We will also have this good basis for conversation when writing this regulation. But it is a matter of providing a very good, comprehensive offer of study guidance – of course we still need time to do so, and we need a well developed common regulation, because schools are also in demand, because schools also have an important role to play when it comes to student guidance. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Has the teachers' union already heard this?]] The third cornerstone of this reform is the study entry and orientation phase, which is now being redesigned. This new study entry and orientation phase will be tightened, it will include a semester and the examination repetitions will be reduced. There is a possibility of repetition, expressly providing that there may not only be a single examination in this initial phase of study, but there will be several tests with reduced repetition possibilities. This streamlined course of study is used to quickly clarify whether or not they are suitable for this study. Mr Rosenkranz, you said that if you do not complete the study phase positively, you will only remain the way to a private university. - It's not like that. If you don't create the entrance phase, you can do the same at another university, you can choose another degree at a public university. So there are still many possibilities. Of course, the hall is also open to a private university, but this is not the only way that exists if you do not have a positive entrance phase. But, as has been said, it is really a matter of providing the students with clarity as to whether they are suitable for specific studies, and also of improving planning for universities. Performance and quality are at the forefront of this new study entry phase, and I also have to say clearly and clearly: This is a first important step. I am not saying that this is the ultimate step and that we have solved all the problems at universities with this draft law. I would not take that into account in this draft. It is simply about putting an important first step in the right direction. We need a more transparent regime than we now have, and a more honest regime; a more honest regime for students and universities. I am referring to the funding of study places where we have already started the work. Through the funding of study places, based on a capacity determination, there is indeed a need to increase the honesty and transparency of students and universities. Mr Grünewald mentioned it quite correctly: Yes, we have some quality problems with regard to the care conditions. That is why I would like to see a place of study that is capacity-oriented and quality-oriented. Quality-oriented in the sense that it is linked to international care conditions. Quality is quite, very important to me in this regard. We still have a lot of things to do, there's not much going on yet, as I would like it to be for our universities. That is why it is important that we proceed quickly to work on an Austrian model of study place funding. Of course also with discussions on capacity determination, which is part of a study place financing. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Austrian models are not in demand!]] – Of course we need an Austrian model. I don't assume that we can cross an international model one by one over our universities. We need to develop an Austrian model that corresponds to our Austrian universities and their particularities. Overall, it is about making universities competitive, competitive with the best. I think it is very important that we see that we are taking an important step into the future with the universities, into a good future for our universities. This law is a first step towards a better basis for the future of our universities and thus also a better basis for the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15794	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[14:59:34]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues in Austria's exit from the Euratom Treaty (1427/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15825	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1427/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, his reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15908	I give the floor to Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15932	Mr President. I think I'll wait for a member of the government to appear.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15966	A member of the government is currently present, that is the Federal Minister for Science, and now another one is added. Please continue, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15984	We would have liked to have a competent member of the government, but I see that the Federal Chancellor has arrived. That is a good thing, and the Minister for the Environment has now arrived. It is good that you are interested in the question of Euratom. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the Greens:In contrast to SPÖ!]] – Yes, little presence at the SPÖ, you also have to notice. [[Abg. Riepl: There are also a few missing! You're missing a few too!]] It is a shame, because this debate is currently moving a lot of citizens on the streets who, with very little resources in their spare time, during the time they normally have for family and other activities, are committed to a political concern, namely for a popular desire that calls on the Federal Government to resign from Euratom and to conduct a referendum on this subject. From this point of view, I would like to thank these people for volunteering, in addition to their professional activity, for their commitment to these things. These are important questions in the interests of the Austrian population. Thank you very much for that! [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] The European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community – we will look at all of this in detail – is a very abstract concept. What we all remember very well, very directly and immediately is the 26. ==References== The day on which the Chernobyl nuclear power plant – then in the Soviet Union, in today's Ukraine – was de facto exploded in a very large accident, huge amounts of radioactivity were delivered to the environment and a radioactive cloud across Europe caused enormous damage, even in Austria, for the twenty-fifth time now. At this time, the 1st May march took place in Vienna. It rained. Radioactive fallout was extremely damaging to many people at the time, and many still remember the bans not to go to the sand boxes, knock off the shoes, stop harvesting forest fruit, et cetera. In Austria this has led to a rethinking, and it would have meant the end of the nuclear economy throughout Europe, would it not be Euratom. Euratom is certainly the lifeline of an industry that has been responsible for such terrible accidents, in which so many people have died. Without Euratom, there would be no such continuation of the industry. [[MEPs of the Greens are detaching a transparency with the title ‘RAUS AUS Euratom!’]] That's why there's only one alternative, and that's for Austria and for many committed people across Europe: Quit this European Atomic Energy Community, get out of Euratom and instead invest in renewable energy sources! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] This discussion has been going on in Austria for a long time and again with the same tenor. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We may have to mention again now and explain what Euratom is doing, what Austria is involved in, how the arguments are drawn up, and how to clarify them. Euratom is essentially a community very undemocraticly organized. The European Parliament has nothing to say. There are two major activities: on the one hand, interest-privileged loans for very large projects, especially for new nuclear power plants, and on the other hand, there is the research programme, where billions are mainly involved in the development of nuclear fusion reactors, but also new nuclear reactors – the famous generation IV – are to be researched. – So a community, an association in which the Austrian objective of a nuclear-free central Europe or the strengthening of the share of renewable energy should not be necessarily involved. Since the terrorist attack on the Twin Towers in the U.S., a new threat has been created, which is constantly being hidden – completely – that no single nuclear power plant in Europe would be prepared against a targeted terrorist attack or a plane crash. This applies in particular to installations at the Austrian borders. Isar 1, for example, in Germany, or Mochovce with its secondary containment, the famous Bubble Condenser – i.e. without a solid protective cover – but also Dukovany – all nuclear power plants built within the famous death zone around Austria. This danger is completely hidden as if it did not exist. It does not exist in a security concept, in no political discussion. On the contrary: In the context of Euratom, €4 billion has been made available in loans over the last 20 years – after Chernobyl – in order to further expand nuclear energy. The great benefit of this money shift was primarily France with over a billion, but also Italy and Belgium – that is, the large nuclear countries – have benefited greatly from these funds, and Austria has paid for it since its accession to the European Union. It is about half a billion € that Austria has made available in this area de facto – from Austrian tax funds. Above all, the ÖVP is now always the counter-argument, which is only intended for safety and disposal. That's wrong, though. The argument is not true. The 1989 breakdown of the EU Commission speaks a very clear language: The main part of the Euratom loan is used for the production of electricity. This is just about nuclear power production and nothing else. Safety and waste disposal are suggested arguments. This is the last fig leaves on which Austria is still holding on to this question to argue that one is further involved. There is also a lot of money going into the famous nuclear fusion research. There is a promise of salvation, and the salvation will continue to be pushed into the future. In 40 years, in 50 years, in 60 years, it will finally be possible to produce actually commercial electricity with nuclear fusion. We don't want to wait that long. We believe that these funds would be significantly more sensible, intelligent and more invested in the field of renewable energy sources. Here we need them very urgently in order to finally reduce our dependence on uranium or also on oil and gas, and finally let them run out. Austria's voting behaviour over all these years is also interesting. Austria is very happy to argue – and above all the Minister for the Environment is meant – that we should be here because we could talk with them. It's worth looking at this. In itself, it is not a false argument: If you're somewhere, you can also talk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] The only question is whether Austria has ever spoken seriously. If you look at the ÖVP balance here, if you look at the Austrian efforts in the context of the Euratom Community from the outset, you can see that. Unfortunately, this is a very sobering balance sheet! In particular, the ÖVP has played a very dual role since, of course, all conservative parties are Europeans per atom and, obviously, the Austrian ÖVP or the ÖVP Group in Brussels is also very difficult to oppose this mainstream. In 2000, for example, the ÖVP decided against renewable energy sources, because, as it argued, it was an unlawful state aid, competitive advantage that could not be argued. And there was a thin majority against the promotion of renewables and nuclear energy. – Unfortunately! We have similar things a few years later. Here again, the VP delegation in the European Parliament voted against a revision, against a reform of the Euratom Treaty. – Interesting and in need of explanation, how you justify this crime if Put yourself here on the wrong side to commit irration. At the time, the Minister for Education Gehrer has repeatedly agreed to the research programmes on our great illiteracy. This was a threefold increase in research funds for the nuclear industry from 2007 to 2013. More than €4 billion has been made available. Austria has agreed. It goes even further: Very soft safety proposals from the Commission, which de facto meant the free letter for new construction and extension of the term, were blessed by Austria, by Minister for the Environment Berlakovich. – So, that’s what I’m talking about? Missteps why if you're wrong with this crime? The second argument, too, that we should continue to pay anyway, is wrong. But in the discussion you have to look at the motives again. Greenpeace pointed out yesterday, with a remarkable legal study, a point that we would have liked to clarify already in the autumn, namely, the possibility Austria has to proceed in the context of the Euratom Treaty against the extension of the term in Germany. There are possibilities. They didn't even want to examine these possibilities. The Greenpeace opinion assumes that there would have been an opportunity to initiate infringement proceedings against Germany. Here again, the question arises as to how the crime is. Why are these things not even tested? What presupposes itself as an interpretation is that there are interests here, namely personal and economic interests. Wolfgang Schüssel changed his pages a few months ago, and I ask you today, Minister for the Environment: Does this change of sides have anything to do with your lax anti-atomic policy? [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Since April 2010, Wolfgang Schüssel has been on the Supervisory Board of the German energy giant and nuclear group RWE. This was one of the sharpers at the exit discussion, during the extension of the run-times. They operate Gundremmingen, Biblis, Emsland, some very old plants, and – what you have to say – this supervisory board activity is not a volunteer work. It is expected to be from € 200 000 to € 300 000 per year. I emphasize: 200 000 to 300 000 €! There you have to ask the question of which side the ÖVP now stands. Which side is Wolfgang Schüssel on? From my point of view, it is absolutely incompatible, and it is bound by political corruption, in the Austrian National Council on Energy Policy to vote on anti-atomic policy while sitting on the Supervisory Board one of Europe's largest nuclear giants and personally benefiting from the extension of the duration of these German nuclear power stations. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I would be pleased if you could make a clear statement on this. Our opinion – and I believe that of many citizens – is very clear: Wolfgang Schüssel has to decide: either a representative in the interests of the Austrian population or a Supervisory Board in the interest of an atom giant! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] The expansion plans around Austria are now worrying. Unfortunately, we have the bad luck that since 2000 – i.e. since the last ten years – the nuclear risk on Austria's borders has probably doubled: Thanks to the completed expansion in Temelēn, in Mochovce, the new plans in Upper Italy and Switzerland, the extension of the term in Paks in Hungary and the disaster in Germany. There is a devastating balance sheet with regard to disposal possibilities, here again Germany: Around the camp ace there was a long discussion, it is supposed to be safe, it is supposed to be dry, but through this saltstock the streams have flown through. – So there is a failure at many levels, but there are still expansion plans that are based solely on the fact that there is a European nuclear community that supports this, which supports it and which also plays a very bad role in each of these projects. The last and latest argument is to misuse climate protection as a cover for nuclear development plans, and there are always advances from the Commission in this direction. We would have wished and expected from Austria a much louder, much stronger and much more offensive approach to all these projects. Above all, you, Mr Umweltminister, but also yours, Mr Bundeskanzler, have not been included in any of these expansion plans. Instead of taking a clear and keen position in advance of projects, they have held back from taking advantage of international opportunities – based on contracts – and have taken seriously and seriously the health and safety interests of the Austrian population. Nuclear policy should not end at the Austrian border. In the Boulevard and at the Austrian border very often the Austrian anti-atomic policy ends, and that is certainly not what the population now expects. Interestingly, both SPÖ and ÖVP were ready to support popular desire in many days, to decide on the content. We have decisions from 2007 and 2008 of all nine Austrian country days. Voices of the SPÖs, votes of the ÖVPs, votes of the Greens, votes of the FPÖs – in all nine days of the country, there are decisions that the Federal Government is calling on to take this exit as well. Nearly 200 municipalities have demanded this and demanded it. And you wonder what else there has to be – apart from such a strong movement in the population – so that you can finally move in the Federal Government. I think, especially in view of the fact that many political issues have led to blockade situations between ÖVP and SPÖ, that nothing goes further in many areas, it is really a great mistake to ignore such a strong vote from the country days, from the communities, from the population not to respond, to build it down, to ignore it, and, finally, to not even have the courage to reject it in the Committee on the Environment, but simply to delay it and thus to get the debate to disappear. That's not fair! This is not fair to all those people who work and engage in this field. That is why we are making this urgent request today in order not to allow you to hide it. Vorarlberg, Salzburg, Upper Austria, all have decided with great commitment, and your only argument – in the ÖVP and in the SPÖ – is now a legal, legal one. They say that it is not possible at all that this is not legally possible. They refer to two legal opinions. However, there are three other legal opinions that say it is very possible. They overlook a very important issue in the European Union. Many questions are not purely legal questions. The exit from a sub-Community of the European Union would be an absolute innovation. And it would give rise to an incredible dynamic in the field of energy policy discussion if a country like Austria entered the Euratom Treaty in withdrawal negotiations. You don't even want to try it. They do not even want to try to start and get out of these negotiations. They were already behind legal arguments in advance and say that it was not possible at all. One can be of different opinion on this, but give up before trying it is the usual cowardice in anti-atomic policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] If a German Chancellor even wants to work with popular initiatives on a matter of unanimity in the Council, he may also have the courage to address this on an environmental policy issue. The arguments of the Minister for the Environment could not be more harsh. He says that the whole discussion is counterproductive and that participation in Euratom is so important; we should say that we should be part of it anyway. You can save yourself today from these arguments. All these arguments are outraged in the public. It's obvious: The question of whether or not to continue to be paid will be clarified in the context of the exit negotiations. You could already prepare for how you would do this, but not throw the flint into the grain from the outset and give up with the usual courage, especially in these important questions. Whoever is against nuclear energy, who is against nuclear power, who is against nuclear power plants, must also be for eco electricity, for renewable energy sources. And this is the last chapter I have to blame you both: All the issues relating to renewable energy sources must be disputed every millimeter. There is no awareness at all that precisely these energy sources would make us immature on this issue. What's that look like? A nuclear balance in the Austrian electricity grid of 10, 12 or 15 percent – probably even higher – on the one hand, and on the other hand, anti-atomic policies are being challenged!Unknown term type: "%s".? Or: Consistent expansion of renewable energy sources – there is no new eco electricity law to date. Fairness! I emphasize: To this day there is no new eco electricity law. [[Abg. Head: There is a valid one!]] – There is a valid, that is completely ineffective, it is an eco-current obstacle law! We all know that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Those who are against nuclear energy must present a new eco electricity law, in which very different objectives are also set than these milky expansion plans, which keep the Austrian economy at the periphery level in this area and do not make it big. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] I now wish you, Mr Environment Minister, no more excuses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] Don't be counterproductive, just put They are behind all the people who now stand on the street, collect signatures, sign them, and sign them on the parish office or district office! This is a useful initiative, these are small environmental organisations that do not have billions of funds available to set up advertising campaigns, as you do in the ministries, but they do all of this volunteerly, and the objectives they pursue are absolutely worth being pursued. Grab that! Stop that courage at last! This is probably the worst in anti-atomic policy, always to give up from the outset, to fall into the victim role from the outset, and to say that we could do nothing anyway. Think about how to prepare this exit! You have the full support of the Greens and many Citizens' Initiatives, who have been demanding this from you for years and also have the right to receive serious work from you and not from your refusal to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16150	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16171	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have already discussed the issue of Euratom in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The arguments repeat themselves. It rotates around the circle. Now there's a popular desire on the table. That's legitimate. This is also true if initiatives want a topic to be discussed publicly. But it is clear that popular desire is not aimed at being opposed to nuclear energy, but rather at getting out of a treaty, namely the Euratom Treaty. [[Members of the Greens and BZÖ each hold a transparency in the amount with the title: “Raus from Euratom!”, the one with the Green Group bearing the logo of the Greens.]] And it is also quite clear that we all agree that you can also conjure up something here with your transparency, which is not present here in both the government and the political groups here in Parliament – if you come here, you see it. Then: Austria is not for the use of nuclear power, Austria is not for the use of nuclear energy!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16210	Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask you to roll back the transparency. Thank you. Mr Federal Minister, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16228	The position of the Austrian Federal Government is not a position of the ÖVP against the SPÖ or vice versa, but a common: Nuclear energy is not an option for us! Nuclear energy is not a sustainable form of energy generation, because it is completely unexplained where the nuclear waste comes from and the safety risks are too large. The ÖVP is not acting double-handed here, Mrs Klubobfrau, I would like to tell you this clearly, because the ÖVP also has a very clear position. For us, nuclear energy is not an option, neither for Austria nor for other regions. We'll talk to a tongue. Because you have here addressed the extension of the duration of the German nuclear power stations: I was the first to protest against the decision of a German Federal Government under a sister party, namely the German Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, yes!]] In doing so, I have achieved that the German Federal Government is speaking and replying under the bilateral nuclear information agreement Austria, just how the details of the decision are and what consequences this has. It was I who reached a unanimous decision in the Council of Ministers, in which we clearly, as the Austrian Federal Government, expressed our support for maximum transparency by the German side, maximum security for the Austrian population and an upgrade to nuclear power plants in the sense of safety technology, and that, if this does not happen – for example, Isar 1 – the reactor will be shut down. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Where is transparency?]] This is a very clear positioning, we are clear about that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] - That's the one point. If you are now saying that a infringement procedure against Germany would be under way, I will tell you: You can assume that we examine all legal questions, not only the experts of my house, but also the experts of the Federal Government. I can only remind you that the Federal Chancellor's Office is responsible for a infringement procedure, for a complaint and for the Federal Government as a whole. That is why we have a common position. We are examining all legal possibilities, even in connection with the extension of the term, whether at European level or at national level, and there is currently no legal title available, and on the other hand it does not end with it. We remain in contact with the German authorities and demand maximum security. This does not please them, especially not in Bavaria, but we are concerned with security for the Austrian population. The Isar 1 power plant is an old reactor that needs to be equipped with high safety technology. This is quite clear because it lies at the Isar and because, if something happens, the radioactive waters may come to Austria. That is why we have a fundamental interest in demanding maximum protection, and we are doing so. [[Abg. New builder:... be shut down!]] At the last climate conference in Cancún, it was also the concern of many countries in the world to include nuclear energy in the support programme for the JI/CDM programme, i.e. the programme, in which climate protection activities are supported. And it was Austria, together with other EU countries that prevented this. It was achieved as an important point in Cancún that nuclear energy will not be financially supported in the future under the JI/CDM programme. There's always a fight. You can assume that Austria and, in particular, I are very much committed to the fact that the use of nuclear energy does not increase. The fact is, however, that in the whole world and also in Europe, because of the increased energy hunger, the use of nuclear energy for many countries is simply an option, even though we are not pleased. That is why we are driving a different line in Austria and, in particular, I am. We are increasingly focusing on renewable energy sources. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, yes!]] We are one of the pioneer countries in the European Union with over 30 percent of renewable energy. The Germans are not that far off and most countries in the European Union are not. My goal is an energy-autarchy Austria, in which we generate energy completely in our own country. You can believe me that there are enough people who say: Well, we also drive in Austria with the option nuclear energy! I'm not doing this, and we're not doing it, and neither is the ÖVP. The renewable energy sources are a big point. We only achieve our goal of energy autarchy if we save energy, use energy efficiently and use all possibilities of renewable energy. But now the Euratom Treaty. A exit from Euratom, which you are promoting for Austria here, does not mean that there is less nuclear energy in Europe or in the world. So you're not reaching the effect you're suggesting here! [[Abg. New builder: It's not about...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] - That's the first point. The second point is the legal question. We do not stand behind the legal question. I'm just saying that it was legally audited by the Constitutional Service in the Federal Chancellor's Office, by the International Law Office at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They say that a solitaire withdrawal from an Euratom Treaty is not possible because it is only possible to leave the European Union as a whole. [[Abg. New builder: stupid!]] And I say, This is an option that does not come into question for the ÖVP – and not for the Federal Government, quite clearly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is no EU membership of à la carte, where I choose the raisins, just as this is suggested. Either I'm there or I'm not. That's the legal question. Now on the political question. And since, Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig, you mustn't put something in my mind, which is so wrong, because you suggest a lack of courage here on my part. This has nothing to do with courage, but with house sense and political reason. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Is that your eco-political understanding?]] I say: For political reasons too, it makes no sense to leave! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say it deliberately offensively, because in my many years of political experience, it makes sense to sit at the negotiating table. It is better to get something out for Austria than to stand in front of the door, not to be able to speak along and then have to execute decisions. This concerns the agricultural sector, where many farmers were skeptical of EU accession, and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But not for nuclear policy!]] There too, there is a case of misstepping, making conditions and not waiting outside the door, as is the case with Switzerland, for example, which then has to take over many things. But back to the Euratom Treaty. I think it's all right to say this, to say it, because you know what the consequence is? – If If we are to take Euratom decisions and if we are not theoretically involved, then our minister should go out of the Council of Ministers meeting and should not vote on them at European level as a member of the European Union. [[Abg. May. Brunner: What is the difference?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] This is unthinkable for me, because it is a matter of high safety standards for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should also like to mention that our work has also been a success in the context of Euratom, in the context of the cooperation we have had there. An example: The premature closure of various reactors of old construction, Soviet construction. As new candidates for the European Union, Austria has also been committed to closing unsafe reactors. Examples: Kosloduj in Bulgaria – closure, Bohunice in Slovakia – closure, Ignalina in Lithuania – closure. That was an effect of our Euratom membership! The second point concerns the high standards. Since Austria's accession to the EU, five directives have been amended which have led to a higher level of health protection with regard to the level of radiation protection. For the first time in Europe, we have uniform limit values for the level of radiation protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] For patients, for employees, for entrepreneurs, this has not been done before. This is a result of Euratom's work! The third point: In 2009, we adopted a directive on nuclear safety. This was a massive challenge for Austria, and Austria has also actively contributed to it. It is now the case that all Member States must set up a national supervisory authority, and that, when nuclear power plants are approved in the respective State, they must provide a single regulatory framework, for example an absolutely understandable authorisation procedure. This concerns the Slovaks, the Czechs, the Germans, the Spaniards, the Italians – everyone! It would also concern us if we were to rely on nuclear power, what we do not do, but they now have to make an comprehensible authorisation procedure. You need to set up enough competent staff. The population must be informed. There must be regular reports to the European Commission and this supervisory authority will be reviewed every 10 years. Basic principle: Security first! And this has been achieved by Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to two more points. The Joint Research Centre of the European Commission may only refer to safety aspects in nuclear energy research. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Exactly!]] This too has reached and demanded Austria! At the time, Austria threatened with Veto in 2006 – because you always mention that with the veto. That was before my time, that was my predecessor, because they said: We want nuclear energy research to relate only more to the safety aspects! That is what we have achieved in the context of Euratom. Finally, I come to the security control system. The core material will be subject to in-depth control at European level. That means every gram of uranium, every gram of plutonium is registered, is checked and therefore cannot be turned off or, what I know, used for any attacks, which is absolutely necessary in the sense of security. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We don't need it anyway!]] It becomes clear that we do not see an exit from Euratom as a political option and there is no meaning for it, but rather: Misstepping is important! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It also shows that we are not passive there. This was also true during the EU Presidency in 2006 when Austria opposed the draft of the 7th. Research framework programmes have voted. The programme was subsequently revised and since then the Joint Research Centre has been limited to carrying out only more safety research. Austria has always been active in this area. Nor is the colported contribution that we would save ourselves, because there is an EU total budget. You know very well that there is no confounded budget where we are paying a member's contribution to Euratom. That's not the case. Nor is it that the new construction of nuclear power plants is being promoted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] This is in no way the case, but on the contrary: It will be invested in security. And that is a point that is very important to us! Again: The crime is important! In conclusion: What we want – and this is also my view – is that we guarantee maximum security for the Austrian population. We can achieve this at the negotiating table. We have already moved a lot there, and we want to do that in the future. If Austria were not with Euratom, then an atomicist voice would be less in it, and that would be a shame because we could not move forward with this in Europe's opinion-building process. Therefore: Be there, take part in and talk and get maximum security for Austria! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16561	Mrs Mag. Brunner is now speaking. There are 10 minutes speaking time for all the speakers who are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16584	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister for Agriculture! High house! Dear Seers! Mr Minister for Agriculture, I would like to point out to you: The whole discussion is repeated. Their general rates are repeated, the discussions in the Committee on the Environment are repeated, and one repeats particularly often: Your permanent delays. There are several requests from the opposition parties for the withdrawal of Austria from Euratom, and the government parties have not considered it worth bringing these applications to the house here and addressing them publicly. There is a need for a special instrument of the Greens today, so that we can put this on the tapet. The government parties would prevent this discussion. I brought a transparency that we received from the initiators of popular desire. [[The speaker unplugged a transparency, saying: “People’s desire: Getting out of Euratom!”]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Oi-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This transparency has traveled far: through all Austria, on 100 summits, in all the federal states, in many municipalities and it has made it to Parliament up to now. Only if it had gone after you would the trip have ended here because you refused the discussion with these people. I think that this is actually the most important thing in this whole discussion, this dealings with people, those who have a nuclear policy, anti-atomic policy – and that is, I think, very, very many in Austria – is an important concern. Not even talking to these people about their concerns, I find that very worrying. This is an affront to those people who are very involved in their leisure time and take a lot of initiative, time and often money into their hands in order to bring nuclear policy back on the tape. It is also worrying – this is also from the ÖVP side, and this is now in the communities – that there is a letter from your Minister of the Interior to the congregations that they should not apply for this popular desire. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Incredible!]] Now it is already difficult for people to get involved here, and then there is another letter from the government parties that sets stones in their way again. So this is not dealing with committed citizens. You have to make this accusation happen here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] In Austria, there is a broad anti-atomic consensus and Austria is a member of a contract with the following objective: It states in the preamble that the “nuclear energy is an essential source of aid for the development and recovery of the economy” and that one is “decided” to“ create the conditions for the development of a powerful nuclear industry”. That is exactly what it is all about in Euratom to create a powerful nuclear industry, not about security, research or whatever. These things happen, but de facto it is about supporting the nuclear industry. The goal of also somehow achieving security of supply, getting to grips with the waste problem – all this has failed and Euratom has lost all its right to do so. There was also the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community. This agreement expires after 50 years, because it is no longer sustainable technology, there are no sources of energy to be used in Europe. It is still being done in Euratom. Euratom is anything but forward-looking. Nuclear energy is a safety risk. The problem of storage has not been solved in any way and security of supply cannot be guaranteed by this technology either. We have heard of you now general records and nothing concrete again. It's very possible to leave. There are now various legal opinions. You are always quoting one, a alleged opinion, which we have also discussed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection last week, but which you have not made available to us. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We'll get it!]] I'm surprised because you're also the client of this report. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: As the Schelm thinks he is!]] I have a letter from the Federal Chancellor's Office from the Constitutional Service, which puts the word "certificate" under quotes, because it is merely an internal implementation of the Constitutional Service, which was prepared jointly with the International Office of the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. And I am very surprised now, Minister of Agriculture, if you tell us in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that you cannot give us this opinion because you do not have it at your disposal. But they themselves are the client of this opinion. – So who, please, can provide an opinion if not the client? I would ask you to make this opinion available to all the parliamentary parties, to publish it so that the people can actually take a picture of what is going on here and what “results” – as said: under quotation marks – are based on your denial of the Euratom exit. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Misstep was an important keyword with you. Any missteps at all? Or in what form? – It has already been mentioned, as Austria has said here. Austria has agreed to triple the research budget. I am pleased that now RWE Supervisory Board Wolfgang Schüssel is at once here at an atomic discussion. In your role as Federal Chancellor, you have agreed that nuclear technology is classified as low-carbon technology. This is precisely the point that we have to deal with today, which you have also mentioned, Mr Minister for Agriculture. [[Abg. Amon: Environment Minister, please!]] Nuclear energy, the nuclear industry is looking for a loophole in climate technology, would like to be recognized as a climate protection policy. Among other things, we owe this to Wolfgang Schüssel, who has committed herself to being recognized as a low-carbon technology. Your You have obviously received compensation by being at RWE now. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake. Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] We are still fighting for nuclear power to come out of climate protection. It has also been mentioned – also for you, Minister – that the appearance in Euratom was not so glorious. They have agreed to a security directive that does not deserve its name. The population is suggested that there are uniform safety standards in the EU for nuclear power. De facto it is completely harmless and is used by the nuclear industry as an advertising instrument. You have also mentioned the obligation to notify, i.e. the extension of the term in Germany. Greenpeace has published a study that shows that Germany would have had an obligation to notify Euratom members. They have not used this to counter it accordingly. Here again: Misstepping has not really been done by the Austrian Federal Government and therefore I see no reason at all why we should continue to remain in this nuclear promotion contract. You have spoken about transparency, Minister. Transparency is important. Just as I said, the opinion is not available to us. I have only received a letter from your ministry this week that you do not want to involve the environmental spokespersons of the parties in the talks with Germany. I find that very worrying. On the question of further payment: As I said, this is a matter of negotiation. If you want to give up before, give up! The British have negotiated a discount. If we leave – and that is what we can say, we should not even have occurred – then if we want to, we can very well negotiate that we pay less for the amount of accession. The finding that everything is only used for safety and research is a fairy tale. A maximum of 2 per cent of Euratom funds are spent on the investigation of waste disposals. I really do not see why public funds should be used to finance the problems of the nuclear industry. The nuclear industry makes big profits, its supervisory boards make fat profits. I do not see why the public hand should stand up for its problems. The polluter principle must apply, even if one or the other Supervisory Board has a little less profit. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grillic: Very hesitant applause!]] You have said that for many countries nuclear energy is an option. But that would be exactly the task for Austria! They now praise us for our share of renewable energy, which has stagnated for years, because here there is complete blockade, deep sleep. If we put it before and put it on renewable energy, the € 40 to 50 million that we are now... – Yes, please, that's crazy! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Renewable energy is growing! What are you saying?- Oh, my God!]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: She's growing! ... in Europe! What are you saying?- Oh, my God!]] Since 2006, we have a “ecostrom blockade law”. All European countries have a better eco electricity law than Austria. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] They will not trust the eco electricity industry in Austria to claim that we have a super funding regime. That's what I'm looking at, Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] There's something you could put forward and help other countries. They had long since been able to seek alliances, but they must have been able to prevent nuclear exodus at European level. [[Call:Bulgaria]] You didn't. That's why the people now have to decide that we're finally going out of there. And I am absolutely of the opinion that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed environmental ministry.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16822	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16843	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the concerns of the population must definitely be taken seriously. That's not a question at all. And the concerns about nuclear power plants are justified. I can still get very good at this 26. ==References== Wolfgang Katzian and I were together on the Youth Union Day of the GPA. Two days later my written Matura started, two days later I got my 18. It was a birthday. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Many young people at the time wondered if it made sense to make Matura even more so in view of the radioactive fallout to be expected and in view of the fact that it was not yet clear what was going to happen at that time. [[Abg. Scheibner: But only in your circles did you think so! You didn't do that with us!]] As I said, the concerns are justified. Consensus on anti-atomic policy, which prevails in Austria, is self-evident. He's not just a consensus that's somehow cool ash – I think. It's a consensus that really works on. Only yesterday at the SPÖ Club meeting did the Federal Chancellor report about it – because it is always the subject of us – as it is becoming more and more difficult to find allies in the area of the European Union on this issue of anti-atomic policy, to see that something is going on and the subject continues to be put on the agenda. I think many of you who are committed to this question will have similar experiences to me. I constantly and time and time again, for example, discuss with French colleagues, no matter which political groups, whether nuclear power is not really a sustainable energy. – No, of course not! I constantly discuss with colleagues from most neighbouring countries about the fact that it is a great opportunity to force another technology in times of climate change, climate warming. – No, it certainly is not! I have just talked to Polish Members about this, who really put all their hope in the future of nuclear power and believe that it is a very easy way to go and that the cheap and safe energy would only fall into their lap. - No, she won't! We agree that nuclear power plants are not sustainable technologies that are not sustainable energy. We know she's expensive, she's very expensive. If you count it on the lifetime of nuclear waste, there is probably no more expensive energy than nuclear energy at all. It is dangerous, and the final storage is still unexplained. On the question of the withdrawal options from Euratom, we know that there are such and such opinions. There are opinions that are legally of the opinion that it is possible to leave Euratom alone. There are a majority of opinions that believe that it is not possible to leave. This majority of opinions are based, inter alia, on the fact that the European Union is an administrative unit with a single institutional framework and a common budget, a central budget. On the one hand, it is not possible to say: This part of our money, which we pay to the EU, is for Euratom, just as we cannot say, this part is for agriculture, is for regional policy or whatever. I'd think of a lot of what I'm saying: All right, we'd rather not pay for this area in the European Union, it doesn't really fit us politically! - Just, that's not possible. If some of the parties – and I am already here – really are about leaving the EU in general – such as your party, Mr Hofer! – then don’t take a popular desire! [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Like the SPÖ Burgenland!]] Don't take those people who are entitled to worry and don't pretend you were just leaving Euratom! It is your concern that you want to leave the EU. [[Abg. Kickl: Is the SPÖ Burgenland still yours? Are they still part of that?]] Getting out of Euratom is just getting out of the EU. That's what you really want. But to gather the people who are now running for a thing that they think is right and important, I think is actually quite bad politically. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Apart from the pragmatic question, whether it is possible to leave theoretically or not, which I do not believe for the reasons given – if the case were, it would be possible – the question arises, in spite of everything: Is it politically sensible to leave? Does it make sense to continue paying contributions and not to be able to talk with them any more? Does it make sense to pay for things with our taxpayers, with our money, that we no longer have a say at all? That's what I'm saying, it certainly doesn't make sense. It's not politically intelligent. It is true that we are obviously in the European Union in our position on nuclear energy in quite a single position. We are quite alone callers in the desert, the allies become less and less. The consequence of this is to draw and say: Well, then I go, then I move back and do nothing more and put the head in the sand!, probably not necessarily an intelligent position. Among other things, I share this position with Greenpeace, which clearly says: Well, if you look at where you can really do something at European level against nuclear projects that we do not want, then unfortunately this is just Euratom! It's all better, says Greenpeace, to stay inside – just read what Niklas Schinerl of Greenpeace says! – and in Euratom, to try to prevent any projects that are super expensive and not future-oriented with our voice, to continue paying, to get out and simply to watch how it happens. [[Abg. May. Brunner:... Greenpeace not...!]] This is not an active anti-atomic policy, quite the contrary. Addressed to the opposition party – I know I was part of an opposition party myself –: As an opposition party, one is not always a majority with its views, and one cannot always prevail. But the question is: What consequence do I draw from it? Do I leave Parliament? I say, okay, I'm not part of this republic anymore, just because I'm not going through? – This is probably not the right approach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What we need to do is recast this Euratom Treaty. It's so easy to say. Even if we're trying to do this: It is not easy because it requires a consensus, a majority to re-establish this contract. Even if we managed to find this majority and re-establish it, it would not have been said for a long time that what we want is really to do. What we want is clear: We want an extension of the purpose of protection and an elimination of this purpose. We want real competitiveness and equality of competition for nuclear power, which currently enjoys high, high advantages over others, such as renewable energy. We want the European Parliament to have the opportunity to participate in Euratom as well. We want to put it on more democratic feet. There is currently no majority in favour of such a policy. But the good thing about our being in Euratom is, I think, that, although the trend is quite contrary to what I have said now, what we want in Austria is going on, at least because of the principle of unanimity, we have the opportunity to prevent the flash, exactly the opposite. I think that alone is one more reason to really stay inside. We know that the majority of the Euratom budget goes in four areas: research, basic research – this is problematic – on the one hand, nuclear safety improvement, financial support for nuclear power stations and fourth security controls on the other. I think the second, third and fourth points are undisputed. The aim is to move the financial resources from the first point of view, from basic research and to the other three points of safety. Unfortunately, it is not just the question of security. Unfortunately, research is also really in place right now. In order to bring in movement to rework the means, we will have to try to articulate ourselves. And that'll only go if we're inside. I think the Austrian position should be – and it is probably also often – that we insist that there is only one meaningful nuclear power station: That's the sun. It has an adequate safety distance to the Earth. Not too much can happen, at least in the medium term. Using this sun as a huge nuclear power plant is – I believe – the challenge of the future. A further comment on the issue of the extension of the term in Germany: I really hope very much for the SPD and also for the Greens in Germany that these will be much closer to being able to bring down these extension periods, which the crushing black and yellow German government has decided to bring down. The question of the non-integration of the Federal Council into a legislation which is very likely to affect the countries of Germany seems to be a very critical issue. I hope that our friends in Germany will soon be really successful and will be tipping off the lead-time extensions of the German nuclear power stations. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16945	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16966	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not always agree with Mrs Bayr. But in terms of nuclear policy, I am now in broad measure – not with regard to red-green hopes for the future in Germany, because, Mrs. Collaborine, I myself experienced red-green in Germany in the first version, and there Austria was often enough against very, very concrete pro-atom positions of Schröder and Fischer on the road. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayer]] I still have that in good memory. But as I said, In many ways you are right, that is, in the knowledge that Austria – and that is different from five or ten years ago, ladies and gentlemen – is quite alone on further corridors with such an anti-atomic policy. They said not to put the head in the sand like the famous bird ostrich. – In all of this you are absolutely right. It is now important to draw the right conclusions and ask: Is this the basis, we want to get out of the Euratom Treaty, or not? It has been sufficiently explained by Minister Berlakovich and others: We can't do that by law. It was only in agreement. There are opinions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] – Ms. Glavischnig and dear Greens, you have been given this opinion in 2008 in its basic version! Little has changed. Nothing is kept secret. Mrs Bayr also said quite correctly that we would not save ourselves a cent/no euro because there is an EU total budget. To say, €22 million is our Euratom contribution, and we will not pay it in the future, either. Stay the key question, my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen and High House: Does it make any sense, at all, to want out of this Euratom Treaty or not? In one, I agree with Mrs Glavischnig: It would be useful to reform this Euratom Treaty in a timely manner. Yes, it was something different in 1957 than today with regard to the participation of the European Parliament. He is undemocratic in this sense. It was perhaps the position towards nuclear energy in 1957 compared to the year 2011 of perhaps indifferent, certainly indifferent and not so much marked by expertise. That's where I agree with you. But what remains then is also the realization of political facts. Do we have a majority for that? Mrs Bayr said: No, we don't! Is it unanimously to convene an Intergovernmental Conference? If there is the possibility – provided that we are doing such an intergovernmental conference – to reach unanimity there? – Certainly not, because, as Mrs Colleague Bayr rightly said, French and Polish and other Members – no matter what couleur – are quite clear about the opinion, nuclear power is a technology that needs to be dealt with in the future. That too is part of a certain professional policy that you realize what is going on around you. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, even Mrs Glawischnig has spoken about what is being invested in nuclear energy around us. In Germany, it is only about not investing and perhaps delaying this, and elsewhere is invested. Mrs. Glavischnig, you said: If it were not for the Euratom Treaty, Europe would have been free of nuclear energy long ago after a doctrine by a former Social Democratic Chancellor. I'm not as optimistic as you are that this would have been the case. With permission: In America, in China, in Russia, in Japan and, and, everywhere, in nuclear energy is invested. This is not just a European mainstream. Looks like: Euratom has very little to do with it. On the issue of climate protection/CO2-neutral technology: Yes, we Austrians believe that nuclear energy is not a sustainable form of energy generation. We don't want that. We defend ourselves with hands and feet and, as a rule, very successfully against this in European decisions. But the others are different. One thing is already mentioned on the day of a Libya debate and North Africa debate in the House: My reigns, we keep in mind, the alternative to nuclear energy are renewable energies, but in the coming decades, of course, fossil energy sources are not only coal, but in particular gas and oil! That should be allowed on a day like today to point out that this is not so uncritical either. It does not only concern Libya, but as well as all the deposits of considerable resources in terms of gas and oil are politically sensitive and give us some thought to think: Sometimes they turn off the gas, sometimes there are these catastrophic developments elsewhere, as in Libya. Who knows what else is going on in the Arab world? So far, dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Let's stay at the bottom of reality! Let us be glad that we have made our opinion into a mainstream in Europe, namely that each Member State has to decide on its energy mix, its type of energy generation itself! No one from outside can force us into nuclear power. At the same time, however, we should be realistic enough to see that we cannot now require 26 other EU Member States to refrain from nuclear power. We want to get a maximum of security. And here, of course, the Euratom Treaty is the most reliable vehicle, namely that we are there, can speak with the others and say: Friends, a maximum of security, that is not only in ours, but also in your interest! Well, do a nice job. I am somewhat uncertain, Mr Bundeskanzler – and I ask for clarification from the government partner – as regards positions of individual country politicians. If city councillors from Vienna or state leaders from Burgenland think they are signing this popular desire to withdraw from the Euratom Treaty, I would ask for a little information in this direction that this is not legally possible and is not useful politically. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... ÖVP resolution on this!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17024	Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17045	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! Each of us is thinking before he comes to the speaker's desk, what he will say, makes a speech concept, some read down, some speak freely. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: – on a sticker on the speaker’s sacco with the inscription “No to Atomic Energy – We sign that! 28. ==References== Or what he picks on his jacket!]] I have decided to leave my speech concept behind and – unfortunately, Mrs Bayr is not here now, but nevertheless – as Mrs Bayr has given such an excellent speech, simply instead of reading a speech from the press service of SPÖ from Burgenland. This is certainly also interesting for you. ‘Eisenstadt, 26. January 2010. – At today’s Landtagssession, an application for the immediate exit of Austria from the Euratom Treaty was decided by the SPÖ’s votes.’ [[Congratulations to Mr Neubauer and Dr Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Ah!]] I quote: "Austria has been sponsoring the nuclear lobby for years with millions of taxpayers – these funds are lacking in the expansion of renewable energy. Therefore, we are clearly in favour of the immediate withdrawal of Austria from the Euratom Treaty – without Wenn and Aber!’, said SPÖ-Klubobmann Christian Illedits.” [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] Now I have to close this window that's opened here, otherwise I can't read the press release. [[the speaker reads the quote from his laptop]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Window? Which window?]] Then it goes on to say: ‘The ‘no’ of the ÖVP [...] cannot be understood by SPÖ politicians: The Euratom Treaty has only one objective: to increase nuclear power. We are promoting what hurts us – it is certainly not in the sense of the Burgenländers that their tax money is handled in this way. The ÖVP is in need of explanation, but the People’s Party in Vorarlberg has unfailingly expressed its support for an Euratom exit.”“So also in Vorarlberg, ÖVP has expressed its support for an exit. It goes further in this direction: “Already in 2007” – the SPÖ praises itself – “the SPÖ Burgenland has submitted an application for the Euratom exit, thus taking on a pioneering role throughout Austria. .Only the ÖVP – under the aegis of the Environment Council and today's Environment Minister Nikolaus Berlakovich – voted against. Unfortunately, the innumerable commitment of the Minister for the Environment to eco-energy and environmental protection, as one knows from his advertising campaigns, does not follow. Berlakovich must finally act in the sense of all Austrians and drive the exit of Austria from the Euratom Treaty!' said the SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ Environment Spokesman, who has now grown, has explained on the basis of some arguments why the opposition is so evil, she thinks she does not know herself, and exactly the same arguments come from her own national parties. That is why we are not surprised that today the Minister for the Environment, Berlakovich, has taken a stand for the government and not the Federal Chancellor, who would be in charge. You can't! He cannot, the “Kronen Zeitung” does not want the SPÖ to be strong against the exit from the Euratom Treaty, so he is sitting next to it and watching, ladies and gentlemen! [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] I just heard you murmured in the background something quiet. I would ask you, Federal Chancellor: If you have a little mum in your bones, stand up and give an opinion on the Euratom Treaty! I bet you won't have the courage to sit down and keep silent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17149	Next, Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber – no, excuse me, Mr Mag. Widmann to speak. I'll set the clock up to 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17181	High house! Madam President, today I am a little disadvantaged at your requests. In this context, allow me to say briefly at the beginning: In the scientific debate four parties were able to express their opinion before 3 p.m., and of course the Minister also has the right to give an opinion. But it is a pity that the BZÖ will be deprived of this right and will not be able to deliver opinions until hours later. I would ask you to act on the members of the government to allow a round in the future with a representative of all political groups and then let the member of the government speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17202	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to step in immediately. The Rules of Procedure are clearly on this issue. If you want to change the Rules of Procedure, you have to change the Rules of Procedure. Please, you're speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17220	Thank you, Madam President, but I too must intervene immediately. I asked you to write a letter to make it possible. This has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. [[President Mag. Prammer: Of course!]] I know that the Rules of Procedure provide for this in principle, but it is also for the Ministers to refrain from speaking and wait for the end of the first round. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: We don't have a monarchy!]] The possibility exists, Mr Cap. That is also part of democracy in this House. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No, the Rules of Procedure are part of democracy!]] The Euratom debate. Ladies and gentlemen! Would you pay car tax even though you don't have a car? Austria pays for nuclear power very well! We pay nuclear tax, although we do not have nuclear power. That's nice, but it's a big sum we pay for it, and that's actually a shame for this government. I have listened very carefully to what has been done here in terms of contributions to debate. It's always the same. There is nothing new, there is no courage to get out of Euratom, and there is no new legal basis either. You just don't want to, and I'm gonna figure it out a little bit. It is a shame for this government not to do anything, just to pay and not to support democracy – I say – accordingly. The aim must be that this party-free popular desire should ultimately result in a popular survey, and I am excited whether the government will take the voice of the people seriously as well. Fact is – that has already been said –: 190 municipalities, all days of land support this “Raus from Euratom!” And Mr Bartenstein comes here to the speaker's desk and says, well, there's someone who has voted. – I ask you: Is the ÖVP in the Upper Austrian Landtag or in the Styria or in Vienna or in Carinthia another than the Federal ÖVP? The same question applies to SPÖ: Who else is against the exit from Euratom? – On the other hand, only the Federal leaders of the ÖVP and the Federal Summit of SPÖ are only the basis. Your councils, your representatives, your government members in the country days outside want to get out of Euratom! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think that 30 years after the No on nuclear energy use in Zwentendorf, one should also support this approach accordingly. There are a large number of parliamentary initiatives, requests and also requests to enable them. Maybe as a little help: 78 percent of citizens also want to get out of Euratom. However, the government remains – I heard it today – and it cannot be changed. But they have written great records into the Government Convention: We want to further develop the contract. – How do you want to do this, Mr. Cap? How's it going? The Treaty is to be amended unanimously with the countries which also operate nuclear power plants. So that's what I'm looking at! Nothing you will change, not even an addition you will change, because it is not at all possible and because you lack the mumm to finally take legal action! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the contrary, you even look at how even more money flows in there. In 2007, the research programme was tripled, the costs for ITER, for a research reactor – which is perhaps still critically positive – almost explode, and you put our taxpayers in there. I'll tell you: We've paid enough for Euratom! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from BZÖ have so far been very involved in the Euratom question, also in the TemelÃn question. I've been an anti-temelÃn fighter for 25 years, together with Uschi Haubner from Upper Austria. We have made many requests, at the base, we support the Euratom people's desire on our homepage. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What is the result?]] The result is the failure of this federal government. This is quite simple, Mr Cap, you are just about to waste the majority you still have. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Ah, that's easy! They were themselves in the Federal Government! Were you not in the Federal Government?]] This will and will have to come, because these insanity agreements, according to which we only pay towards Brussels, are completely useless. [[OBJECTIVES]] That's how the citizen sees it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Six years you were in the Federal Government!]] I must also say one thing to the Greens I support in principle on this question: Mrs Glawischnig, if you make an issue today and use it as a third for trying to put the BZO down as if it were no longer supporting an Euratom exit, then you are completely wrong with that! This proves that requests, requests, the proof of Ursula Haubner and I as the first signatory to the launch of popular desire, are evidenced by many officials. So, please, stop with this pot, that just doesn't correspond to the facts! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Okay, I'll take it back!]] One more thing, Mrs Glawischnig: The reason for the request is that this Euratom popular desire is a party-free popular desire. They are standing here today with a plastic poster, with the party logo of the Greens, and have made a mood for it. I'm just saying that. The BZÖ has taken over the party-free jute poster created by the initiators themselves! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I almost can't break it: We remember the 17th century. In June 2010, Mr Cap, to the European Council. In the run-up to this, there was an EU main committee meeting. At the time, the BZÖ requested that this report, namely the conclusions for the Europe 2030 project, not be accepted. – You have, of course, agreed to by the SPÖ and also by the ÖVP, and, Mrs Glawischnig, the Greens have also agreed. We wanted to change that. You know what's in there? – It says that the search for a more viable energy mix must include the use of nuclear energy. - So per atom power! Europe cannot afford to abandon this important source of energy. Mrs Glavischnig, why do you support this? Only the FPÖ and the BZÖ have rejected this! [[BZÖ and Abg. New builder.]] To the much quoted ominous opinion of the Federal Chancellery. – Mr Bundeskanzler, put an end to the ghost! You're behind me, behind my mouth, you're behind me: [[Calls: Sitting]] Finally, give out the opinion! It has often been called upon by the opposition in the Committee on the Environment, until today we have not received it. Put the opinion on the table, because there are many others, from clergy to reds, who say: A Euratom exit is quite possible and possible if you just want it! Mr Berlakovich, you said in committee that it is not a legal question, but you have specified that it is a political question whether you want it or not. Therefore, I must say that this Federal Government does not want to get out of Euratom at all, it wants to stay there, it wants to pay much more money to Euratom, and does not say: Enough paid! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is always witty to hear that participation, information is the talk. What rights of participation do we have in Euratom? I would like to know at which session what concrete measures have been taken for Austria. - You won't be able to call me one, because there's no one. What you have listed, Mr Minister, can also be arranged within the EU, but you don't need Euratom, for that you don't have to pay a sum. That is, the question of participation is a purely rhetorical, but not a matter of content. Consider, for example, the TemelÃn Agreement, the Milker Agreement. What happened? – We are still waiting in Upper Austria for the 28.8 meter stage to be made sure that the valves meet appropriate safety standards. They don't fulfill them until today! These agreements are null and void, they are not worth anything. This is, in principle, a declaration of bankruptcy by this government, which, on many issues of nuclear policy that have been addressed today, has not, but has not, at all, continued from Isar to TemelÃn to Euratom, to the extension of the duration of the German nuclear power plants. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now I also finally know how the savings policy of this Federal Government works. A few years ago, the SPÖ spoke of €40 million in the cost of Euratom. Today or yesterday, the ÖVP Environment Minister explains to us that it is only 22 million, although the research budget has tripled, although the ITER costs have exploded. - How's that going, please? Six, seven years ago 40 million, now 22 million?- Oh, my God! Should we really believe that? I think that's the only club the government doesn't know what it's paying for. The next theme is already on the table, Chernobyl, the renovation of the “Sarcophagus”. You may have followed it: There is a lack of a few hundred million euros, and we think again about carrying these costs together. I am excited what the Europeans will say when they have to pay for the "Sarcophagus" in Chernobyl about EU contributions. This is also a change in the end. In fact, the polluter principle must apply, and this must be implemented across Europe. The question of research has been raised. It is also argued with Euratom in this area. The problem of storage is unsolved and remains unresolved. The uranium deposits are finally. The production of uranium causes CO2, which we all know. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That is to say, there are still many things to say, unfortunately, time is too short – we really need an investigation committee to clarify the role of this government in order to explore the role of bowls and cast builders in order to question why nuclear policy is not going on, why this government is completely failing to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17439	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17460	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen on the government bank! Federal Chancellor! Mr Environment Minister, it is really dramatic in itself if you act as an Environment Minister as today and mention the European agricultural policy in a breath with European nuclear policy and so to speak put it at the same level. [[Call the ÖVP: The Greens?]] That's so incredible, I've never heard of a politician in this country. I have to tell you honestly, Minister of State, for me you are totally unbelievable on this question. Finally, turn off the environment! This is the demand you have to address, because your courage is a single disappointment for all those in Austria – and these are many citizens – who have been volunteering and active for a nuclear-free empire for years and who also wish to have an alternative across borders, an alternative to a real future, into a future for Europe that we can all wish for together. It is incredible that on the one hand you speak for the Austrian Energy Authority and on the other hand today you have seriously claimed: No, the exit from Euratom is not the right step! You said: On the contrary! – Yes, what does “on the contrary” mean? – More Euratom Treaty? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] What does that mean, Mr. Federal Minister? Is that even more Euratom? So I'm really surprised and very disappointed, I have to say. The second thing that frightens me is that a minister has commissioned an opinion at the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service – that's all right, that's a legitimate way of ensuring legal certainty – and then refuses to present this opinion to us in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, saying that we should get it where it was created, namely to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. New builder: I was there!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Can you explain that you get the opinion? Is that possible? There's no such thing as that!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you are here today, and that is a good thing, because I really ask you to do so as a matter of chief importance so that the Minister can finally fulfil his obligations, namely to speak and answer Parliament and to inform the honourable Member accordingly. It is now your business, Federal Chancellor, to ensure that all Members of this House receive this opinion in the next few hours, in any case before the end of the registration period. This is only right and cheap to those citizens who are now at the municipal offices and who are there signing a nuclear-free Austria, for a nuclear-free future in Europe. It can't be that a minister who has environmental responsibility refuses to do so and here again today says: I'm so active, so diligent, we've made everything possible. I was the first to criticize Germany!, the Minister for the Environment said. Now to Mrs Bayr's comments. She should read everything out when she quotes Greenpeace. In today's "standard", Greenpeace's criticism is precisely on this matter to you, to read Mr. Environment Minister, stout and clear – and I am now quoting from the "standard": The Greenpeace environmental protection organisation, however, criticized the inactionlessness of the government in connection with the German RKW extension. There has been the possibility to lodge a complaint with the EU Commission as Germany has violated its notification obligation. Greenpeace has similar legal opinions. Minister for the Environment Berlakovich lies in the sleep of thorns in nuclear policy instead of acting against the nearby nuclear power plants. - Quote. A very correct analysis, ladies and gentlemen, to read today in the “standard”. The Minister for the Environment is here today and tells us again how great he is not working. - That's absurdity. That's not how you can work, Minister of State! Go inside, finally take the criticism seriously, finally take courageous steps in Europe! If the ÖVP or Mr Exbundeskanzler Schüssel is not even courageous and capable of speaking here today and finally telling the public why he is sitting in a Supervisory Board of an atomic lobbyist, a nuclear group in Europe, referring money to it, not little while at the same time listening to this Parliament and having to speak and answer the Austrian people, then, please, the credibility in politics with regard to the ÖVP finally ceases. At the national level – that is already said here, and this is the case in all federal states, whether there is red governance or whether the ÖVP has the say – there are enough resolutions; we have heard it from the previous speakers. – What is this democracy, ladies and gentlemen? What is it for a democracy when the Federal Environment Minister says that he is not interested in everything, if he himself is not interested in all the days of the country in Austria: Get out of Euratom!Unknown term type: "%s".? Ladies and gentlemen, it is probably necessary to bring about a genuine referendum, because the Austrian people have a clear opinion. 81 percent refuse payments, 78 percent are currently demanding an exit. I hope that many people will participate in this popular desire. Finally, I would like to remind you of our proposal today. That's a nail sample for you. Voices You agree to a referendum, submit the relevant legal measures! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17532	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17553	Madam President. High house! It is true that in social democracy the question of nuclear energy had historically very different positions. When the current Chancellor and I were with the socialist youth, we were with those who fought with Freda Meissner-Blue, Paul Blau and others. Elmar Mayer, who is sitting here as Vorarlberg MP, was then the chairman of the Vorarlberger Young Socialists, and at that time we have achieved that in the referendum to Zwentendorf there was a close majority. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This then became a majority position in social democracy and, ultimately, basic consensus – and that has not changed to date. I do not need to speak for as long as my previous speakers, who have been very competent and, as I believe, also very cleverly - as I am now almost no one who has been illuminated on any side - which are the difficulties we are facing now as a member of the European Union, as a member of Euratom. As you know, in 2004 there was a very smart initiative. – At that time we were in opposition, but it wasn’t all bad what the then government did. [[Reciprocity of the speaker]] Five of the 25 Member States of the European Union, Austria, Germany, Sweden, Hungary and Ireland, then issued a declaration on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, calling for the earliest possible convening of a revision conference on the Euratom Treaty, and this was also incorporated into the Lisbon Treaty. This is a very realistic perspective from the procedural point of view. It is necessary, if this is to be called up or changed, to have a majority of the Member States – 14 Member States are now needed – and if this conference takes place, it is not yet clear how the conference is going to take place. – This is a realistic perspective. [[Abg. May. Brunner: That's right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... but try it!]] To the other perspective that is now described: I see these country decisions, these initiatives and all those who work for them, more than a kind of manifestation. In Austria, we want to declare that the idea of the struggle for nuclear energy is present and that we can still count on the whole, very large majority of the population. But all those who are in the leadership positions of these initiatives, whether in the country days or in the organizations, know that one of the possibilities is the perspective of this revision conference. The other legal possibility is to conduct extra negotiations with 26 Member States of the European Union, and if each of the 26 agrees that we want to leave, they have to make 26 more ratifications. – So if you are half realistic about how the opinion-forming process is, I can tell you now that it is actually illusory. The other option is simply to leave the European Union, then you are also from Euratom outside. If I now assume that no one here wants to leave the European Union, then only the first two variants remain. One is the perspective of a revision conference. There has now been some change. When I think of Germany or Italy, I have to say that it has become more difficult for majority formation to take place within the perspective of a revision conference, and I do not want to tell myself how it works when we start negotiating with 26 Member States whether we or others are going to say goodbye. What else would be a possibility: I'm just... I'm just... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I don't think that we're giving each other support under nuclear opponents – yes, maybe there's a few advocates inside here as well –, one doesn't mean it's honest or one somehow wants to leave the way. [[Abg. May. Brunner: (to the government bank point out) The... not so!]] A variant would naturally be to consider a European plebiscitary initiative – but we must be careful, because primary law cannot be changed, as we know – to try to put the question of subsidies for nuclear energy under curate, because then nuclear energy as a electricity supplier is no longer economically interesting. That would be a way of rooting it out. In addition, such a citizens' initiative could generate the necessary awareness in the European population to support this. A second variant with a plebiscitary perspective: One can also raise the security requirements so that they are so high that it can no longer be financed. This would also be a way of spreading sand into the nuclear lobby at European level, which, of course, is now taking advantage of the crisis in the Oil producing countries come and say: After hello? Dangerous? It's getting tighter with oil and natural gas, and you don't know who you can rely on anymore. In the justified criticism of climate change and in the overwriting of the associated climate protection argumentation, the atomic lobby has a second level to stand for a renaissance of nuclear energy. The third line of argument has always followed them, within Euratom, to say: Let us now improve safety – improve, improve, improve – and the safest nuclear power plant is the latest nuclear power plant, which is the most secure. – This is the first line of argument, the baseline that is always contained. No one here in the hall claims that Euratom is an instrument of the international anti-atomic movement. – No one has said that yet, in that we are completely in agreement. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That is not to be ruled out!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: (on Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich clearly) But it was him who...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Is that discussed?]] - No, the Minister didn't say that either. An instrument for the anti-atomic movement is not Euratom. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... Minister of Environment! We may be discussing this constructively in committee.]] But if one says, for example, that one makes a European plebiscitary movement, where one opposes both subsidies and safety standards, which are hardly eligible for funding for the nuclear lobby, then of course it can be useful to accompany this as a member country of Euratom and argue it there. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: (new to Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich clearly) But he is not even willing to discuss it!]] Knowing the possibilities that exist, I would ask the following speakers to address them, because it only makes sense to describe and describe the concrete steps on this basis. Peter Pilz was also opposed to nuclear energy at the time. I can confirm this in writing, that's right. But at least it is about describing this in concrete terms, creating awareness of it, and limiting oneself to what these collections of signatures actually are, namely, a manifesto. But to say here, if we just want to, we're outside and that's it, is an insatiable communication, which – and there was Greenpeace right yesterday when they said that – only leads to frustrations and disappointments, because one announces something in the final effect and considers something to be realizable, which in reality is not feasible. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: However, it cannot be a refusal to discuss!]] [[Abg. May. Brunner: The popular desire is not ready to discuss publicly!]] – No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] They're all sitting there today. - Please don't. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we will have a lot of time to talk about this here in the House. I only advocate that all of us, together and some of us, have gone side by side long ago and especially against Zwentendorf, continue this path and seek the smartest way to spit the nuclear lobby in Europe properly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17760	Mr Hornek has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17782	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: How was your wife? Say something!]] If anyone deals with the Euratom Treaty, he has my full support. The current form of the Euratom Treaty must be fully reformed in the sense of Austrian interests. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to reform this Euratom Treaty in the sense of Austrian interests, you must be a contracting partner. We wish, first of all, that we can achieve better safety standards for existing nuclear power plants – and many of them surround us in our neighbouring countries – and secondly we reject the promotion of nuclear energy in principle, because there is a distortion of competition between our renewable energy sources. Ladies and gentlemen, nuclear energy is obviously rejected by me and by most of the Austrian population because of non-calculated risks. From an Austrian point of view, nuclear energy cannot be reconciled with the principles of sustainable development and therefore not a cost-effective and sustainable option to combat the greenhouse effect. In the course of the discussions at European level, our Federal Minister Berlakovich has achieved that nuclear energy is not considered sustainable. One point that is very important to me personally is that, due to Austrian efforts, nuclear energy has no place in the flexible instruments of the Kyoto Protocol. Ladies and gentlemen, national energy policy concerns are in principle a matter of national decision. Since we do not see nuclear energy as an option for energy generation, we must continue consistently the Austrian path, which was very successful in international comparison. That means more energy efficiency. I would point out that an amount of €100 million has been decided recently in the context of environmental support for the domestic sector, so that much more intensive thermal insulation measures and energy efficiency improvements can be put in place in the private sector and in the case of businesses. My Dear Ones However, ladies and gentlemen, I also see it as a command of the hour to increase energy efficiency and at the same time to force renewable energy from home – also due to the events especially in the Arab region in recent days. This has to give us thinking, and we need to increase our efforts. I am particularly pleased to see the initiative of the Climate and Energy Fund, which aims to implement energy-authoristic model regions, in order to provide practical examples of understanding such models. I am particularly pleased that the communities of my home region have already joined forces 20 years ago and have occupied an independent energy consulting facility with experts to assist the population and the communities and other public institutions with objective advice. This has made many biomass heating plants realize that money remains in the region and is implemented there, that there has been a new way of thinking and a new course of action, and that projects that we did not believe in 20 years ago have developed. Today, we can point out that the largest wind turbine operator in Central Europe is a forest-fourth company, and I am very proud of that. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In the forest district, you can also understand in the truest sense how living in a passive house works by going into a model system, into a settlement where you can live in a variety of passive housing types and thus gain experience that energy saving is not a loss of quality, but quite the contrary. It is already a fact that Green jobs are created in the form of companies that build passive dwellings, implement parade projects. I refer here to a model of the company LONGIN or the company HARTL HAUS in the Waldviertel. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we oppose nuclear energy, then we must set clear and clear signs in our own country – those who understand, accept and also contribute to the people for the benefit of the next generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17828	For business treatment, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17853	Thank you very much, Madam President. . I would like to draw attention to a provision of the Rules of Procedure: § 74a GOG, ‘Intangible application’, Commentary No 8: “In the case of urgent requests which have a judgment addressed to the BREG” – this is the case here – “the Federal Chancellor is obliged to comment [...].” There are, of course, representation possibilities, but only if you, Mr Bundeskanzler, were not here, but outside the house. [[Calls: He'll be right back.]] However, you are here and would be obliged to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17884	The next item is the speech by Mr Neubauer. – I put the clock at 7 minutes. I would draw attention to the fact that the electronic clock is not currently running. However, we stop at the Bureau and of course still note the remaining speaking time. [[Abg. Grosz: With the stopwatch?]] - We have a stopwatch, exactly. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17932	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! We have first heard that some representatives of other parties have already rightly complained that in the anti-atomic policy by this Federal Government, there has been a standstill – yes, in order not to say, a sort of refusal policy. Mr Pirklhuber first quoted the “standard” in which Greenpeace was quoted as saying that there were very likely legal possibilities for the Federal Government – here also present – to file complaints. Obviously, the courage is missing. I should therefore like to give you an invitation, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Umweltminister, tomorrow 10.30 a.m., Reichsratsstraße 7. I can present two actions there to the European Court of Justice, to the European Court of Human Rights, and we want to tell you tomorrow how this was done in principle. Maybe have They then have more courage for the future, perhaps even to jump into the break for this Austrian population to gain a bit of security. With all that you have given of yourself today in the course of your statements, namely that you do not actually want to talk about nuclear power, because it is not on the agenda at all, but Euratom and the Euratom Treaty, you have nevertheless managed to talk to 80 percent about nuclear power, and that has really surprised me. They also mentioned that it was a wonderful example that Isar 1 was being upgraded. – However, I think that is exactly the opposite, namely a negative example, because this nuclear power plant does not belong uplifted, but is locked because it poses an blatant frontier threat to the people of our country. It's not uplifted, ladies and gentlemen. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] But I would like to distinguish myself a little from the other speakers, not necessarily by referring to the possibilities of the rule of law, but to a few main criticisms, which constitute the Euratom Treaty itself, which has perhaps not yet been discussed. What are the main criticisms of the Euratom Treaty? – One of the main criticisms has always been that the basic conditions for lending are completely unknown, are not met, and the nuclear power stations are simply not closed contrary to the agreements with the Bank for Reconstruction and Development. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is often unknown! Another criticism is that the studies on environmental compatibility, safety and also on economic and financial aspects have not been published to date. That's where you're wondering: Why is that? What's there to hide? Where is the much praised transparency, ladies and gentlemen? A third criticism is that the European Parliament does not have a say in the granting of loans, nor does it have a right to vote on the increase in the credit framework, ladies and gentlemen. So if you tell us today, Minister of State, that you prefer to be inside rather than outside, because you can't talk otherwise and otherwise have to leave a minister or poor Member in Brussels, I don't know where you know this. A right of participation in the lending of loans is not at all possible, and this should simply be discussed in the same way. It almost seems that Brussels fears that a majority decision could threaten the end of the nuclear industry. That would be what you fear if that nuclear energy actually goes on. Did you actually know that Euratom funds can only be spent on the exit and on the questions of final storage, ladies and gentlemen? That too must be said quite openly. Only now are we at the exit! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Federal Minister has told us that he has a strange opinion, but that as a Member of Parliament we should take care of it ourselves. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's none!]] All right, Minister, I did it. I have called in your ministry and have tried this supposed opinion, and I am no longer convinced that there is any such thing. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not an opinion!]] I have tried to get it because the Minister has promised us that we can have it in principle, but I still have not got it, Mr Federal Minister, and that is really a scandal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So if you say during the last committee meeting that we should try to do this ourselves, and then we try and get it politely, but certainly not, then I do not believe you anymore. I hereby claim: There's no opinion! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] [[Abg. May. Brunner: Right!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Review digressor! There's no opinion at all!]] However, I tell you that there are four opinions in fact, and they say something quite different, namely by University Professor Dr. Bernhard W. Wegener from Friedrich-Alexander University in Erlangen-Nürnberg, University Professor Dr. Geistlinger from Salzburg, University Professor Dr. Rotter from Linz and University Professor Dr. Waldemar Hummer, Ordinarius of the University of Innsbruck. All four come to the clear realization that the exit from the Euratom Treaty, without having to leave the EU at the same time, is legally possible. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality you refuse. So you don't tell the people in Austria the truth either. That is why, after this week, you will have to look into the facts that far more than 100,000 signatures are being collected, as a sign that Austria is finally taking this step of getting out of the current Euratom Treaty. A week ago, SPÖ itself co-imported that it is probably – more precisely you don't know – about €100 million that Austria is investing in an obsolete form of energy instead of investing this money in its own alternative energy here in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Freeman supports popular desire. Go, do the same!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18042	I would like to make a quick point of speaking on the Rules of Procedure of Mr Ing. Replicate Hofer. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall certainly be speaking about this in the next presidency. They quoted the explanations, not the text of the law. You need to discuss this more precisely and differentiatedly, but it should all be discussed. I will therefore address this question in the next presidential term. [[Abg. Grosz: Is the Federal Chancellor speaking today? We'd love to hear him!]] [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: That honors me!]] Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18089	Madam President. High house! I think we have to get back to this, because if you listen to Mr. Minister and others, especially from the ÖVP, you really feel that Euratom is located somewhere between the anti-atomic movement and the safety facility for the safety of nuclear power plants in Europe. And if you look at the Treaties establishing Euratom, you can see exactly where the hare is going. The aim here is to set up Euratom in the 1950s to compensate for the lack of energy at the time and to create a basis for raising the financial resources for nuclear energy. Accordingly, an expansion of nuclear energy was envisaged. You know this from the 1960s, when you already had utopia, that cars will drive with nuclear power, or that everyone at home in his garden will hide a nuclear power plant and get the energy from nuclear power. That was a very good idea in the 1960s in this big hype. Now we know better. It is also in the general objectives for Euratom that the development of powerful nuclear energy is sought. This development of powerful nuclear energy has succeeded. It has really succeeded in making nuclear energy powerful, not only in the construction of countless reactors, not only in the building up of all incidental costs to the citizen – no, not only in it, but also in the reconnaissance with politics we have a powerful atomic lobby. The atomic lobby has managed to lead the nuclear energy to a new renaissance that was unthinkable a few years ago. In the next few years countless reactors will be planned and built. Some are already talking about a new atomic age. This is also with a merit Euratom and the EU, which in their 2020 approach call nuclear energy very prominent and also lead it as a goal for CO2 reduction and therefore want to develop nuclear energy in Europe accordingly. Let us take a closer look at nuclear energy! Many of us still believe that this is a cheap form of energy. That was once. So the nuclear miles still standing are cheap. They are cheap because the common costs were outsourced to the general public and because the safety standards were low at that time. That's why they can produce by about 3 cents per kilowatt hour. All those who go to the network – and we see that in the current planning – are no longer cheap. They will be costed in about 6 to 7 cents per kilowatt hour in pure stature. We are not yet talking about the general cost of uranium development, for uranium production. We are not yet talking about the general cost of environmental damage in the area, and we are not talking about the cost of final storage. If the 7 cents per kilowatt hour costs, I wonder what makes sense. At 5 cents per kilowatt hour you already get biomass power plants, around 7 cents of wind power plants. What does it make for a sense to promote nuclear energy to cross-subsidize if there are alternatives that are without consideration of the late consequences, the long-term consequences, the final storage costs – without consideration! – are cheaper? That doesn't make any sense from my point of view. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The only reason why Euratom is trying to revive nuclear power with the EU and everyone else is the good lobbying of the nuclear industry. The nuclear industry wants its know-how, its possibilities are not broken, and the renewables deserve nothing. I've discussed this with the association. By the way, it is true that Austria imports a lot of nuclear power. We all know that. Now the Minister is making himself up and saying: What are we discussing about Euratom at all? That's all so far away. We don't have nuclear power plants. We reject it. We reject it. This may be front-end, but we import even more nuclear current every year. And it's just the connection that deserves to be very good with it. I asked the union, when he was working around this billion-dollar capital increase at the time, why there is no longer any investment in renewable energy. Do you know what he said to me? – That doesn't count for us. Renewable energy, for example biomass, is where we would have to build very small power plants decentrally with heat coupling. This does not count for a large company like the union. We'd rather build a gas power plant. That makes a lot more sense. It may be that this makes more sense for the union – for us certainly not. That doesn't make sense to us anymore. Let's take a look at the U.S.! The United States is not a shining example of environmental awareness, but there has been something there due to the budget shortage, which is very interesting from my point of view. In the U.S., no new power plant with bank support will be built by the state without a 100% capital guarantee, because the bank has already realized that the newly built nuclear power plants will no longer be economic. This is not only at the high Uranium price. This is also because one has to invest so much money in security so that the thing doesn't fly around the ears that the construction costs are about €7600 per kilowatt and therefore the bank requires a guarantee from the state that it will finance this nuclear power plant at all, because it probably won't be economic. And we invest in such an energy form. And now we're right with Euratom. We support this policy. We support this policy by transferring millions each year to exactly that point. to close. We transfer millions to expand nuclear energy, and we have no idea where the nuclear waste is going. After 50 years, there's not even an idea where to build a warehouse. There are even experts who say there is no final storage on earth, for this waste will be cared for in about 100,000 years or more. And there is no region that is so stable for 100,000 years. Now there is a concept from a scientist – one has to be broken on the tongue – that one shoots the nuclear waste into the sun. This costs about €1,000 billion. There is a rocket being built into which the nuclear waste enters, then it is shot into the sun, and then it is finally stored and out of our consciousness for all time. You have to imagine such things! This is planned, and all of this with funds provided by Euratom. That's why: Let us take care of the really important things! If we take the right measures, we do not need nuclear energy at all. When we look at the lighting alone: 15 per cent of the total electricity requirement goes on it for lighting. With the lighting – we know – we can save 70 percent. This means that in the next five years, we will not need any additional power plant worldwide if we do something at last only in the lighting sector. Or: in the households. There are 70 terawatt hours to save. We could abolish a nuclear energy authority and, on the other hand, set up an energy authority on precisely these projects: How can we save energy so that we do not need additional power plants? – If there are additional power plants, there are, as I have already explained, with biomass, with wind power, with the solar energy enough alternatives that are not only cheaper for full cost calculations than nuclear power. If you take the full cost calculation, they are much cheaper than nuclear power. That is why, Minister: I know you don't have too much action. You have more to say than that, but I would ask you: Look at you finally getting in the way and moving here, even at European level! The first step would be to get out of Euratom and use this money to make sense. There are plenty of possibilities. Get to work!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18174	Mrs Plassnik is now speaking. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18195	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I assume that each of us understands the concerns of the Austrian population in terms of nuclear energy and its impact. However, what bothers me a lot in the debate is exactly the aspect that Clubobmann Cap has highlighted. The question seems to be: Who's the wilder nuclear opponent? And that, I believe, is a debate that we should not be holding. For many years, the Austrian Federal Government has been running a very ambiguous anti-atomic course – and that at all levels and in all available forums. This is the only constructive way we can ensure more security on the one hand and on the other hand create more awareness of what seems dangerous to us. It is impossible, ladies and gentlemen, to repeat. And that's exactly what's part of the argument that we're going to get them made by the opposition today, a little bit under the motto, "If the desire has still helped." This is not a suitable policy approach for me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would now like to refer to the accusation of courage which has been repeatedly raised, the accusation that it has not even been tried. That, ladies and gentlemen, is, at least, incorrect in this debate, because Austria has been looking for exits with great accuracy in the past. I also say without any hesitation that I personally have not been particularly informed of why it should be legally impossible to get out of the Euratom Treaty. Therefore, during my responsibility as a minister within my department, I have also repeatedly given orders, every so little opportunity to look for any still so small crack in the structure of the Treaties, in order to find a way out or at least to operate with partners. Actually, this is about a dead end. We must take note of that. There is no point in giving the population pure wine in this respect. This deadlock, if you want to, has existed since 1967, since the Merger Treaty, when the three original Communities of the ECSC, Euratom and the European Community have been melted. But what we have achieved in the meantime – and this is the merit of various federal governments – is that there is Protocol 54 to the Lisbon Treaty, which explicitly provides for a revision conference. You know as well as I do that we brought together five countries at the time with great effort. I repeat who it was. It was Austria, Sweden, Germany, Hungary and Ireland that agreed to hit at least one snow in the forest, to break the wall and to find a revision conference here. We need 14 votes for this revision conference, which, of course, is not guaranteed under the given conditions of European policy and energy policy. We need the simple majority, that is the legislation that we too have to follow. These 14 votes – and I would like to say quite clearly – are not foreseeable, we do not see them on the horizon. And it would be a lie to claim something else here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my view, Mr Bartenstein asked the right question: What conclusions do we draw from this situation? – Resignation can't be, it's not. If we look at the government programme of the current Federal Government – I ask you to review it on pages 80 and 225 – you will find the efforts to make an Euratom revision conference as part of the current government programme, which is now about expanding the supporter base. That's not an easy task. That's why I'm with Federal Minister Berlakovich, who says: Security first. This is where we can now take part, where we can now leave red-and-white-red fingerprints at European level and also on a global scale – Federal Minister Berlakovich has done it –. So active co-design, that's the word we're supposed to design the future activities. I would just like to remind you of three points that must be kept in mind. On the topic of courage. The fact that the Austrian Federal Government has enforced the removal of Kosloduj, Ignalina and Bohunice was a European-political grat migration in many difficult individual negotiations. There it is. our partners – both the candidate countries and the European Union – have no understanding. That was really a fight against the electricity. And he has succeeded, also with the help of Euratom. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The financing of the reconstruction of these nuclear power plants has largely gone through Euratom. The second point is, as already mentioned, that the Euratom Joint Research Centre can only deal with security aspects. You know that was not the case in the past. The third point, I believe, has not yet been mentioned, namely that, after a long-lasting resistance from different countries, we have also achieved nuclear safety standards in the Nuclear Working Group. Here I see a rail for the future, here we will continue to be actively involved. There is a clear, comprehensive Austrian line, a line that goes far beyond the civil use of nuclear energy. For many years, the Austrian Federal Government has been committed especially to the area of military use – and this is one that is particularly dangerous – that everything is done at both multilateral and bilateral level, which prevents the development of nuclear capacities for the military sector, but which also prevents its spread, i.e. everything that happens in the field of NPT/CTBO. Or bilateral sanctions. When we look at this: Austria has been carrying out the sanctions we have decided against Iran at UN level and at EU level for years to the last point. That is, in reality, the Austrian population of the Federal Government can trust, which makes a responsible policy here and is not dependent on writing letters to the Christian Child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18296	Mrs Gartelgruber has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18317	Madam President. Values Representatives of the Federal Government! High house! I too very much welcome the popular desire for the Euratom exit. And at this point I would like to thank the initiators very much for this. Euratom, whose member we are still, is an important supporter of the nuclear lobby in Europe. Countless billions of euros flow into existing nuclear power plants and enable the construction of new nuclear mills. In addition, huge amounts of funding for nuclear research are available. Under these omens, Minister Berlakovich, it is pure hypocrisy to speak out against nuclear power stations, but to co-finance them and to benefit from them. They themselves say, Minister of State, that our future is not in the nuclear stream, but in sustainable, renewable forms of energy. The EUR 70 million paid annually for Euratom is urgently needed in this area. Not only would this be the right step for the environment, but Austria would significantly reduce its dependence on energy imports by forcing alternative electricity generation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, your argument regarding participation is more than clear. If 189 municipalities and all the days of the country stand out for the exit from Euratom, I ask you to give me a serious explanation of why you are always We are still so vehemently opposed. Here I feel the suspicion that you sometimes speak even more of lobbyists than the Austrians. But what amazes me much more today is the behaviour of our Federal Chancellor, by which we are forced to discuss this in the presidency. What have we learned from this debate today? – Not Wolfgang Schüssel was our chancellor, but Werner Faymann. I have at least the impression that Mr Schussel's silence was far more stylish than Mr Faymann's silence, for this was a voluntary silence. Federal Chancellor Faymann is silent because he is not allowed to talk. Its national parties do not support it in the Euratom question. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now back to the discussion about nuclear power. A few years ago, it looked as if the use of nuclear energy would disappear. In the meantime, however, the wind has turned very well, and we look forward to a very bright future. Our northern neighbor Germany has also postponed the exit from nuclear energy, and in the south, in Italy, nuclear energy is being forced again with the help of France. Nuclear power plants are in operation in all neighbouring countries of Austria other than Liechtenstein. In the European Union, nearly one third of the electricity from nuclear power plants is produced and one fifth is produced worldwide, and the reasons for the upturn in nuclear energy are diverse. Many countries hope to reduce their dependence on energy exports, especially fossil fuels. The crisis in parts of oil and natural gas exporting countries, supply bottlenecks and political blackmail add further impetus to this development. And the political development in North Africa is even worse. It should also be borne in mind, however, that the operation of nuclear power plants is accompanied by significant risks. The population living in the surrounding area is seriously affected here. And the Chernobyl disaster that has already been mentioned many times today is a real proof that we should avoid such accidents as far as possible. Austria, even though following the referendum on the nuclear power plant, Ztentendorf has vehemently expressed in favour of getting out of nuclear energy, and this has even been laid down in a constitutional law, we are one of the beneficiaries of nuclear power. Every year, more nuclear power is imported than Zwentendorf had ever produced. And as can be seen from the 2009 electricity identification report of the independent E-Control authority, the subsidiary, the association, is a leading provider of nuclear power in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Here can only be the answer: The only clear statement is the exit from the Euratom Treaty. Let us use the million euros for our renewable energy in Austria and thus also promote the future of our children! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18393	Before I give the floor to Mr Grosz, just once again to clarify the debate in the Presidency. I now have a presidential protocol, which is also quoted in the comment of the Rules of Procedure. It's not that clear at all. If I read this Presidential Protocol, I must say that it is the procedure that the Federal Government has chosen today, the right one. But it is a multi-layered problem, and that is why we need to discuss it again in the Presidential. – That only so that there is no misunderstanding in the room. Mr Grosz, you are now on the floor. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes; Total term of residence 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18423	Madam President. Gentlemen of the Federal Government! In order to also clarify this misunderstanding: There is no ban on the German Chancellor here in the Austrian National Council. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We would have liked to hear him because the membership of Austria to Euratom is so important to us that, of course, we here in Parliament also value the fact that the head of government is taking a position here in the person of the Federal Chancellor. I think that would be very necessary, because at least at the height of the impact of an economic crisis in the year in which the Federal Government has curtailed the largest savings package in the Second Republic by €40 million after conservative calculation, after real calculation by €100 million a year for us to ask Austrian taxpayers to check out that they are afraid of Krško, Bohunice and Temelín. So if something is perverse, then simply that we have in Austria a federal government that does not have the cutting to put Euratom's chair in front of the door and finally make it clear. Instead of that, today the Minister of Agriculture, Fly Niki, says: It would be better to say so than to stand in front of the negotiating door. – It is probably the Federal Government’s motto not to talk and sit under the negotiating table and pay €40 million for it. That's what we're saying: Enough paid, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Apparently – it is sad – the year 1986 with Chernobyl is already so far away, because in recent decades we have had no occasion to think of an acute threat scenario. But that nuclear energy, the nuclear power, above all those scrap power plants that surround us in Austria, is an acute danger and can bring fear, death and terror to our country every second, you should take this to heart once again if you continue to take control of Austrian tax money, with which we continue to finance these scrap power plants in the future. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are just – I am from the state of Styria – afraid of the state of Krško, and we pray every day that there is a strong and decent Austrian government, which at last explains to the Slovenian government that this nuclear power plant is to be shut down, and that, as we do in Austria, Slovenia also chooses a way to rely on alternative energies. That's our model! We have presented a very good model – energy-autarchic Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This would be a model for Europe, rather than Europe with €40 million dosage from Austria continues to rely on this scrap energy. Mr Berlakovich, you say that leaving Euratom is equivalent to leaving the European Union. It's not like that! In the meantime, every Member State of Europe has created derogations in itself. Greece is slamming out the whole of the European Union and, of course, is still a member of the European Union, even though a liability shield has been made for Greece. No problem at all – Greece did not have to leave, was not excluded. And our federal government has said: No problem, we can immediately deliver the money down to Athens – is much better removed there anyway, the holidaymakers will then come after in the summer. Austria itself has created derogations with Germany – Walter Riester – the so-called transitional provisions. They were not EU law either, and Austria and Germany have not resigned either. Through the negotiating skill of two federal governments in 2003, transitional arrangements were possible. And we don't want anything else from you but that you finally set your backbone in motion, stand up to the Brussels bureaucrats, and say: No, we do not pay any more cents in Euratom, we are getting out of Euratom, without prejudice to Austrian membership of the European Union, which no one, nor the supporters of this popular desire, doubt. Mrs. Plassnik, the popular desire and the instrument of popular desire is, for me, too important for you to make yourself here and say that these are pious desires for the Christian child. At the end of this week, the Austrian population will vote in a very large number for Austria to rise from this vehicle to Euratom. This is not a pious desire for the Christian child, nor is it of you to be treated in such a respectable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18498	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18519	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Mr Federal Minister, you have told us that the arguments are in the circle for you. I am not entirely of your opinion, but if we already stick to the visual language: I think the arguments put forward today for an exit can be compared to a funnel. From one side come the greens, from the other the oranges, from the other we from the FPÖ, and below everything comes to the same conclusion, namely to carry out this exit. But if you don't want to do it, if you persistently refuse the arguments and don't know again and again that the whole thing is right, then of course there's an effect, namely, that you say: It's not true, everything goes back to the start! And that is for the one who does exactly that, the formation of the circle. They want to start over and over again. And you have also told us that you are not for nuclear energy, but that this is a very big difference to the exit from the Treaty. Not for nuclear energy – well, I want to take that off. You have examined what is going on in Germany, and if I look at the answer to my question on this subject: You've done good your duty exercises. I have to say that where the duty ends and normally the course begins, Minister of State, I have to say: You're rather weak in the course. I'd like to be more involved. And that's why – and that's what you're doing – you're driving your previous line, with the far-off goal of energy autarchy. – Yes, I want to take it from you that you are there for it, but so really you are not standing behind it. It's clear to me, that's not a process you'll be putting on your feet in a few months and taking it over the stage. But a little more intensity, a little more measures, a little more enforcement will be inside, and this can also be demanded by a Federal Minister. And I am also aware that the exit from the Treaty does not mean that the European Union may want to get out of nuclear energy. I don't have this naïve idea at all. But to claim that we, if we can't get out of the contract – and that's just a normal legal process – and then we can't do it anymore, that's a little cockbucking. In fact, with the same argument we have to be at NATO and with all kinds of comic associations, because that is where we can talk. – Please, this argument can’t really be, that’s something for the little children in the kindergarten, but we should save ourselves here in the high house. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, what I would like – because Mrs Plassnik said, we come a little bit from the time that the wish has helped: I would like to see some, especially honesty, honesty to the citizens of the Federal Government. Honesty, for example, in the way that atom is not, as always quoted, a low carbon technology. This is not and will not become it, and it is not – nor will it become – a cheap and favourable method for the production of electrical energy. I would also like to be honest about Euratom versus the EU. One can be for or against the EU, only the issue of EU is a complex one. And because of the fact that one is directly related to the other, it's a dangerous assumption that I can't carry. Mr Federal Minister, as the last speaker, I ask you once again to really do something and get out of this treaty quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18577	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18598	High house! Mr President. The gentlemen on the government bank! The Lisbon Treaty clearly states how much opportunity there is to get out of certain things under this Treaty. Here you would have the first chance. – I’m doing it briefly now because I don’t have time to talk. Minister Berlakovich, the Werner Bühlmann of the Swiss Federal Energy Office – I quote him because you said earlier that political reason says you should not leave – points out that even in the EU, it is the national states alone that choose nuclear power. Although Austria may put its arguments in the proceedings, whether it could actually prevent an installation that corresponds to the state of the art is unlikely. - That on your statement. And I wanted to bring you a second quote. Your counterpart in the Vorarlberger Land government, Mr. Landesrat Schwarzler, ÖVP, supports Euratom opponents: Environment Councillor Erich Schwärzler, ÖVP, secures support to the operators of the popular desire for the exit from the Euratom Treaty. In his view, an exit from Euratom would be consistent. And now it comes: But if Austria – thank God – said no to nuclear energy, it would be consistent in his view to get out of Euratom. This is what Mr Landesrat Schwärzler said in the Vorarlberg Government, and I believe you should speak of the ÖVP with one voice. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'll tell you: To pay € 40 million each year for pointless actions is unnecessary waste of money. Enough paid, gentlemen, enough paid! - I'll give it to you in writing so you can remember.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18649	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18671	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there was once a time when nuclear policy was chief. That's where we've had hottest debates about Temelín, Melker Process et cetera. Now it's about money. 40 million € are for discussion – and the Federal Chancellor is silent again. He's silent. We know exactly, € 40 million is missing at the universities – at least! –, €30 million we have once been promised for students after the major occupation actions. We lack 40 million € in the care money safely. The Austrian ticket costs € 40 million – we are missing, we do not afford it. But, Minister Berlakovich, just as your colleagues on the part of the ÖVP and SPÖ, you are helping us to pay €40 million annually for Euratom. There is a new title for this, as Mrs Plassnik mentioned him: Active co-design. – Ladies and gentlemen, active participation in a nuclear policy aimed at ensuring that the EU strategy is finally implemented towards the renewables, does not mean paying €40 million for atoms, but means taking money in order to transform it to get out of the fossils, get out of nuclear energy, get into renewables. Why don't you take the money for that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Berlakovich, you spoke of security, end-camps, research et cetera, et cetera. One thing is definitely safe: There are no safe warehouses! One thing is definitely certain: There are no safe nuclear power plants, and we can pay €400 million for Austria's contribution to Euratom. That does nothing – all in vain labor of love, all shed milk. We certainly only know one thing: At last, the nuclear industry – we are going to have a short or long run of raw materials – is unsolved, and we need the money for other things more. Surely we also know that the 78 percent of the population are for the exit that more than 80 percent are in favour of us not paying these funds towards Euratom, and we certainly know that the Treaty can be revised and we can get out of it. I'd like to read it to you. The Professor of International Law Michael Geistlinger stated on this article 56 Vienna Convention: ‘In the case of a contract which is the founding instrument of an international organisation, if the use of the organisation does not require anything else,’ – that is the case with Euratom – ‘a party has the right to withdraw from the contract and from the organisation, having a period of notice which the competent body of the organisation shall decide as appropriate in accordance with its voting procedures.’ That's where we got it black on white: We can get out! But whatever you always suggest is active participation. No, thank you! We should take part in the development of alternative forms of energy and not where they are about outdated, highly dangerous, yes, fire-threatening forms of energy. Another possibility is the Amsterdam Treaty. You know that nine Member States together can take a position different from the other majority and that an initiative can be set here to amend the Euratom Treaty. But what are you doing? - Not that you actively participate there, not that you see that you get a total of nine initiators together, so eight others win – no, you don't! That's not active co-design. They remain with the conservative form of deposit in Euratom. That's not what we're going to do. We see only one perspective – Mr Cap presented us with a new SP anti-atomic course in a flexible and slalom-like way; he pleads for an EU-wide citizen's desire; what do we need an EU-wide? –: Our proposal is quite stoned and clearly an Austrian referendum, a simple Austrian referendum to exit from Euratom. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I can remind you: At the beginning of the election campaign for your German Chancellorship, your proposal was to make EU referendums. Please, let us start with an Austrian referendum with a view to an exit from Euratom! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18756	No one is reporting on this. The debate is thus closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the self-employed amendment 1427/A(E) tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues on the exit of Austria from the Euratom Treaty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:20:14]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18792	We now come to the short debate on the request for a deadline for Members Hagen, ladies and gentlemen, to report to the Transport Committee on Amendment No 892/A(E) to Members Hagen, colleagues on the implementation of the Court of Auditors recommendations on the ÖBB, a period of time until 27. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker is allowed to speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker has 10 minutes for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government and by-word state secretaries should not last more than 10 minutes. I call Mr Hagen. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18827	Mr President. High house! With this deadline proposal, we want to get the Transport Committee to report on the motion for a resolution 892/A(E) by Mr Hagen, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Markowitz, colleagues on the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations on the ÖBB – and now it is coming! ==References== ==References====External links== Please enter the name of the attachment: I do not think it is too early to talk about recommendations from the Court of Auditors, which last one and a half years or more. Our application refers to the following circumstances: In 2004, the Court of Auditors reviewed retirement changes at ÖBB. At the time, he criticised that ÖBB management and the trade union had reached an agreement in 2002 that a so-called "additional" fee would be taken into account in the pension calculation for around 40,000 ÖBB employees. At the time, however, the cost of the increased pensions had to be paid or taken over by the federal government. In addition, the annual rate of additional fees per annum increased by a certain percentage for the calculation of pensions in 1997. As a result, the Federal Government – as stated in the Court’s report – would incur additional costs of around €1.2 billion by 2006. And now it comes: In November 2007, in a follow-up, the Court of Auditors re-examined the retirement payments to the ÖBB and noted that the recommendations had not been implemented to a large extent. The pension rate, the lack of internal control and the early retirement age at the ÖBB were criticized. You know, we address this almost to every ÖBB debate that there is a huge manko, because between 2003 and 2006 the average retirement age was with the ÖBB – you hear and marvel! – at 52.45 years of age. At that time, however, the ÖBB sent 1,922 persons to retirement for organizational reasons because the service of those concerned became unnecessary for the ÖBB. Ladies and gentlemen, now you can calculate how many people there and at what age have been sent to pension and what cost this means for taxpayers, especially since these people are financed by public authorities in the pension. The fact that these people are condemned for not having to sit at home at this early age is certainly not satisfactory for the ÖBB staff. I know many didn't want that. They were sent to pension under compulsion and adopted with a “golden handshake”. This must be explained to those who have to work today until 65, ladies and gentlemen! You have to keep that in mind once! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] You will also be able to speak, Mr Commissioner, then you can express your opinion here. Now I would like to mention a few figures here, because it is very difficult for ordinary citizens to understand how this works. In 2009, it was €7 billion, including the 100% liability of the federal government, which was taken over for the pension fund or for the ÖBB, which has been paid as a grant from tax funds to the ÖBB, which is for these dirty machinations – I say what it is like: for these dirty machinations! - were used. In other words, each taxpayer has had to pay €2 500 in taxes for the ÖBB in 2009. So every taxpayer – there are also many who do not pay tax – had to pay €2,500 so that the ÖBB personnel reduction and privilege stadium could be produced, without even having solved a ticket with the ÖBB. [[Abg. Bucher: Enough paid!]] I think these people have thought – and I have heard from my colleagues here – that has paid more than enough. Here the “enoughly paid ” is not enough at all. That's paid more than enough, ladies and gentlemen, that's a cleanery, what's happening here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When I consider that if the pension measures had been implemented, which were decided in 2003, had to be paid annually by 1 billion less to the ÖBB, I have to say: It's the bottom of the barrel. Management in the ÖBB has completely failed. This is not only what I am saying, but it is also said by the Court of Auditors, and this is also said by the State Secretary Lopata of the ÖVP, who complained in a nice letter that I am here, which reigns in the red ÖBB empire, I say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] Mr Haberzettl, you will be speaking anyway. But I have to tell you: You are co-responsible or one of the main responsibility for this privilege stage, because you are on the brake. It is quite clear in the Court of Auditors' report that trade union and management have slowed down and caused these costs. You are responsible for the fact that the Austrian taxpayers have to pay €2 500 per capita per year to the ÖBB without even having settled a ticket with the ÖBB. You must explain this to the citizens! And then there are all the advantages that ÖBB staff have. I just want to pick out some now. For example: driving advantage. In other words, all ÖBB employees and pensioners, as well as their direct relatives, if they live in the same household, may use ÖBB's trains at any time to a very low degree of self retention. This results in a three-digit million-a-year loss of revenue from the ÖBB. Ladies and gentlemen, these are privileges that are certainly no longer explainable today if we have a tax and tax rate of 45 percent and more! Explain They pay their taxes to the hardworking workers and employees in Austria, including the hardworking officials who go to work every day! I'll tell you one thing: Enoughly paid, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let's go to the retirements again! – The Federal Court of Auditors’ report of 2009/1 – that is the latest, I believe – criticises the threat of additional costs of about €1.2 billion from the involvement of the general repatriation fee in the ÖBB-pensions. Similarly, the level of the average additional charge is massively criticised. I could say a lot about this now, but I would like to talk about something else, namely the wild growth at the works councils. This is also largely responsible for cost increases. Mr Haberzettl, you as Chairman of the Works Council, as Trade Union Chairperson will certainly explain to us how it can be possible for the approximately 42 000 ÖBB staff – normally according to the plan that was made in 2003 – to be 34 486; 42 000 of the 46 486 staff we still have, plus 700 leasing workers who were still employed in 2009 – so how it can be possible that the 42 000 ÖBB staff of approximately 101 duty-free works councils will be represented. [[Abg. Riepl: Are you against co-determination?]] There you can say: This is a privilege stage led by trade unionists and unfit managers, where one is enriched at tax costs, the bags are stuffed, and where Austrian taxpayers are burdened with large amounts of tax money. Let me tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen: It is high time that this is addressed here once! We can't push this out year after year, because that's your tactics to keep stuffing the bags. We're not playing with that! We from BZÖ say quite clearly: Enough paid, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18911	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18935	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I thought about the press newspaper on the weekend, it couldn't get worse, but it came even worse. Mr Hagen, your request has a certain age, because it comes from the year 2009, and he looks just as old as he is. [[Abg. Hagen: He has been postponed over and over again!]] First of all, I should like to comment on the subject of “pension reforms”: Since 1997, the railways have had to carry out four pension reforms which will ultimately end in the transfer to the General Pension Act. That is to say, the privileges you mention in the pension area are either history or already in a redirection phase. Just briefly: In 1997, the introduction of the calculation was negotiated from 2003 onwards, taking into account the principle of trust, the net adjustment of pensions under the ASVG and the increase in the pension contribution. You did not say that, in comparison to the ASVG insured, the railways and pensioners must pay a pension contribution increased by 5.3 per cent or 4.8 per cent. At the time, it was not even too stupid for you to cash 1.8 percent of your pension insurance contribution from widows and orphans. Furthermore, the introduction of the pension provisions has been implemented and – listen, Mr Hagen!Use custom fonts; You are a police officer in the civil profession of my knowledge – an approximation of the supplementary allowance, which you criticise, to the Civilian Pension Act. That is, you stand here and criticize what you consume, with the railways. The question of the moral authority is settled by itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Yes, so they are, the oranges!]] In 2001 there was a replacement of private pension schemes by the Bundesbahnpensionsgesetz. There you were already in the government of my knowledge. There was an extension of working time by 18 months, a reduction in widow's pension – which was also indifferent to you – and a loss of death benefit; this was also indifferent to you. So all these deteriorations up to the general pension law were made. And now you're making yourself up and criticizing individual regulations here. I would like to tell you the following: The additional fee allowance is something that was actually necessary as a change of service rights to the employee's law in any form, because there was no calculation of the officials' railways and therefore there were no foundations to take over the ASVG rule. Therefore, the ten percent pension scheme. For the pre-introduction on Your pension calculation model, if you want, has been agreed to increase to 15 percent by 0.27 percent annually by 2020. This is a partial result of the first 1997 pension change package. I was sitting there myself at the negotiating table. If you want to open these negotiations, I am willing to open all four packages and start renegotiating. You will only find no one responsible for this adventure. The second point, which you criticise, is the question of the incidental fee. In fact, you have confused this in your argumentation. The general rate of additional charges, which so often existed in the old Federal Service, has been negotiated since 1998 to eliminate them. With the start-up and with the implementation into the salary scheme, 150 additional fees have been removed and a huge administrative burden has been incurred by the ÖBB. The sadness was only that the ÖBB had to do this alone and had no support from the owner on this question. Unique is also the following – this is also noted here: What the Court of Auditors has done with the ÖBB, I have not experienced a second time in the Republic, namely that the pension costs are set before a professional group by 2056. I've never heard of this from the police, I've never heard of teachers, I've never heard of steel workers, how the pension costs will develop by 2056. The retirement age is also an adventure. Most pensioners - you have been silent about what the Court of Auditors report says; Mr Bucher, listen! – most of the pensions were completed between 2003 and 2006. [[Abg. Bucher:... a billion tomb!]] Who was the Director-General in these years? He's called Huber. But the name Gorbach, who was the owner, immediately comes to my mind. [[Abg. Bucher: Owner!]] Faith I don't know what you're talking about. I was in a side room in 2003, where there was a very loud discussion between three men. One was the Gorbach, the second was the Trattner and the third was the current President of the Court of Auditors. And that is the question of how many thousand railways are being distributed. So that's the alternative! And now I'm saying, Mr Gorbach was very well aware of what was done in the field of retirement. I can only say one thing to the internal labour market: He's gonna be in a hurry. There are very fruitful discussions with the new Director-General. It will be a strong reduction of the... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] You are right, Mr Petzner, for you we have no use. You're right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – There will be a strong reduction in pensions. Finally, there will also be a group labour market. The Court of Auditors' criticism has been reworked.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19029	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19051	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' report, as it was presented in 2009, and in the meantime also the relevant critical statements of various other bodies, show that the Austrian Federal Railways are constantly talking about the most important Austrian construction site. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Bucher.]] The problem is only – and Mr Haberzettl has now documented it again –: In fact, he is to blame for the fact that the Court of Auditors has referred to the rate of additional fees, because he has now made, with the then Director-General – I do not want to say: he has pulled him over the table – at the expense of third parties, the unappropriate regulation which the taxpayer now has to pay. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Exactly!]] That's your responsibility – and it's yours! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation and bravorage at the BZÖ.]] You're happy because you're in the OeBB's lazy bed. That's the difference to the ÖVP! We are for the diligent, you are for the lazy, Mr Haberzettl. That's what you can write in the main book! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] There is now a new Director-General. I do not think that this proposal for a time limit does not take effect because it would have to refer to the forthcoming collective treaty negotiations. I expect a Director-General not to be a voodoo economist, that he is not a number juggler, that he only sells things that he also implements that he does not feed the media with half-truths or with falsehoods with taxpayer's advertising money. ==References== In addition, January figures on personnel reduction and eight days later announced more by a thousand people. And that's where he's going, and he'll be celebrating! That is really the reason. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the regulation of driving benefit, tax freedom? They have provided aid for tax evasion! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Up to now, the driving benefits have not been taxed – once in the Republic, there has been nowhere! That is a principle of equality, Mr President. I am in favour of Mr Haberzettl coming out of here and saying that there cannot be two different rules. This has actually happened! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Let me tell you again: What Mr Haberzettl is doing is nothing but showing that something is beautiful here, where the taxpayer is actually asked to cash. Now I would like to say one more to Mr Kern, the Director-General, who for me is a voodoo economist and a number juggler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] If someone in an investment, where there is a promotion, such as at the Brenner Base Tunnel, clearly says that he is opposed, but in that investment, where there is no funding, at the Koralm Tunnel, for that, this indicates what economic “size” of this Director-General is. We'll measure him. I only say to you that this proposal for a deadline is therefore not appropriate because the actual points to be settled in the forthcoming collective treaty negotiations. This is what we will be measuring the Director-General.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19161	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19183	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What one could experience once again today was the so-called acting ÖBB, presented by an alleged federal government, but which has always made it clear that it consists of two parts, which can not only rule against each other, but can actually govern against each other. In the same way, this discussion is determined by ideology, less arguments, but rather by mutual attacks, sometimes by the one hand and sometimes by the other. In this context, I constantly criticise the fact that the Austrian government is simply talking about the big debt in a planless way. This simple ÖBB debt discussion prevents the view of the deep lying down, of the truth, which is often in detail. So once we get to the side of what has happened to infrastructure discussion in the last few days and weeks, we come to the operational area, and there are still some decent economic dogs buried there. We have this discussion, among other things, also in the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee, which has now been set up. There we get some things completely unagitated, objectively through At the end of these meetings, we will then say what we, as the subcommittee or as Parliament, have to imagine the political consequences that this must have. On the point raised by Mr Hagen as regards staff. When we look at the ÖBB, we see that the ÖBB already have a problem in the business sector. They have an overhang in the area of officials aged 40 to 50, which they cannot use operatingly, and there just has to be a cleaning. Economically, it is crazy because precisely the ladies and gentlemen then, I do not want to say in terms of current contributions, but in the case of ordinary pension benefits, but are not used and can be operational. But just accusing the ÖBB would be cockbled. There are a number of other things that have harmed the ÖBB in the final effect. The reason for this was, in fact, politics. There I would like to mention several purchases, expensive purchases in the area of the machinery park and locomotives only entirely on the edge. First of all, what I would expect would be a reassurance of the discussion. However, this is not possible in view of the actors in the field of ministries and government. What I would also expect would be a discussion which aims precisely at the points and does not consist mainly of camouflage, but we should say who is responsible for the staff and the civil servants mentioned. This is once the Federal Minister for Transport, but this is also Mr Lopatka's State Secretary or the Ministry of Finance. Both would have to look at the fact that this is being properly fixed. Both are currently doing nothing, at least not noticeable. And the whole thing against the background of a slow, but safe, Westbahn-Gesellschaft, which starts operations at the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen of both government groups, if they drive when they drive for one year or two years, and that will probably be good, then we do not need to think about the ÖBB much more about how it could look like a positive result of the ÖBB, but then we will be able to get together and get together properly, and we should actually avoid that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19234	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19255	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since we support every deadline as a means of opposition to advance the discussion in the committees and then also in the plenary session, we will of course also agree to this deadline. In terms of content, I believe that the focus on the pension issue at ÖBB is far too narrow, which shows, as it were, the span of the discussion, the argument today, it is a problem of principle. The pension scheme is an aspect where one can believe Haberzettls, where one can also be the opinion of Maiers or where one can stop a medium-sized approach, as we do, with the demand that we need a uniform pension right in Austria in the medium term, which is three-part and that is fair. The ÖBB are also there in a certain way, but it is still paved with exceptions and special regulations. If, on the other hand, you say, it is definitely necessary to reform management tasks et cetera, then I must emphasize, yes, of course we should also intervene there. The whole system of additional charges also refers to the imbalance that there are very likely ÖBBlers working in the area under poor weather conditions, outdoors, shift services and very likely to have a right to additional charges, but at the same time it is common for the ÖBB that the people who sit behind heated desks on soft armchairs are equally affected. For me, the main thing is the injustice of this ancillary fee scheme. But let's go back to the key word management. Yes, you are right, at the ÖBB for decades the middle management has been partly self-evident at work, too little oriented to the needs of the customer, too little oriented to the needs of the people on the ground. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: That's it!]] That is why I believe that an ÖBB reform beyond what Gorbach and the black and blue government, I say deliberately, have broken down on filleting, sub-dividing, expensive contracts, expensive management contracts, expensive additional positions, whose total number, as I think, is sufficient, in the long term, as the Swiss have done. I know that a state railway, also in Germany or in France, we can also use Spain, is a permanent reform project in view of the fact that the EU imposes competition on it. This will be the general challenge before which any reform can be achieved. It is said, the previous speaker said, on favors – and this is also my criticism, why they are given the favors of the West Railway – so to speak, the rosin picking around, and then we can see how we can achieve public transport in some way. This is the general challenge that every ÖBB reform must meet. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need to take all the Court of Auditors' reports seriously, not just the criticism of the pension scheme. There is a massively critical Court of Auditors report on public services, and there is no public debt alone, since, as it were, the payers, the BMVIT, the government owes it that transparency exists, so to speak, that internal maneuvers within the ÖBB are simply tolerated, that beyond the needs of passengers are cross-subsidized and pushed around, that the ÖKOMBI has almost gone down the stream. These are management errors, which are to be criticized especially in the middle management sector and partly also in the board. That is why I am grateful for the setting up of the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which I have initiated or driven forward, this small committee of inquiry, where we want to put our fingers in various areas of the ÖBB. We want constructive improvements. I would like to point out that the reform phases in Switzerland, the Federal Republic of Germany, probably also in France and Spain are a 10-year programme. This is not the case with the largest company in Austria from today to tomorrow. We have seen what the "today on tomorrow" in 2004/2005 has led to the destruction and filleting of all the problems that we now have to deal with, with increased costs. In my opinion, this 10-year perspective of general public transport reform and public transport must, above all, be provided with the major objective of achieving maximum customer benefits in terms of environmentally oriented public transport. And this is a guideline – as it was in Switzerland as well. And before this guideline, the pension discussion will be conducted under the title “remotely running”. In my opinion, yes to the deadline, but an important yes to a general, systematic R & D and infrastructure policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19303	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19324	Very briefly: The really excellent analysis of Mr Maier is nothing more. I end with “genug paid for the ÖBB” and hope that the political groups will also agree to this deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19355	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Hagen, ladies and gentlemen, to the Transport Committee for reporting on amendment 892/A(E) by Mr Hagen, colleagues, on the implementation of the Court of Auditors recommendations on the ÖBB for a period of time up to 27. ==References== Whoever is in favour of this deadline request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:51:20]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19391	I will resume the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19415	Mr President. High house! It is quite good, if so much youth is here in Parliament today, to see how the coalition climate is here in this room, which continues in the major reform projects from education to science to the ÖBB, to administrative reform. There you can really see that there is actually a standstill here. This also applies to the great field of science. But that's all right anyway. When I read the paper: “This is how easy it is to become a Dr. Guttenberg” – but the German minister is not meant to have resigned today because he has suffered the consequences – then the small green Guttenberg is meant, there is a certain Julian Schmid meant on Facebook on 21 January. Januaryen – that is, far before the Guttenberg affair – wrote: Does anyone want to write my exams for me? – So in principle the same topic, only with the difference that is then said: That was just a joke. Nothing happened. This was just a green screech, while in Germany a minister is rightly taking the strictest regulatory action and even resigning as a minister. These are the differences in evaluation between a conservative politician and the responsibility of the Greens, for Julian Schmid is no less than no member of the state board of the Greens Vienna. And here I wonder what consequences there will be for the green Federal Obstetric Glawischnig, but also the Vienna Landesobfrau Vassilakou or also the super correct Morala Paul Dr. Pilz, who will always be like who refers to Commissioner Hahn and asks whether something could have been done in his doctoral thesis. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I noticed the following during the discussion on the UG-Novelle today: It was the first step for the ÖVP. If this is the first step towards more quality, more service at the universities, then I have to say that is really a 10-km drive and orientation to finally reach the goal, because this first step is almost nothing. The FPÖ in the left block together with the SPÖ and the Greens has only a big topic: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, for God's sake, we have ideological scams on them, although there are those everywhere in Europe, they do not want them. The word “performance” is something very bad at all and also no at study fees. You want more money for the university, where it comes from, but it doesn't matter. That's our access, too. The Minister, I noticed, says that we will have many new students from Germany in autumn, and thinks that we can solve the problem with this placebo solution. But that will not be the case. And now to the novelle: The three main issues have been addressed: Studienwahlberatung from 2012/2013, then the two-week application period from 2011/2012. There is also an amendment because there are already some studies with applications. The third point was the entrance phase, which was shortened from two to one semester, in the back with a single Knock-out test. So, in principle, a Murks and the whole thing at the helm. ==References== In December, there was the draft ministerial draft in Parliament. Three hot days of assessment – one has to let one break on the tongue – until the 10th. December. ==References== The government's proposal, then, has gone to sleep badly for three nights, and it has been said that we also need an amendment that has also arrived at us 24 hours before the meeting of the Scientific Committee. That's how you deal with the opposition! For criticism of itself: This study advice or study selection advice has already been mentioned. Nothing bad in itself, but who is to do it? - It's not normed. How is she made? How is the quality secured there? How is the certificate issued? And the best is at all: The explanations then state that there are no costs for the study selection advice. How is that supposed to work? So they'll get advice, everything for free. Who's doing that? – Questions that are unresolved. We from the BZÖ are also for a study entry phase, which should last up to two semesters, but not with Knock-out tests, but the examinations made in the framework of the STEP should be included in the normal study. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The goal would have been better planning. Just what do you want to plan with these two, three instruments? – You can't plan anything! The only thing you can plan and what you know in the future is how many students will come to the WU Vienna for example – there we currently have a drop-out rate of up to 80 percent. In the future, you can plan and say, because so many have signed up this year, we need to check out 85 percent. You can plan that. But this is not the quality improvement we want from the BZÖ. We want a stronger base budget, 250 million to 300 million per year. We want the degree course management, where the university clearly knows, I get this amount per student for this study, in order to be able to operate accordingly. And we also want a debate on tuition fees and subscription fees, which are replaced by the Uni-Bonus for Austrians, for those entitled to study in Austria. As a result, the large chunks have not been attacked at all. There is no improvement in the relationship between professors and students. There is no evaluation of scholarships, of the study grants that would be urgently necessary. There is no final assessment that you say you should finally stop using the so-called Curia System, Curia Model to replace it with a modern faculty model, in order to also enable teachers to achieve corresponding careers. There's no higher education plan. There is no FTI strategy, and, and, and. Everything announced by this government, nothing has been done so far. So what you really want to do better, I'm sluggish. Finally, the topic of students from Germany has already been addressed. In autumn we have two double graduations. It has also been subjected to military service. Experts speak of up to 15,000 students in addition to Austria, 15,000 students especially for the universities of Innsbruck, Salzburg and Linz. Where do you want to accommodate them? With these instruments you can't limit this. I remind you that we currently have around 333,000 students, 263,000 from home, 70 000 from abroad, of these 70 000 already 20 000 from the Federal Republic of Germany. Over the last seven years, the number of students from Germany has tripled. From autumn it will increase accordingly. The rate of foreign primary applicants in Austria is a total of 25 percent, the total rate of foreign students 18.7 percent. Not that it would not be good to be also internationally set up, but the OECD section, which is generally considered as a benchmark, is 8.5 percent in this respect. Therefore, we believe that Austria should not continue to co-finance the scientific system, the education system Rest of Europe, but we must first look at the Austrian students themselves. We want to manifest this in an appropriate request which I may make: [[Quoted print version removed]] There's nothing left to add to that. I mean one: The issue of compensatory payments, as is already the custom internationally, or the country of origin principle would be common opportunities here. And I ask you to support this request, because it cannot be said that Austria pays for the EU that Austria, as discussed today, pays for Euratom that Austria pays for the Euro Save Screen pays that Austria pays for EU Member States and that Austria also pays for foreign students whose number is disproportionately high. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19534	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19594	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19615	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President, you have referred to some of the measures that are important to you in the field of science policy. I can calm you down: We are also concerned about the university plan, we are also concerned about the relationship between professors and students, we are also concerned about improving career opportunities for teachers, and the minister is also involved in evaluating the scholarship system. Only: Now to awaken the expectation or even to expect that this novelle can offer a solution to all the problems mentioned – you will probably not believe that yourself. That is why it is not possible today, but these are the tasks that we as the Federal Government have to face as a whole and where I believe that the Federal Minister is doing excellent work in this respect and that until the end of the legislative period we still have enough time to deal with the above-mentioned points, which are also defined in the government programme. I cordially invite you to make a constructive contribution to this. This novelle is anything but a placebo solution, quite the opposite. You have mentioned that at the end of the day you would have preferred to have a solution based on the capacities at the universities. Yes, that would have been a more honest solution from our point of view. In this respect, the mandatory pre-registration application is also limited to 2014 because it cannot be a long-term solution. We're aware of that, too. But if you say at the same time, you're against any kind of Knock-out, then you're already aware that this is a contradiction in itself. Then: Of course, at the end of the day, every form of the study entrance phase has the result that there is a selection in any form depending on how to design it. Since you have previously mentioned that you would rather have two semesters than one semester, because that is something like lost time: This is not true, because the tests carried out there are, of course, counted with ECTS points. Therefore, it is not a lost time. If almost every second student changes his studies in the course of the study career, this is a clear signal that it is high time to do something in terms of study advice. I very much believe that the three measures in question have helped the universities, but above all the students have been helped to find out first: What am I best suited for?, What possibilities do I have at all at the universities?, because if 60 percent of students choose only 10 percent of the subjects, this is also a signal that we have to resist. So in so far as: Finding the right choice of students and creating the best conditions at the universities as possible – that is our goal, and I invite you to vote here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19653	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19674	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to study in Austria today, you have to be either super intelligent to all these obstacles, Knock-out tests or you have a lot of money to go abroad or to consume one of the increasingly frequent and numerous private study projects. Or one has simply had bad luck – bad luck as many thousands of young people who want to study this year, who have heard for many years that Austria is a country where everyone can study where the universities are open, where justice and equal opportunities exist at universities. In Austria today it is such that it is a huge hasard game to study. Unfortunately, that is the reality. The contradiction between the actual claim and reality has grown enormously. In recent years, as has been said, we have even predicted to the young people that it is social, solidaric, just and in orderly paths, today, as we all know, reality is quite another. It is no longer everyone who can study, and it does not rule equal opportunities in higher education policy today, not solidarity, not achievement, nor excellence, but unfortunately it rules the Red Foundation. It is today that we are presented with this law on which we are to vote here, in a sense, if we look at the content. It is repeatedly stressed by the speakers of the coalition that we simply have to accept that there are Knock-out tests. I say: We don't have to! If we already want an orderly access, we have to do that at the beginning of a study. That means we need to install a real input phase with an access check – in the worst case and in the easiest case. This will pass, or it won't exist. But we cannot believe that young people are presenting them today with a so-called mandatory consultation, a mandatory consultation that will not bring what is in the law, what they promise in the law. I also believe that the study entry phase we are talking about here, which is in the law, is nothing but a type of admission procedure, an enhanced admission procedure to the individual institutes, and in the worst case it means a year loss for young people. This year because they are allowed to repeat once again. I don't think that's reasonable in any way. It's just a knock-out test. I also believe that if you are dealing with such a large project as access and even science and higher education policy, you should first define the structure of the strategy – and not, just as it is happening at the moment, that we make small corrections, where it turns out afterwards that it was not the right way. I would ask you not to follow the obvious concept: Today we are at the abyss, but it does not matter, because tomorrow we are certainly a step further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19716	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19738	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked to put this account again: You can repeat a test once and then lose a year?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: In that case!]] – There are several examinations to be carried out at a study entry stage. It says: at least one, but not more. It's not inside that it's one. It's not the Knock-out test, but it's tests. [[Abg. Dr. Rosary: One or more?]] Many of us have studied and know that it is sometimes not easy to pass an examination. For example, we know that the University of Vienna has already decided not only to be repeated once, but twice. That is, there are already universities that react to it. And the process of not letting someone with a Knock-out exam in before the study is, in my opinion, the worse. It has failed a lot, one allows these young people to study in a study entry phase limited to a semester and to count on them to study – that is, the exams that will be completed there – when one keeps them from looking at whether they are suitable for this study, whether they want it. – That is, the invoice you put up here is so unmistakable to me. The second, also from the previous speakers of the BZÖ, by Mr Mag. Widmann was presented with regard to the BZÖ model of tuition fees, which I always like better. If I can figure this out, then you want 5 000 € from countries, 5 000 € from foreigners, and for the domestics we refund it. Is that right? – Then I am particularly pleased that the BZÖ is now in a cooperation for the freedom of study, at least the Austrians, with us in the “left corner”, as you have called it – because if you fully refund, Austrians don’t pay a registration fee of €5,000, but they don’t pay for it. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Registration fees!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] That means that we are on non-payable study contributions. I am therefore particularly pleased that the “left corner” as you mentioned it has spread a bit and that BZÖ has noticed that study fees are not necessary for access or for anything else, nor can they be used to finance universities. [[Call the FPÖ: Moderate applause!]] Let me also come back a little bit to the vintages we have to expect. – Yes, it is true, we have expected from the surrounding foreign country, namely Germany, that now birth-like vintages, say two Matura vintages, but also one year due to the failing military service, come to us. However, I do not believe – and I think we have discussed this sufficiently in the Scientific Committee – that this is a problem that Austria can solve alone, namely by closing the doors. What we need, and we will also call on the Minister of Science to do so, is to have discussions at European level on how these issues continue. We hope that these talks have already begun and that we will have measures at our disposal when this situation occurs. What I also like: if you are Professor Van der Bellen always demands – I think, from the ÖVP – that he should give his money to the universities. Then I would almost ask that we spend our money on short and fast reading courses for Members, because if you complain that you cannot read and cooperate with a single-line amendment that has been made to you in good time, then I think our money would also be well invested in a fast-reading course. [[Abg. May. Widmann: This is a fundamental question!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19839	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19861	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The government template, which has already been said, has essentially four points: the shortened application period, the study advice, the re-forming at the initial and orientation stage and the re-regulation of the examinations at this stage. Kurt Grünewald has already given a detailed opinion on this. I am not going to repeat this now, but perhaps I will just comment on the study advice soon and on a point that is hidden in the explanations. For study advice: Mrs Bundesminister, we have already discussed this in the Committee. I don't know exactly – I really don't know from the wrist now: How many students are there per year? 30,000, 40,000, 50,000? - All right, let's say 40,000. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not a question hour!]] Your colleagues don't care. Don't worry. Of these 40 000, it is said that a quarter have already taken advantage of study advice anyway – 30 000 new ones remain. And in the front page, the proposed changes do not have any immediate financial impact at present. As a former member of the Committee on Budgets, I must say: Parliament leaves it to the Minister of Science, together with the Minister of Education, to adopt a regulation on this, namely, study advice, and writes in the foreword, it has no direct financial impact at present. What is that supposed to mean? That in 14 days it will have a very financial impact? The fact that it has no immediate but indirect financial impact in the near future? – What is a study advice that is supposed to have no immediate financial impact at all? So I remember – this has been a long time, a long time ago – I had a study advice. I did not accept the proposal then, but that was a rather serious matter. I had to do a small test and get a consultation, I think, from the time I was – what was the name of that then, the precursor of the AMS? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Labour Office!]] – Labour office, and it came out that I should study psychology, but actually not again, because it was a unblemished art. He didn't counsel me about the economy. But it probably took half an hour or an hour. For 40,000 students, this is 40,000 hours if you take it seriously. – If, of course, someone comes into a matura class, where 20 or 25 are already sitting, and then one hour is presented for what you can study – I mean, people, that's for the most common for the sausage. It doesn't make any sense. So either do right or not at all. And then, please, indicate the financial impact. That's not billions we're talking about, that's a few hundred thousand euros or one or two million. That's all it is. But I insist that it is a matter for Parliament not to get any wiping presented as an official government template, but that the title ‘financial impact’ must be taken seriously. - That's one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The other thing is: The explanatory notes point out that § 66, which is now being re-regulated by 30. In September 2014, it entered into force. Reason: the Federal Government has already agreed that “from the beginning of the service agreement period 2013 to 2015, a new model of study place financing will be implemented on the basis of a standard cost calculation and associated capacity determination and future expansion needs under the Federal Government’s higher education plan”. – A literal quote from the explanations. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, there is the actual explosive. I have the impression that you expect a study place funding true miracles – but that's just a formal instrument! The colleges have long had a place of study funding, and if you are talking to the representatives of the technical universities today, they say that they are still starved because these amounts have not increased sufficiently to pay off inflation. In a way, their corset is even stronger than that of the universities today, because they cannot “improve” their situation – under quotation marks – that they reduce the number of students, because then they automatically reduce their budget with a study place funding. So there you will have to determine what standard costs of a student are. I believe that the ratio will be one to five, one to eight, depending on the direction of study and the university. This will be a debate, and then we will look at exactly what you are doing for standard costs, for example at the Vienna University of Economics. We know that these are clearly underfinanced. But in the case of the standard cost calculation and the place of study funding, the level of sub-financing of universities becomes almost official. And as an alternative, you have to reduce the capacity of the economic university to half or to a third. But that's not going to happen. That is to say, the hour of truth in the budget will come at the latest in the negotiations on this performance agreement, on the standard cost calculation, on a corresponding capacity determination – and thus the hour of truth for the federal financial framework. If you do not want to spend more money on the universities, you have to admit that the number of students in certain subjects has to be drastically reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19924	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19946	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Yes, we hear, we currently have some problems at our universities. There is a great rush of students, which is basically very pleasing, but without appropriate measures of course no longer to be dealt with. Since Germany – due to the reduction of the training time or the suspension of the compulsory military service – will have a large number, an above average number of graduates, it was urgently necessary to reorganise the study entry phase. We need high quality at our universities, we need better planning and a better distribution of the various courses. With this university law novelle we want to meet these requirements. There are three essential points that concern the amendments – we have already heard them – first of all the mandatory pre-registration. This should contribute to planning, to better planning for universities, as well as for students. Secondly, there is mandatory study advice, which of course has to be used very early and should relieve the mass compartments. As a Member of Parliament from Vorarlberg, where there is no university, it is important that this study advice can also be carried out in the countries. It can't be that 60 percent of the students have 10 percent of the subjects. The student streams should therefore be guided and the study decision should be made more consciously. Thirdly, qualitative admission procedures are to be made possible for all students at a newly designed stage of study. The test repetitions are reduced to a repetition. So there is clarity for both students and universities. In order to achieve greater planning and better social integration, I would prefer the reintroduction of the study contributions. It would be a better and more honest means; this will also show us the technical universities. Unfortunately, this is at the moment It is not possible to do so politically. Our principle is that everyone who is suitable must be able to study in Austria. We have taken a first step in the form of ensuring more quality, but there will need to be further steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19988	Mrs Lichtenecker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20009	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this circle, we can surely agree on objectives, for example, that we want to improve the conditions for students to ensure a high-quality education system and, in any case, an increase in the number of students, in particular but also in the number of graduates. Whether this novelle actually fulfils it, that is more than questionable – the colleagues Van der Bellen and Grünewald have already put forward the arguments in this regard. I would like to add one more important aspect to this, Mrs Minister, who is constantly going down in the debate, namely the social situation of students. The social situation of students in Austria is also largely linked to the numbers of graduates at universities, which are far below average in both OECD and EU-19 comparisons. It is also very worrying that in the last 15 years – and here I am also addressing the colleagues in Social Democracy – very little has changed in terms of the social origin of students. That is, there are very, very few students who have parents whose income is located in the lower segment. And that's a very bad sign for the past few years. For the social situation of students, the figures on employment and scholarships are certainly meaningful. At least 61 percent of students work during the study period, while 90 percent work during the holiday. Ladies and gentlemen, you know how this works out. I remember my study time: Students who were dependent on working more than an average of many hours during their studies to secure their livelihood have often aborted or studied for a very long time. And I can tell you, I know people from my time of study who are still working on their studies today, and that has to do with the social situation. In this context, Mrs Minister, I am also referring to scholarships and study grants. In Austria, only 18 per cent of study grants, 7 per cent of self-holder grants and a few per cent of service grants are available. 41 per cent do not receive any support at all, and this, Mrs Minister, should be changed. It is always announced, debated, but ultimately not launched. That's a long time overdue. In this respect, we Greens propose to increase the involvement rate to at least 35 percent and to increase the scholarships by at least 20 percent in order to make it easier for students to manage the study, to complete it positively. In general, the study conditions need to be substantially improved. Finally, on the subject of consultation: The advice, as it is now embedded in the novelle, comes from a nice gesture, but the study advice It would have to start much earlier, that is, already in schools.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20061	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20082	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard the numbers in detail. I would like to say once again: There is no doubt that we have fewer students than other countries, and we want to do everything we can to increase this number. In other words, we will prevent anything that contributes to the fact that the number goes down even further and that young people are deprived of their chance – and this includes, Mrs Franz, tuition fees; this is proven. And I am glad and proud that there is still a majority in this House who rejects such measures. We confess that as many young people as possible are to be given opportunities to study and live in accordance with their talents. There are always people who say that not all students complete the studies, that many stop beforehand; they are told: Among those who do not complete the study, there are fewer unemployed than those who have completed their studies. Some students take a different course in the course of their studies, pursue a profession, take advantage of their opportunities, take part in their training and thus pursue their life course. So from the outset, just about “raped students ” and so on, is wrong and should stop only young people from studying. We also speak quite, quite decisively against the Numerus clausus. It can't be that this young person should stop – because in Germany the military duty is abolished, and then hopefully also with us, and therefore with two years, i.e. even more people there; that can't be a problem – to pursue their studies with us, because that's a European problem. It is your job, Mrs Minister, to solve this problem. This is a European problem that we know about. [[Abg. Donabauer: You are in the government, Mr. Cot! Aren't you with the government? Think about it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: (in the direction of ÖVP) New elections!]] This problem is still to be solved. There's government responsibility – I know you hear that They do not like it, they say who is responsible, and these things are to be solved where they happen, at European level. The draft law, despite all of this, is an important step, which some have already said, in the right direction. There should be more study advice, the young people should be better prepared for their studies, that is no question, all these measures are correct, but that does not prevent us from doing more than is now in it. Some of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have also said that there is still much to do, and that is what I agree with. If the SPÖ were to decide alone, the law we are adopting today would of course look something different, that's right, but it can't. But the measures put in place can also be said to go in the right direction and therefore deserve the support. One last thing I have to say: I would be a bad teacher of our group, if I did not point to the teacher problem which I see very dramatic in the field of compulsory education, but also in the AHS sector. There's massive hurry! It hurts me today: At the time, I discussed with young people, students, masters, when the letter from the former Minister of Science Elisabeth Gehrer was flattered in schools to learn and become everything, only not teachers, neither in compulsory school nor in the AHS field. And today we face the situation that we must be afraid that reforms that we are leading can not be implemented accordingly because we are in danger of having too few staff. It is quite important not only to create a new right of service, but also to put a new teacher training on the feet, to launch an image campaign – I also believe that one should start in schools – and to move young talented people to be enthusiastic about entering the teaching profession. We need bread for our future, for the future of future generations of teachers as necessary as a bite of bread. It is very important to start with these measures immediately. Therefore, we must do everything we can to train the best educators so that we also have the best teachers for our children. And I call on you to do so together with your colleague. This is the first task I see, that is the area where we need the most new students. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20137	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20158	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! The current amendment of the University Law is about a new regulation of the study entry and orientation phase – at last, I may say – but it is not a new restriction on access, which I would also like to comment on in detail here. As we know, the entry stage is the first part of the study. Within a semester, students are to get an overview of the essential contents of their studies. In the previous discussion process, I believe that some toxic teeth could be drawn to the draft, such as quantitative restrictions, which we clearly consider to be the wrong path. In my view, the regulation that the examinations during the study entry phase can usually only be repeated once is a wormhead drop. But we have already heard today that there are also exceptions to the rule, as, for example, the University of Vienna proves. However, since there are several exams to be completed during the study entry phase, there should be fair conditions for students. In addition, more advice and information is also planned before the selection of studies in the future. I think that is also very important. Therefore, advice on the choice of studies must take place very early, if possible in schools on the ground. In this context, the universities, the Ministry of Science and also the schools on the ground are undoubtedly required. Of course, as we know, this novelle in the university law cannot solve all the existing problems of universities. The higher education sector needs an offensive programme to enable higher education for wider sections of the population, and, of course, sufficient public funding to implement it. This is also to be worked on in the future, and there is no way to go.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20207	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20228	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Donabauer, even if you do not like to hear it: The fact is that the SPÖ is against quantitative restrictions. The fact is that we do not assume that this is the right way to stop admissions and admissions from Germany. [[Abg. Donabauer: The fact is that you are with us in the government and we are with you! That's fact!]] This is an issue that we need to solve at European level – it will hopefully be accepted by you. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this UG-Novelle is to create better management in the first semester and thus at the beginning of the study. I would now like to make a decision with our science spokesman, Mrs Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, who has succeeded in bringing about real improvements in the negotiations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you, Andrea, for your commitment – especially for the fact that there are no new access restrictions! We have heard the cornerstones several times today: In the study entry phase, Mrs. Minister, I also find a drops of advertising in the legal text, namely that the need for a working student should be taken into account if possible. I believe that when we speak of lifelong learning, it must also be possible at the universities to make appropriate offers for working students. Mr Lichtenecker has already pointed out how access to universities or the distribution of graduates is from a social point of view. However, the duration of the study depends not only on what people need to work by the way, but also on the lack of offers for working students. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also think that the following point is important when we talk about lifelong learning: If you do not create the entry stage in a course of study, I do not think that this should, so to speak, lead to life at this university. We know many people who then make a different study and in later years expect that it would be useful to study Jus or economics, for example, even if one did not manage the study at the beginning of the study. So we should find a smarter regulation, which does not exclude people in the long term, because, as has been said, the maturing process of man and also the career development may bring with it quite different requirements in later years. The third point that seems to me to be important is the study advice. I very much welcome it. I believe that, for example, the study inspector is a very good approach. But a very essential point is – and since our generation is probably damaged by our own study advice – the quality of this study advice as it actually takes place. This advice only makes sense if it really brings high-quality orientation, first orientation for the students, because the students really do not know in the standard what is happening to them in a study. Most of them are disappointed when they have to buff up items that they have not associated with their studies at all. And that's exactly what leads to the failure that none of us want. I would therefore appeal - the regulation we have is limited - that we consider how we can still achieve improvements which, in the sense of lifelong learning, mean better position for the people of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20283	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We shall come to the vote. Vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1079 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of this draft to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you agree to this proposal at third reading, I would ask you to give a sign. – This is decided by a majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Widmann...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20332	I'll just interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20360	I'll start the interrupted session again. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Widmann, colleagues and colleagues on measures to align the number of foreign students at Austrian universities to OECD average. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[18:36:26]] 5. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (878 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on scientific and technical cooperation (1080 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20409	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20439	Mr President. High house! An agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria is to be ratified. improved scientific and technical cooperation between these two countries. This agreement is important in order to link the Serbia, which has only recently returned to Europe from war reality, even more closely with Austria at a scientific level. Scientific-technical exchange usually means the encounter of people. The Federal Minister is also willing to provide a funding amount of €90 000 for this cooperation, for these encounters by young scientists. The agreement also includes the joint appearance of scientific and technical projects. Until recently, Serbia had been de facto cut off from contact at university level to the rest of the world due to the lack of visa regulations, especially the youth of Serbia. For not too long now, there have been visa provisions with corresponding agreements. It is gratifying that, on the one hand, the tow routes from Serbia to Austria are more or less dried out and that, on the other hand, on the basis of the long-standing exchange, a special accent is also set at university level, where we also meet Serbian friends within the framework of these cooperations, also through cooperation in the use of technical equipment that is not available everywhere. Mrs Bundesminister, thank you for this important, albeit small, accent. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20481	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20503	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This agreement is only a legal framework, so that there is no direct influence on the independent sphere of action of the countries. The aim is – we have already heard – to promote bilateral scientific and research relations. In particular, joint participation in European and other international research programmes should be encouraged and expanded. Among other things, this agreement constitutes an important contribution to the promotion of Austria's relations with the Republic of Serbia as a possible new, future EU Member State. EU competences will also be affected, as priority will be given to those forms of cooperation which are also projects under the EU's research and technology programmes. On the one hand, Mrs. Minister, we ask you that there are at last more such initiatives on your part. I have experienced this with a group of friends: There was a Montenegro project – including within the framework of an EU project – that asked us about safety in Austria and was here. There are such initiatives, such cooperation wishes repeatedly from new candidate countries, in which case it was the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister who set up the initiatives. I would ask you again that we, too, make such initiatives more effective, because I believe that the measures are also in the field of science and research, which have a lasting, very beneficial impact on our future. I I would like to ask you to be in charge of other such initiatives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20548	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20569	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! International and bilateral agreements to increase the mobility of researchers as well as teachers are in principle good. In particular with Serbia, the positive effects could be: The country was isolated by visa requirement, was economically on the ground and needs such support. New faces at Serbia's universities are not bad either, because I hear that relatively old cadres are still relatively rigorous. There the influence or a visit from the outside can only be useful. In principle, I would say, one has to leave time for this agreement to see what is going on – everything needs time – but then it would probably be useful to use resources and resources properly, to evaluate these things once too. An agreement with Mongolia, through which your predecessor then co-financed a Don-Giovanni performance, is, as it were, not necessarily a technological exchange, but a spirit of friendship, and there you need to differentiate a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20600	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20621	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The BZÖ also welcomes the agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Serbia on scientific and technical cooperation. It has already been mentioned: A maximum of € 90 000 is to be made available per year. However, I do not share Mrs Hakl's view of the ÖVP: I don't think the researchers used to get in through tow paths on illegal roads. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Me neither!]] – You could have understood that. I don't think so, and I won't. However, I give one thing to consider: We already have about 16 such agreements, and these agreements take time to grow, and so that we can see what will happen. It is unanimously said that they have a very positive impact on Austria's economic and research location. However, I am seeking to evaluate these 16 existing agreements at regular intervals after a few years, to question them in the sense of a cost-benefit account. I should like to point out that there has also been a programme in the House today to bring Members closer to effective management, and I think it would also be the right approach to do so here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20657	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20678	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We will also agree to this State Treaty, although some things may be a bit uncertain, for example if one writes in this Treaty that the Contracting Parties will take care of the procurement of adequate accommodation for the persons in exchange – what is an “adequate accommodation”? – and because they are also sufficiently insured – what is “a sufficient amount of health insurance”? But this may in case of doubt be clarified by the English version of this Treaty – this Treaty is drawn up in German, Serbian and English – because if the dispute arises, the English version will be used. A little wonder how it can be that according to the explanations these €90 000 are included in the budget, because the law does not think so. But this is not the biggest problem. What we see is that a Joint Commission is set up by the Parties to discuss all matters relating to the implementation of this Agreement. However, how this mixed Commission is composed is also the case of the competent ministry. One thing you must definitely be able to do: English is necessary for the members of this Commission because the working language is English. The tasks of this Joint Commission are within, it even stands inside, how often and where it is to meet – as it is composed, however, it cannot be seen from the explanations. We're excited who's being used by the ministry. But in principle we are in favour of this cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20715	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We shall vote on the request of the Scientific Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 878 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 point 1 B-VG to be authorised. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[18:46:01]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (1030 a.m._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Law on Water Law 1959 (1082 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 808/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in relation to quality regulation Ecology (1083 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 969/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in respect of compliance with drinking water information requirement (1084 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20785	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first honourable Member to speak is Mr Ing. Hofer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20812	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The last Committee on the Environment was a particularly interesting one for us, because we noted... [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The Minister! Where is he?]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich enters the plenary room and goes to his place on the government bank.]] Mr Federal Minister, this committee was particularly interesting to us because we have found that in many areas opposition parties' requests dominate committee work. Not only in the Committee on the Environment, but also in many other areas, it is true that the opposition parties working here in Parliament are actually concerned with the contents for Austria and are putting them in the form of applications. At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the government paper we are discussing here today was also discussed. Two requests were then put on the agenda by me – not at all requested by me, but that was thanks to God by the government parties – and I was very surprised at the fact that one was not willing to give them the consent regarding these really simple requests. One concerned a recommendation from the Federal Court of Auditors, which should have been implemented – this has not happened – and the second request concerned the issue of the announcement of water quality by the water associations. There it is, as you know, so that, by law, the customer, the compulsory customer, once a year – usually with the billing – is also notified to the water quality, and in many areas this does not happen. Therefore, our idea was simply to announce on a homepage what the water quality is like. – Unfortunately, this has not been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been dealing with the Euratom Treaty today, and we have not been aware at first of whether there will be an urgent one or not. We have therefore also decided that today we will try to put this issue on the agenda by means of a very creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. You know, of course, that nuclear power is inseparably linked to the question of water. There is a need for large amounts of water for nuclear power plants, and this is an ecological question, namely how the fish stock is, but the second question or the second issue is that the use of hydropower means, of course, that we need less nuclear power. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In response to the debate we had this morning, I should like to say once again: The government parties have put forward a number of arguments which, in their view, speak for the stay in the Euratom Community. I can understand very well what the ÖVP is about because, with the exception of Vorarlberg, the ÖVP is actually speaking out for the stay in Euratom in all areas. What I can't understand is that the SPÖ operates differently on different levels. At country level, there are clear decisions in many federal states to get out of the Treaty, and here in the National Council is exactly the opposite. . I know from many country politicians that one does not really agree with this content orientation. We are convinced that we must make every effort to promote renewable energy in Austria, because we must also try to become more independent. The development in North Africa shows us that fossil energy sources will not, of course, be cheaper, that we are getting into a fatal dependence and that only Austria, which has such a rich wealth of renewable energy sources, must also benefit from this treasure. We have hydropower, which should be further expanded – here also the full support of our own side – we have the opportunity to use the wind power with a meaningful spatial planning. There should not be a wind power plant in every village, but there are areas in Austria where this makes sense. There is the geothermal system – in Upper Austria there is a new large plant – there are biomass that can be used usefully, and of course there is the photovoltaic that is a real technology for the future. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] At some point, we hope to implement this vision of an Austria, which is free from energy imports – which, of course, is trading, but which has the possibility of being able to provide for itself. I hope that we will succeed at some point in time and that we will be able to make the right choices today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20890	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20954	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20976	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear High House! We negotiate the Water Law Act and, as a key reason for the changes in the law, have an EU directive, the EU High Water Framework Directive to be implemented. We have used this to take part in some other issues and to make improvements in the Water Law Act. Water is our great common treasure – not only as an energy source, but primarily as a basis of life, as a basis for the fertility of our soils, but of course as a direct food for humans. We in Austria have a special position because we believe that water in nature should be as pure as possible and practically in de facto drinking water quality everywhere. Few countries in Europe can discuss such a thing at all and find it in this width. As in Austria, there is hardly any other way. The problem with water is: It's never in the right crowd. Either there is too little – then we speak of drought and drought; then we try to regulate the use of water from the crowd – or there is too much, then we speak of floods, floods, high ground water levels – and this also makes people trouble, and even there we try to intervene regulately. The purpose of this directive is to enforce the identification of risk areas for floodwater – and we have come to an interesting point here: During the negotiation, when the law was drawn up, it turned out that the responsibilities of the communities were also required. We know: To protect the flood, everyone first has to take care of themselves. What he himself cannot solve will solve the community together for those affected. What the community alone cannot solve is that of several communities, or of the country or of the covenant. And so there is the Forced Association instrument, so that communities can or must be merged if it is known that the region is at risk. And since it has been important to me to lay down in the law that it cannot be a personal liability of the mayor if such a merger does not come about. And so we have now foreseen that a project should first be available so that, if you know who is inside the project, you can actually build such a meaningful flood measure with opportunities for realization and implement it when the communities and the mayors know what they have to do. Other points that were important to us were those which, among other things, affected the change in the use of water. I am referring to the fact that there are transverse structures that may have supplied a mill with water. If you want to install a generator there, this can happen if the water drain is not changed. This is a change in usage, which would be possible easily. This change of purpose in the display procedure may also apply to other points. Fish uprising aid was an important issue in the negotiations – these are also to be re-regulated – and – which is particularly important to me – we were able to enforce some of the points that our ideas of administrative reform have been put into effect. More administrative reform points, i.e. reliefs in the daily course, would have been right for me. This was not quite easy in the negotiation with our coalition partner, but we finally found common solutions. Water law works best when it's inspectacular, because then it can work on a sustainable basis. We are not talking about sustainability, we are delighted about that. Our Federal Minister Niki Berlakovich is the one who is the best guarantee that water law is actually implemented. – I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21033	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21054	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen, seers and seers! Mr Hofer has already predicted: In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, there have been very many proposals – not only in the last session, but also in the previous ones. Two of his applications were put to the plenary from the opposition. All other opposition applications have suffered fate that they continue to remain in the postponement loop. Now, briefly, to the requests we have on the agenda: We will agree to this, namely, with regard to drinking water quality information, because of course it is welcome if customers get more information. We will not agree to the proposal on the quality regulation – not because we are different in content, but because the regulation has already been adopted and it has already been implemented. I think there are enough environmental issues that have not yet been implemented that we could address. As I said, there were some applications in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Euratom has already been a major topic today. After our request was signed in the Committee on the Environment, we have today called for urgent consideration of an application. Again: On the other hand, there is no understanding that, apart from the issues of content, so many people who volunteer for this initiative are not taken seriously, because our request has also referred to a referendum. I am very sorry that the government seems to be afraid to let the people vote on the exit from Euratom. But there were also two more requests from us that have not been made today. On the one hand, it was about the coal power plant in Voitsberg, which is to be put into operation again. From my point of view, it is completely counterproductive, air-conditioned and, as I believe, does not correspond to your energy strategy if you seriously mean it. I think it is strange when you are in the region and there you hear regional Members who always say: We don't need a power plant like this, we'll do everything we can to prevent that! But every time we have to determine the rules for the approval of such power plants, which we define here, we Greens are relatively alone with the demand for reinforcements, so that such power plants do not come. The second request has affected the reduction of packaging materials and a ban on plastic sacks. I just think it's crazy how much is unnecessarily packed in Austria. Plastic sacks are pretty much the most unnecessary environmental pollution! There are a lot of initiatives, and at the latest since "PLASTIC PLANET" we also know that plastic is not only an ecological problem but also a health problem. I recommend the film to you, Minister of Agriculture. – This request has unfortunately been postponed. However, we will continue to take initiatives in this direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now to the Water Law Act: I agree with you that there are some positive approaches, such as the fact that fish uplifting aid is now mandatory or deadlines have been set for the rehabilitation programmes and that there are also standards of public relations. All of this is to be welcomed from a green point of view. In our opinion, however, we also lack some, which is why we cannot give our consent. There has been the FloodRisk II project, which unfortunately has not been implemented in this law. For example, there are no mandatory measures regarding passive flood protection, that renaturation areas are kept free for flood protection. The authorisation is not extended from “HAKU 30”, 30-year-old flood protection, to “HAKU 100”, 100-year-old flood protection. I find it somewhat strange that the environmental spokesperson of the ÖVP particularly emphasizes the fact that there is a simplified procedure, and there is only one advertising procedure for some projects. Advertising procedures instead of a conventional authorisation procedure always mean the elimination of the arrants and the elimination of the environment. And that's from an environmental speaker! This is where we know how it is about the environmental policy of the ÖVP. This is certainly not our access to environmental policy and to in-house protection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are, of course, committed to renewable energy sources. We must necessarily go into the use of renewable energy sources, and that is where hydropower belongs. Nevertheless, there must be a sensitive handling of our natural resources, especially in the field of hydropower potential, because this is already very sophisticated in Austria. From our point of view, there is no adequate protection with the legal framework that we currently find. Today we have also dealt with a petition which unfortunately has not been received in the legal regulations. That is why we do not agree to this. Again: I am sorry that not all the environmental initiatives we debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and all of us here find the way to the plenary session so that the public can share what is going on in environmental policy. I think that would be very good for Austria, because it is not too good for environmental policy in Austria. There's a lot more commitment, much more initiative, much more public. Not least because of this, I believe that Austria needs a strong, committed and independent Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21136	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21157	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the water law law, I would like to say that I too have been very concerned about the question of fish passability, the fish uphill aid, because I am convinced that it is very important for the ecological quality of the waters that the types of direct fish and the typical accompanying fish have the opportunity to overcome them where there are technical transverse structures, especially when they are lying in rivers. There has happened in the past, long before our time, a lot of ecological sins – that is what I may call them. For example, the nuisance that used to be native to our waters has been eradicated because it has no longer been able to achieve its important lay targets. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] To see that one builds fish passersby, fish uplift aids that really match the last state of the art, which is also accepted by the fish, which is currently only about 50 percent, is an important challenge. There will be a manual on the part of the Ministry of the Environment, which will always publish the latest state of the art. This seems to me to be a very good regulation in this new draft. In this context, it is also important to me that, if the federal states The Authority shall allow exceptions to the construction of fish uprising aid to allow countries to notify these derogations to the Confederation within 14 days. I think that is also important because the federal government is thus getting an overview of the reasons for such exceptions, and then can respond in a professional way to them in terms of the quality of fish uplift aid. On the other hand We have granted the Federation the possibility of an official complaint, where I believe that this is also important so that the derogations do not exploit due to a fact or in a particular federal country. In this context, I would like to make a request from colleagues Schultes and Bayr to the Government Template 1030 of the Supplements to the Federal Law amending the Water Law Act 1959, as amended by the Committee's report (1082 of the Supplements). This is an editorial change because something has been mentioned twice what we have decided in the Committee. But of course it should only happen in paragraph 2 once. I'm going to explain accordingly. That means: “2. In § 12a, Abs. 3 the name of the paragraph...’
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21199	Dear Mrs Colleague! Excuse me, but you have to read this text, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21215	All right, then I'll delight you with the wonderful reading of a law text, which always inspires us all. The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: 1. Z 2 reads: ‘2. In § 12a, Abs. 3 the term ‘(4)’; the following paragraph 3 is inserted as follows: ‘(3) The state of the art shall be complied with in all water use systems and measures subject to this Federal Act, in accordance with the following provisions and the regulations based on this Federal Act. In so far as the applicant proves that the state of the art cannot be complied with in the individual case, due to particular circumstances, with an economically reasonable effort. Technically impossible to produce, authorisation with less stringent regulations may be granted if this can be temporarily accepted with regard to the water economic conditions given. Such an exception shall be provided for a short period of time and with the necessary provisions, conditions or secondary provisions. The application shall be accompanied by the documents necessary for its examination, in particular those referred to in § 103. Decisions granting a derogation from the state of the art shall be submitted to the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water within two weeks of their legal status, following the decision-making documents. It may raise appeals against such decisions to the Constitutional Court. The period of appeal shall begin with the submission of the notice and the documents to the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management.’ 2. The Introductory Order '28. § 55g Abs. 1 Introductory part and Z 1 read:’.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21263	Mrs. Colleague! Only for the protocol a correctness: I assume you did not mean the Constitutional Court, but the Administrative Court. [[Abg. Bayr: Yes, you're right!]] All right, that'll fit. Then I would like to thank you for the submission of this request, which is sufficiently supported and is therefore a motion for an amendment. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21345	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21366	Mr President. Federal Minister! The last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was once again an excellent schooling for younger Members, as one postpones applications that are actually reasonable. That's all you can say. Now there is a study by the BOKU, which says that 70 percent of Austrian waters are installed or stowed and that a maximum of 33 percent of waters are ecologically healthy. There is an evaluation of the BOKU between 1 and 5, in which the Austrian waters are evaluated by 3.7. In this study, the BOKU points out that each further expansion of hydropower is moving us towards Note 5. What does our Federal Government do? What she's doing is just lip recognition. One could make a reasonable policy and say: Now, like in Germany, we make a decent eco-strom law and see that the electricity companies no longer make millions of profits that will be invested in photovoltaic plants, that the profits will be converted to farmers! But no, that's not going to be done. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] An example: In East Tyrol, a natural jewel that is undoubtedly East Tyrol, TIWAG, which by the way has made 105 million € in profits, now wants to install nine rivers. There is a report in the “Small Newspaper” of yesterday, which mentions the Tauernbach, the Isel, the Schwarzach, the Debantbach. All of these are natural jewels. The Isel is the last glacial river of the eastern Alps that is untouched. That's where the TIWAG wants to build power plants?- Oh, my God! On the other hand, it announces that electricity prices are increased by at least 6 percent this year. Yes, please, we have to ask: Get down with the electricity prices by 10 percent! With these € 105 million we can build photovoltaic systems throughout Tyrol. No one needs the TIWAG to make these profits! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let's make a policy with heart, brain and house mind! [[Abg. Obernosterer: Just like you!]] As we do, yes! Look at the tourism association Lienz: This is over-indebted with €3.8 million, for which only ÖVP State Secretary Remler is responsible! Today, the Tyrolean government has stopped and stopped all payments – without looking for the guilty! This is politics in Tyrol! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] I can only tell you: It's true, too! Enough paid! We from BZÖ say: We've paid more than enough! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And the Secretary of State should finally be held responsible and say what really happened there and where these millions have been moved.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21428	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21449	Mr President. High house! From the Tyrolean mountains back to the Water Law Act. With today's decision, we have certainly set a milestone in Austrian water policy, because the novelle is a very important one and sets key priorities. Firstly, we are implementing the EU High Water Framework Directive. This means that we have a better protection of our population from floods, from natural hazards. Secondly, we are implementing measures for rivers and lakes close to nature, which is particularly important for future generations. If young people are sitting here today, I would like to tell them that it is also about maintaining our unique nature, the river and lake landscape for these generations. And third important point is administrative simplification. We rely on less administration and thus on a more modern and effective administration. I can therefore take a positive view of water policy, because the Water Law is the result of a total of six years of intensive work, where the countries, NGOs, fisheries associations, the economy, agriculture, water supply, all stakeholders were involved – a comprehensive work. I do not know a policy project that has been subject to such a strong public participation procedure. The National Water Management Plan, which I signed last year, is a total of six months upscale, and it has enabled all citizens to submit their comments. In total, there have been 400 opinions, through the involvement of the public, because this should be a very transparent system – that was my concern – so that we have for the first time in water policy a planning package for the protection of our waters and therefore also our water and above all a timetable by 2027. The National Water Management Plan is divided into three time sections: in the period up to 2015 and then in the next two periods until 2027, where we want to make train around train the ecological state of our waters. To clarify: Our lakes have drinking water quality. The chemical quality of our rivers is also fine. The ecological condition is bad for two thirds of our waters. This not only says the BOKU, but also other institutions say that. It is therefore bad because of the lack of fish passivity due to transverse structures, whether hydroelectric or other transverse structures, or flood protection facilities. Therefore, our aim is to make a part of these waters fish in a first step by building up fish ascent aid for power plants and similar installations. It costs the public hand a lot. I have set up a programme with a volume of €140 million, to which both the municipalities and the energy industry can use to implement fish uptake aid. For example, at the Freudnau power plant on the Danube, a giant plant, a fish ascent aid was built to restore the good ecological condition. And that's what this is all about. With the decision of the Water Law Act, we have worked out the projects we have undertaken in the government programme for the water industry. That's a very encouraging thing. They see that we work intensively and with high pressure. In this context, I would also like to thank the staff of the Ministry of Life, my house, who worked intensively on it, in all the sections affected. Thank you for that. But thanks also to the countries, NGOs, the E-Economics, all the institutions involved for the constructive dialogue and for the relevant cooperation. I would like to mention a few points – first of all the Flood Framework Directive. With this we have a new era in flood protection in Europe: We will have uniform risk zones in the future, based on uniform flood risk maps. This means that every Austrian can see for himself the extent to which his soil and soil are affected by flood. And there are the planning bodies, the municipalities, local spatial planning, the spatial planning of the countries, so that an important information portal where they can see how the flood situation is. We will gradually also promote flood protection. When it came to budget renovation, I did not shorten the area of flood protection because climate change is expected to increase the number of floods or extreme weather events. That is why we want to invest in greater security together with the municipalities and the countries. The second point: This amendment of the Water Law Act is also important so that we can implement the National Water Management Plan. As I said, by the year 2027. It is now the case that national leaders are given the opportunity to arrange fish-passibility, uplift aid for existing hydropower plants or transverse structures so that we can comply with the European Union's requirements in time. There are countries on the train to ensure that by appropriate regulations. And the third point is administrative simplification. The Water Law Act dates back to 1959. There have been several novels since then, and it was important that we make simplifications with this novelle. Now we need to increase the efficiency of power plants, i.e. if, for example, there is a turbine exchange, not a new procedure, but only a display procedure. It already makes sense – without losing quality in nature and environmental protection and without narrowing civil rights – to do not have to do an additional complex procedure when it comes to a turbine exchange. There is also a simplified procedure for global heating plants. All this is intended to contribute to the implementation of the Austrian Energy Authority. Today's situation in North Africa, the revolution there leads to an increase in the oil price, and no one can resist it. Therefore, it is necessary to get out of this dependence on energy supply from abroad and an energy autarchy of Austria. That's my plan for Austria. [[Abg. May. Brunner: But you stay in Euratom!]] No one says it's easy. No one says that! Only: Tell me an alternative, how you want to make sure that in the coming years and decades, the Austrian population has enough energy if it depends on crisis regions, where the oil price can suddenly be lost and then people can no longer afford the energy. Therefore: Energy autarchy does not just mean a More renewable energy, as provided for in the Water Law Act, repowering, turbine exchange, global heat generation plants, but of course also energy efficiency and energy saving. In conclusion: This novel is an important step towards joint natural hazards management in Austria and Europe in order to protect our population. It is an important step in efficient and modern administration and is above all the basis for having healthy water for future generations. I would like to thank all those who have done something positive about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21488	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21509	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has the director who is now in the debate. In this context, it is important to clarify the details of the EU High Water Framework Directive in detail. That's why I can take a short look at this. To sum up, I would like to say that with this government template, we are creating a legislative work that allows active flood protection in the appropriate way. The ecological condition of our waters will also be better in the future due to the various aids that this new law makes possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21541	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21563	Mr President. Federal Minister! I refer to the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the request of Mrs Ing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the obligation of drinking water providers to provide information on the quality of drinking water for citizens. I've heard interesting things today. It doesn't look as good with the Austrian water as you think. That's a glorification, because it's quite clear: If I measure something and I have 20 parameters, then I can always feel whether they are good or bad, but if I assume that there are 200 or 300 pesticides and fungicides or even more, then I have to say quite openly, then there is a lot missing. I would now like to say something about nitrate and pesticides. I also heard from the previous speaker of the ÖVP: Water is a food. That is why I would also like to change my remarks. Did you know from and for yourself that, for example, sprays usually appear in no analysis? [[Abg. Hornek: That is wrong, Mr. Cot.]] Fertilizer residues represent a grey zone? Nitrates, nitrites in the water are treated with chlorine according to the number of germs? Do dioxins reach the groundwater as a feed? Still seeds, artificial fertilizers, unsecured garbage dumps, old, faded water pipelines represent biological and anti-life bombs? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But this also applies, please, to overlong pipelines where germinations take place. You can come to me, and look at filter systems that can be more than what is tested. But maybe for the hunters, too. Only the lead that comes from hunting may not be so exciting, but it's still enough. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But what is being investigated? - Don't laugh! The official values are examined. If I examine something little – but there is much more. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] On and on, only the bacterial or chemical examination is carried out. [[Abg. Eßl: Mr Colleague, why are you still alive?]] I tell you, it's too little researched, because anthraces, pesticides, fungicides, fluor – does that sound really good? [[Abg. Eßl: Why are you still alive?]] Or acid rain: Is there not that about the industrial cities either? – The acid rain descends, please beautiful, mixes in the earth, dissolves components, and these components go into groundwater. Never heard of it? From aluminum, fluorine, sulphate and all the dirt that we carefully distribute over the fields, over the meadows, and perhaps some of them even deposit on their land? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or the sewage works: another great theme! Please, the sewage sludge is so wonderfully applied to the fields. But do you know that drug residues cannot be cleared? – That is, these residues come over the sewage sludge, come over the plants, come over the animals, come over the food, come over the people, even to your children we have talked about this morning. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek:... the water stands up to the neck!]] [[Abg. Eßl: Then why did you survive until now?]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Because I also handle the water as it needs to be treated – that may be a good statement. But I say, and I'll do it briefly: If many substances do not yet have names, what does the best water test help? What's going to be investigated? – Most of the diseases come through the water, that's what old Louis Pasteur found. But I quote you, "a food number 1". Three quarters of our earth are covered with water, plants have 20 to 100 percent water, the human being consists of two thirds of water. Please, water is a solvent, and that's what it's all about! Water shortage and lack of water quality are the causes of many diseases in the high-tech world. This is our world, about which we can all laugh important and funny. Then ask me why people drink less and less water. Who really drinks so much water here? – This is about the industry, about the PET bottles, but that's not a good water anymore. Food is the water, and food number 1 is water, but it is more than H2O. Vivid water is a source of energy and information between organs. It's inside the cells and outside the cells. In conclusion, two or three sentences: Blood is 55 percent blood plasma, 90 percent water. The brain, please, has the largest water content after water. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] Water plays a major role throughout the organism as a corresponding element in and outside the cells. And water, when some ladies and gentlemen look at each other, is a good balance between acids and bases. Look at you, then you'll know how great that is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say: Any violation of the increased water quality is a crime to the population, to the health of the citizens and of the children today much quoted! Goethe made it much shorter than I could: “The soul of man is like the water: From heaven it comes, to heaven it ascends, and again to earth it has to change forever.” By the way, a small addition, an addition for all who are against the obligation of military: Did you actually think that Libyan terrorists or anyone else who doesn't need to come with a tank army today? – Three, four people are sufficient to contaminate our partially unsecured floodwater tanks to contaminate drinking water tanks. [[Abg. Riepl: “High - Water Containers ”?]] [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: High spring water!]] [[Further calls.]] Yes, of course! Remember where the water comes from if you take it exactly. That's the story. One request, please, for example, the southern Styrian water operator, because here is laughed so cheerfully: They wish for even more controls from the monitoring of the water. That is what they wish for, not annually, but also underage. They wish for independent environmental advisors in terms of water. You drink the water, your children drink it and your future generations. I thank you for the attention. Think a little bit, it's your own life! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21744	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21765	Mr President. Minister! High house! The fact that the water law novelle is finally decided and implemented today – and we have heard from our Minister before – is certainly a command of the hour and an important step in the right direction. There is now a better planned flood protection and a good federal legal basis for cooperation between the federal government and countries. Each of the waters in Austria is assessed according to the flood risk, from which maps are drawn up and also developed appropriate management plans. Housings, facilities and public facilities shall not be exposed to a flood risk in these assisted spaces. Of course, damage is avoided and human suffering – which is also very important – is prevented. Another aspect of fish ecology has been taken into account: Improved ascent aids according to the latest technology must enable a fish passage in all rivers. As 50 percent of these fish uptake aids do not work at the moment, a guide for their functionality should be quickly drawn up and implemented. The mandatory construction of fish upholstery aid for new buildings is also an essential point, and I think that one must also mention it very probably. In the case of unwarranted derogations, there will be the possibility of an official complaint on the part of the Federal Government in the future. An important concern of SPÖ was also addressed. At the last round of negotiations on this novel, I was allowed to be there. I would like to take the opportunity today and here to thank our environmental spokesman Penny Bayr, who was responsible for the leadership, on behalf of the SPÖ: Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21803	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21824	Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to remind you once again: The EU High Water Framework Directive would have been transposed by 2009. – So much to your working methods, to speed, to the efficiency of implementation. [[Abg. Rädler:... now the water!]] We have also made some very positive comments on this presentation – and we also see that in one area or another, for example, fish uprising aid or rehabilitation commitments, steps have been taken that we recognize. But – and this is not essential – there are some open points that, from our point of view, simply do not allow us to agree. To name just one: The removal of water for irrigation purposes has also been completely unfounded, from ten to twelve years. That's just an example, that's a very sensitive point. You have taken the word climate protection into your mouth today in your statement. They have reported on the importance of climate protection and the importance of climate action within this overall perspective. Yes, that's our opinion, too – but then you can't, especially in the case of irrigation, extend the deadlines and provide for longer periods! Why, colleague Schultes? – Because we may get serious groundwater problems. They did want me to know in the committee that the groundwater stocks are increasing in Austria; yes, that was very interesting. When I asked you where that says how these studies look and where you can read it, I have not received an answer until today. I'm very curious about that. The question, therefore, is how this is combined in view of climate change, which we simply need to see, and also of increased withdrawals of water. This is also a matter of water consumption. We are blessed in Austria with water, which is not a question – but not in all areas – but if we look into Europe as to whether it is in Spain or Romania, then we see that there are definitely massive problems with water supply. I would therefore like to refer once again to Mr Hofer's report on compliance with the obligation to provide information on drinking water. We shall vote in favour of this request. It is entirely justified because the citizens of course have an interest in knowing the quality of their water. Is it all right? Is there an increase in nitrates, yes or no? - Again, Minister of State: In the National Water Management Plan, this analysis clearly shows that nitrate levels are increasing. Increasing, ladies and gentlemen – and you always say it's all efficient, it works! I call you a practical example now, and it would be interesting what you would reply to it. A concrete problem area has been the Leibnitzerfeld for years. There we have 38 municipalities, which concern 100 000 customers, which concerns the districts of Graz-Umgebung, Leibnitz, Deutschlandsberg and Voitsberg. [[the speaker stresses the first syllable of the word]] [[Abg. Silhavy: German mountain!]] – German mountain, thanks! There we have the situation that, as a result of a new, necessary regulation of the State of Styria from 2007, which has led to a strengthening of the application conditions for fertilisers, because nitrate values had increased – i.e. a completely justified procedure – farmers are now demanding compensation payments. That means they say: We're allowed to fertilize less. That's curious! If good agricultural practice looks like water pollution is, as it were, a part of the management, and if one wants to limit it, Mr Gaßner, then the farmers come and say: we want to get money for it – that costs €400 000 in the case and should bring to consumers about 30 percent increase in water – if that goes on what happens in the Styria, then we know what it means for the whole of Austria, if it becomes a precedent! [[Abg. May. Gässner: Contract water protection!]] As Minister for the Environment, as Minister for the Environment, you are very determined to align the good agricultural practice, Mr Eßl, so that groundwater is secured by a good agricultural mode of production, which produces high quality food and also ensures water well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl]] This will be a nail sample on which we are already very excited! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21915	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21937	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! When I recall Mr. Josef Riemer's speech, I must say: Prophylactic fear of H2O as a summary consideration of his speech, which has little to do with the reality of water supply and water management in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this novel has been prepared in constructive cooperation by those responsible at the federal level, in the various federal states and with those concerned accordingly. There has been a constructive dialogue, for which I thank the Federal Minister and all his employees who have contributed here. It is not just a food issue, it is a means of survival! Water is not to be thought away in any area on our continent. What I am very pleased about in this context is that we have also found solutions that will reduce the administrative burden of advertising procedures in the future. I am very pleased that in the field of hydropower, for example in the turbine exchange, it is possible to get through with much less effort. I am also pleased that this makes global heat collectors much easier to implement. As a affected person, I can say – you hardly believe it, even if you live on the European headwater divorce, where you could assume that floods are not going to be a problem there – it was my home region affected by two massive floods. There is thus a much greater awareness of the problem not only of decision-makers but also of the population concerned. We need to note that water needs time to flow. We must note that water also needs space to be held back accordingly in order to prevent damage in those areas that are populated. We therefore have a basis that we also have good ecological conditions, because there is a general obligation for fish passability as part of the implementation of the natural river approach. And we have laid a foundation with this legislation that we can work out healthy water for the next generations together.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21986	Next speaker – with a second word message –: Mr Riemer. – But he's not in the hall. That is why Mr Plessl is next to the speaker. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22010	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor of a municipality in Marchfeld and as a regional parliament from the Weinviertel, I expressly welcome today's amendment to the Law on Water Law. Especially flood 2002 at the camp, or flood 2006 at Thaya and March, many citizens are still in very bad memory. However, in order to be able to carry out really efficient and comprehensive flood protection, we need to clarify some issues. First of all: Where's the danger? – In other words, an assessment of the risk of flooding and the consideration of areas with potentially significant flood risks. Secondly, Who has how to react? – That means: Preparation of flood risk management plans to ensure timely implementation of necessary measures. And thirdly, What is necessary to eliminate the danger possibly in advance? – This means responding quickly in case of need, setting up structural measures, taking into account priorities and financial opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, I still see a problem coming to the communities, the federal government and the countries. This is about those areas that are perhaps already dedicated and are now being thrown out as flood risk areas. There are still further talks to be held, as the following is to be explained: What happens to the already dedicated buildings? How do we continue to behave, or who is responsible for impairment? – The local authorities are here applying for reorientation, the state governments are devoting themselves to, and the federal government is responsible for defining the flood risk areas. In this respect, we need to have further discussions to find a solution. In conclusion: In a brief look at the National Water Management Plan, allow me some comments. It is about those regions – as in Marchfeld – in which we have had problems with the groundwater level. I would therefore like to thank the Federal Government, the Land and Minister Berlakovich very much for the support they have given in dealing with the tasks for the Tullnerfeld, Seyring and Marchfeld regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22047	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22068	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It's a correction. Don't be deceived by false prophets! Austria is one of the countries with excellent drinking water, Austria is famous for this. I would therefore like to reject this fascism speech by my colleague from the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! International companies are trying to buy drinking water in Austria. We have a speech here, where, on the one hand, the concept is misargued and on the other, a description of the situation – in the field of drinking water and its control – is provided, on the other hand, which does not correspond to reality. Mr Riemer! Has You ever read the drinking water information regulation? Has You read about the parameters you need to examine? – After microbiological parameters as well as after chemical! Austria can be proud of its drinking water. We will not vote in favour of this resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats because Parliament cannot decide on a mandate to the Minister for Agriculture. The Minister for Health is responsible for the drinking water information regulation. If you're analyzing, then it's about executing the operators' own controls. I am willing to discuss this issue with you in the Health Committee. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, in short, to the Water Law Act. On behalf of my group, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you for your offer to set up a working group where the problems still open to the countries and communities are discussed, namely, what is actually happening to land which is now in the building land and which can then appear in a so-called danger map and can no longer be built. I think it is necessary for us to give a clear signal to the population who is liable for this inferior value of the land. I can invite all of you to agree to this law. I think it is an excellent law of this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22125	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22147	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I would like to continue where my colleague Jacky Maier stopped. At the end of the speeches I would like to replicate a little on the saying. To my colleague, Mr Riemer, you have already said what you think and what you think in this room, I think, a lot of people think. As a passionate water drinker, I would almost no longer have dared to do a swallow – that is all I want to say. To my colleague from Tyrol, Mr Huber – I do not see him right now, but the colleagues from the BZÖ will say that to him: I can't leave three statements in the room like that. He said: If the Committee's debates and the way in which the applications are dealt are put to the fore, then this is a school example of how to postpone applications. . I cannot understand this at all because three points are now being dealt with on this item on the agenda, two of which are requests rejected by the Committee. Mr Huber would have to explain his argument to me. To the TIWAG winners that no one is supposed to need: I can't understand. The Tiroler Landesbudget is also largely dependent on the fact that the many millions of dividends flow from TIWAG to the Landesbudget. And last but not least: We from the SPÖ – and there we see ourselves in a boat with the coalition partner – are generally very good for the hydropower. Of course, with a certain but, but for that we have a legal framework, which we naturally adhere to. That would be what I would have to say on this subject. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22180	As the last speaker, Mr Stauber spoke on these agenda items. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22201	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many of the points I wanted to mention have already been raised. Minister! I have already said it in committee: A major problem is that of the new risk zone plans we have in the communities. However, they are positive because they are an essential contribution to future planning, to spatial planning in the Congregations are a great help for us and for us communities. I would nevertheless like to address a subject. We are all proud that we bring clean, healthy drinking water to the last regions of our communities. As we have the problem in the municipalities, in the rural regions, that this long network of lines is now coming into being fairly slowly and that we do not have to invest so many more investments in new extensions of the network, but in the renovation of these facilities – we need to invest a lot of money. I really would have the request and the concern that the renovation should be promoted accordingly, because we communities will not do this alone. It is not possible to impose additional charges on citizens. Therefore, my request, Mr Minister: Help the communities and ultimately our citizens in this sector! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22247	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Law on Water Law 1959 in 1082 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Schultes, Bayr, colleagues, and others have tabled an amendment which refers to paragraphs 2 and 28. In view of the fact that there is only one request, we shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Ing. Schultes, Bayr, colleagues. Whoever stands up for it, he asks for a sign of consent. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Neubauer, colleagues and colleagues on the exit of Austria from the Euratom Treaty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1083. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1084 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[19:47:59]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment 1384/A by Mr Fritz Grillitsch, Mr Josef Muchich, Mr Muchich, on a federal law amending the Old Load Rehabilitation Act (1085 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22350	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Brunner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22377	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen, seers and seers! Old load renovation is an important instrument to eliminate even old loads, landfills that still exist in Austria. It is an important measure for environmental protection to clean up our environment. Unfortunately, the revenue generated by the old-age recovery contributions, both by the federal states and by the economy, has fallen in recent years, so that it is not entirely certain how the objectives can be achieved here. The situation was all the more controversial when it came to budget creation. We have strongly criticised the fact that further restrictions have been imposed here, namely the abolition of the purpose of the old-age reorganisation contributions and the funds that come here are now partly in the general budget of the Minister of Agriculture – and are no longer exclusively available to the old-age recovery. We see this as highly critical, because it has moved the renovation of the old loads in Austria almost to the next century and cannot be removed in a timely manner, as we have in Vienna Neustadt, for example. We have already massively criticized this before budget creation. But not only we, very many, were actually all the opinions that existed at the time were negative. Also, there has been massive criticism from the countries – including the economic operators who have to pay these old-age contributions – that I do not want to say that these contributions, which are actually intended for the renovation of old-age loads, are now being sent somewhere in the budget of the Minister of Agriculture, but are still going down. And no one knows exactly what happens to it, although we would need it very, very urgently in the old load renovation. However, further exceptions have now been introduced in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which means that there are further exceptions to slags made of steelworks or to demolition materials, i.e. a further reduction of the old load recovery contributions – and we cannot agree with that. That is what I ask you, Minister: How do you want to ensure that the old loads in Austria are properly rehabilitated – if you are gradually reducing the budget or budget available for old-age rehabilitating? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: A good question!]] What do you think until when you can fulfill that? We fear that this cannot be achieved and that these goals, namely the renovation, will be postponed on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day or on the next generations. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's it!]] There is certainly no agreement on this from a green point of view! Apart from the old loads, there are many other problems in the environment. There is also a certain level of waste, for example. I would also like to have much more discussion. In Austria, as has been said, we have a wild increase in waste incinerators; we have an unlawful state as regards the multi-way quotas; we have packaging without end, there is nothing going on in the ban on plastic sacks. So we need not only to start with the restoration of old loads, but generally in waste policy in Austria, because, unfortunately, prevention is no longer the top priority here. There's a lot to do. Mr Minister, I call on you to put emphasis on this area, because at national level we have many opportunities to achieve very much. I'd like to. I'm sorry to miss this so far. By the way, I still believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22442	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22464	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Appreciate High House! First of all, I should like to make a request for reading. An editorial error is corrected. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Again?- Oh, my God!]] - Yeah, I don't know where that comes from either. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: A little cleaner work!]] – If I had thought so, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I am allowed to read – and please let me read, this is a funny text. Just watch out! [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the ALSAG contribution. I have a point that I really like. It is striking that precisely this point does not like the green. We have lost old houses in many communities with low building prices, i.e. in regions where emigration is a problem. Old houses are not bought, no longer cleaned away, it is no longer newly built – because many simply do not want to do away with the cost of the premises and the costs of depositing the remaining quantities or the ALSAG contributions are an additional obstacle to them. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Perhaps this is due to the missing construction policy?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, we cannot solve the fundamental problems of the weak regions, but if we no longer recover the ALSAG contribution from buildings that were built before 1955, or for a maximum of 200 tonnes – if anything else that could be used – we can at least indicate that we are proposing a bar to unnecessary land consumption in these regions. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Thank you. It is simply about bringing existing open land back into the cores of the towns to people who want to live there, who want to build to save ourselves from using new construction land, new earth, new land for settlements. This is an essential aspect of this law. The second point, namely that of rehabilitation of legal uncertainty with blast furnace slags, is an important point, which is particularly important for individual businesses and which ensures proper use in road construction as well. Ladies and gentlemen! These are two simple points, important regulations. I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22567	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22637	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22658	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! This is about the amendment to the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. The previous speaker and the previous speaker have already reported some of this in terms of content. The fact is that this is an orderly use of quality-secured steelworks slags, which, according to this amendment, should no longer be subject to contributions. This ambiguity is intended to eliminate this legal uncertainty in order to ensure that there are clear conditions. The fact is, there was, of course, an occasion for this. There is only one company in Austria that produces reinforcement steel, the so-called rib gate steel, and that is the Marienhütte in Graz. With this contribution obligation, although this has already been established in the area of road construction, where this slag has been installed, one would have been very concerned about this company in terms of company existence and jobs. This is, as has been said, the only company in Austria that produces defence steel. This would have put 350 jobs directly at risk in Graz and throughout the group of companies, with its suppliers a total of 1,200 jobs. I would like to take the opportunity to thank the club members of the two government parties who were willing to become active in this case and to support this amendment, including the experts in the two clubs and all those parties who are going to vote in favour of this amendment today. It's a shame the greens aren't here. According to my information, it looked something different in the club. [[Abg. May. Brunner: No,...!]] The fact is to secure with your consent today They are not only the business location in Graz, but also the existence of jobs, income and purchasing power. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22696	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22717	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I can actually recover from both arguments, both those of Mr Muchich and that of Mr Schultes. That was also the reason why we also voted in committee on this request and will do so today. But, of course, on one point, Mr Brunner is right. Mr Federal Minister, I would have liked you to really deal with the issue of ALSAG, because you know what the abolition of this purpose means, that is, this money. I fear, as did my previous speaker, Mr Brunner, that many construction sites still to be addressed will not be done. It's clear: If you just want to renovate the former Gen Voest-Kokerei and the aluminium slag ponie in Wiener Neustadt, where we are talking about 150 million in Linz and 200 million in Wiener Neustadt, and you have already deducted the money from this ALSAG fund in the meantime, it is to be feared that if you want to fix such damage in the future, the economy will be even more handcush, although, as you know, the contribution payments in the ALSAG are in principle or largely borne by the economy. And if other things, where there is a need for renovation, can become known now, of course, we are at risk that the economy, which has been permanently burdened by this federal government over the last two years, will continue to be burdened. And that would then be rejected. So, Mr Federal Minister, I would ask you to consider in detail how this should continue with the ALSAG Fund and how such construction sites still need to be fixed, perhaps some new ones can be achieved by you in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22757	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22778	Mr President. High house! The restoration of old loads is a very important part of a sustainable or, better to say, repairing environmental protection and is also very closely related to the use of water, with the protective goods of water. It has already been said that the Old Load Rehabilitation Fund is at risk in its resistance and teaching, because not all contributions that are delivered are used accordingly. But – and that is, I think, the point – ALSAG contributions should be collected for waste and not for things that can be reused or reused. That is why we from the BZÖ believe that this amendment makes sense, because it concerns two sub-areas. On the one hand, it is about the so-called area of the steelworks slags, which are also reused, reused and technically installed internationally, throughout Europe, and on the other hand, it is also about the house builders or private builders who – I believe – have done so exactly – do not have to pay that or where the tax advantage is also passed on to the builders. That makes sense in principle. However, I would like to remind you that there are great differences in the old load renovation in Austria. Upper Austria is an absolute leader in suspect areas. This does not mean, however, that in the past Upper Austria has more polluted or stored more, quite the contrary, Upper Austria is a federal country that is heading in the direction to investigate a lot, at that time also under environmental councillor Ursula Haubner. That means that in other countries this will be resurgence, and then we will need even more money. That is why my question to you, Mr Environment Minister, is: What quantities do you expect in the foreseeable future, and how do you see this in the comparison of the federal states, what can be done here? What sum is it about? For the procedure itself I can say: ==References====External links== This is a legal correction in December. A sentence. Then we'll have one. a day before the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – get a longer version, which I have just explained, and yesterday something has arrived in which it means that an editorial mistake is corrected. So I would ask you to take the appropriate care in the preparation of such proposals in the future, with the BZÖ agreeing today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22829	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22851	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that this solution comes along and that everyone here, except the Greens, is going along because it is also a question of ensuring competitiveness for Austrian businesses. In the end, it is about jobs, income, value added in the region. We know that this attacking slag can be used throughout Europe, for example for decades already in the production of iron scrap or concrete steel. Therefore, I am glad that this ALSAG law enables us to use what can be reused and recycled, even in Austria, because the current slag really has excellent structural properties, is used in practice as a building material and is used for asphalt or support layers in road construction. In the same way, slag is used as an aggregate for concrete to increase the pressure and bending strength. I believe that this is really very, very useful, because it also gives us a number of advantages. Environmentally, the use of slags is safe. It was really the Upper Austrians who had already had this scientifically tested and were also confirmed in an EIA procedure. For the Upper Austrian steel industry, this was a very, very important measure. I would like to congratulate all those involved in this in Upper Austria because it is the true environmental policy, ladies and gentlemen. It is based on a strong economic pillar through which people have work, through which people can gain income, and which ultimately also makes the two other pillars manageable, namely the ecological and social. Mr Federal Minister, thank you very much for this novel!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22884	Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the common organization of the market in sheepmeat and goatmeat Mr Rädler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22905	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Grillitsch has already done everything on the use of slags from steel production in road construction. It has not been pointed out that the necessary quality control we need in this area is a requirement for documentation and that this is already taken into account in the planning projects in road construction. I am particularly pleased, however, that, as part of this amendment to the Old Load Rehabilitation Act, there is now also the possibility that for those buildings built in rural areas in the districts of the country before 1955, the disposal of building wastes is free of contributions in the event of a demolition. This certainly revives the local cores and helps us mayors also in the spatial planning policy, it saves us infrastructure costs. Mr Brunner, I do not know why you are smiling, but you have probably never been responsible for municipal politics, because then you know what problems children have today when they take over these houses to rebuild what waste disposal costs there are to them. [[Abg. May. Brunner: I still sit in a council today!]] I believe that this is a good measure for rural areas, for infrastructure, for the communities which are at present heavily burdened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22944	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1085 of the supplements. Mr Grillitsch, Mr Muchich, Mr President, have tabled an amendment which refers to the entry and paragraph 4. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, we shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Members Grillitsch, Muchitsch, colleagues. I would like to ask for a positive sign if I agree. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:08:20]] 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report in accordance with Art. 1 § 8 Relevant limitation law for the years 2008 and 2009 (III-189/1065 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23002	We're now on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Mulder. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23030	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In three days we celebrate here in the High House on 8th. ==References== International Women's Day. Some of the key women's political demands such as active and passive women's voting rights vary in Europe, but are implemented, other demands, such as the issue of equal opportunities in all areas of life, are still waiting for implementation. Unfortunately, the principle of equal income for equal work is still not a matter of course, as can be seen from the Court of Auditors' report. And it is extremely unsatisfying that between 1998 and 2009, despite a slight rise in women's incomes, there will be no improvement in relative employment. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. The median annual income of women is still 60 percent of male income. The income disadvantage of women varies according to social status, by sector and by working group. Officials earn 93 percent of average male income, and contract staff earn only 77 percent. The situation in the private sector is extremely worrying, where we have only half of the income of male colleagues and the female workers only 44 percent of the average male income. If we use only full-time workers for comparison, this is 66 percent. In any case, it is clear that there is a need for political action and that the “concept” – under the quotation – that the private sector itself will make a voluntary contribution to an income justice failed. It is therefore clear that in the future positive and negative normative incentive systems will have to be decided and that the initiative of the Minister of Women, such as under the Equal Treatment Act, to require private companies to draw up an income report, is to be welcomed. Higher income transparency, compulsory quotas where necessary, will also lead to more income justice between the sexes in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23072	The next speaker was Mrs Schittenhelm. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23093	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! First of all, thank you very much to the employees in the Court of Auditors. Here again excellent work was done, especially in the preparation of the income report. This income report is as well as the last one that clearly documents and shows that the differences in income between women and men have not been reduced, it is even the opposite. Like the last reports, this report clearly shows that women in comparable employment areas deserve much less than men. That's very important. It has already been said by the previous speaker that, of course, part-time is taking place here, which is quite clear, but there are still serious differences in full-time employment. I just mean, that we really can't define ourselves here alone on full-time employment, but have to ask quite clearly: Where do I have continuous careers? Where do I have a continuous field of employment in the same company and business? Because if I have an interruption – whether by family or care work or exit for health reasons, as always – then I do not get back to where I left three, four years ago, and of course I also miss the biennial jumps that continue with the men and inevitably and clearly lead to an increase in salaries. You can't ignore this. It is very interesting to note that hourly earnings are also included in this report. I have looked at this, because this comparison clearly shows the income disadvantage of women in terms of hourly earnings for managers and craftsmen, and it is very, very big. In this area, women reach only 69 or 73 percent of hourly earnings, the hourly wage of men. I would also like to give an example here. The average gross hourly earnings of office staff, commercial employees, thus always comparable jobs, for women €13.40, with the men this hourly wage is €16.80. This is at 40 hours a difference of 136 €. That means, every week I actually have 136 € grossly less than men in equivalent work. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not acceptable! We cannot accept that in this form. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, I very much hope that the measures with income transparency – today, 1. March, the new law on equal treatment has entered into force with income transparency – for businesses of more than 1,000 employees, however, the fact that there is not only more transparency, but also awareness of the fact that women and men receive equal pay for equal work and hours. That is a very important point. I am also deeply convinced that we will also contribute to this with a women's quota, initially in close-to-state establishments – I hope it will also be followed by private companies with a quota of 30 percent – that, if women are also in top positions in the enterprises, there will be a very different and perhaps bigger sensorium when it comes to women's wages in all areas of the company. I expect a lot of it to happen when this regulation enters into force. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Brosz.]] I am very pleased that our Minister for Economic Affairs, Reinhold Mitterlehner, has also supported this request, and the demand of our ÖVP women with 30 percent, has also given its support. I very much hope that this will actually lead to this change. Successful companies, ladies and gentlemen, we know, of course need the strength and intelligence of men and women, but we also expect equal pay for men and women in these areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23170	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23191	Dear President! High house! This report, presented by the Court of Auditors for the years 2008 and 2009, clearly shows that income shears between men and women's salaries are still wide open. What is really worrying about me is that low incomes have actually decreased since the late 1990s, while high incomes have increased. However, if the salaries of full-time women in public service are compared to those of their male colleagues, it is noted that women contract staff receive 92 percent of the average income of their male colleagues. However, the report also points to the greater differences in income between women and men in the private sector. In the analysis of income shears, the Court sees the causes mainly in the various sectors. Here I give you absolutely right, women work disproportionately in sectors that are paid lower. The study of staff consultant Neumann International is also a follow-up. And here I quote Conrad Pramböck from Neumann International, who said that it always comes to the case-by-case view and that a flat-rate response is basically not in place. So says Mr Pramböck in the "Tyrol daily" of 19th century. January 2011: “To make a correct statement about the incomes of women and men, it is not even enough to compare apples with apples, but Granny Smith with Granny Smith”. He also argues that most of the pay gap is due to part-time work – this is also clearly reflected in the present Court of Auditors report – as mentioned earlier, that women are mainly employed in sectors which are worse paid. But what surprised me was the fact that the big differences in income between men and women lie with lawyers and doctors. According to this report, men work as surgeons, women more often than pediatricians, and women often devote themselves less intensively to their firms and ordinations than men. In other words, it is still important for women to have time for their families. It is therefore essential to create better framework conditions for the compatibility of family and work. This would certainly be a good step towards at least partial closure of income shears between women and men. In addition: In order to identify better data for the causes of income shears, it would be right and important to have Statistics Austria review more parameters. Only in this way can we carry out cause research and take the right measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23239	The next speaker is Mrs Schatz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23261	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address two areas of problem, which are evident in this report, on the one hand, the fact that income shears between high and low incomes continue to differ. Increases in income among low income groups, i.e. low wage earners, have generally been lower than inflation in recent years. The persons concerned have thus worked to the same extent and have been able to acquire less for the wages of their work. That is, their work has been gradually devalued. But this phenomenon is not new. The report refers to data since 1998, and unfortunately it is expected that this phenomenon will not change even in the coming years. Why won't it change? – Because we now have very slim grades in the low wage sectors: 2 per cent in trade, 2 per cent in hairdressers. With 2 percent, the trade unions have once again been satisfied. That is, on the one hand, we have only 2% wage increases. And on the other side? – [[Abg. Schopf: The trade has finished with 2.5 percent!]] What do we learn from the media today about the current inflation rate? – We currently have an inflation rate of 2.4 percent: 2 per cent wage increases, 2.4 per cent inflation. What does that mean? – That means, the loss of real wages, the value of wages continues to decline, and that again meets the low wage earners. These rates are not in the luxury goods segment, but – if you look at the table of Statistics Austria – we have price increases of 2.6 percent in the food and non-alcoholic beverages sectors, an increase in the price of apartments by 2.7 percent. That is, on the one hand, households that have a low income have to expect wage increases of only 2%, and on the other hand these are exactly those households that have to spend almost their entire resources, sometimes their entire resources on housing and food. It is precisely in these areas that we have price increases which will be significantly higher than income growth. That means: Low-income households in Austria will become poorer again this year. We already have over 180 000 people in this country who are poor despite full - time work. And that part-time employment in Austria cannot actually be lived, we all know that. It is therefore high time that we, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, worked with these income reports, with the data from these income reports, in fact, that you derive measures from them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We Greens say – and we don't say that right now, because we all have known the data for a long time: It finally needs higher minimum wages! The social partners are unable to provide for minimum wage for existential workers. Even now, at the last wage negotiations, it could not be guaranteed that people in Austria earn at least €1 300 gross for full-time work. Let's take a look at the finals. What has been achieved? In trade –Minimum wage: 1 244 €, bakery industry: 1 030 €, hairdressers: 1 145 €, advertising and market communication: 1 231 €, private educational institutions: 1 230 €, system gastronomy: 1 211 €. – Finals below 1 300 € this year! We Greens say: At last, it needs a law that guarantees minimum wage for existence, and that also implies annual valorization. That would be a long overdue answer to what we can read from this income report again. However, I would like to address a second topic, which all my previous speakers have already mentioned: Women in Austria still deserve much less than men. There are a variety of causes for this. On the one hand, because women are particularly active in the low-paid areas previously discussed by me, their income has also lost value in recent years, and because it is mainly women who are stuck in nonexistent part-time work. 87 percent of all part-time workers are women. That's one. But the other is the scandal that women in Austria are still not protected from earning less for the same work than their male colleagues. You're not protected from that! The Global Gender Gap Report of the World Economic Forum shows that Austria has a total of 134 ranking countries with regard to equal pay for equivalent work in place 126. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's incredible!]] In other words, there are 125 countries around the world where women are paid more fairly for their work than in Austria. This is already an extreme expression and also an evidence of poverty in the government policy of all governments in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this report of income, it is only a matter of injustices. We could now make bets, which, because of the policy you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, will be in the next few years in the income reports. But I am afraid it will not change much, because you do not have an offensive plan on poverty reduction policy, you do not have effective plans and wrong approaches in the area of minimum wage policy, and you are definitely making a much too toothless equality policy. Thank you for the report, he is very much helping us in the argument, but unfortunately I assume that the government will not again take it as the basis for long-term overdue measures towards greater justice, including in terms of income on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23344	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23365	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, the present income report shows: He shows that as announced, this Federal Government has not succeeded in providing for gender-righteousness and improving income-righteousness for women in Austria. With the minimum security introduced, the salaries and wages received by women look comparatively worse. In 2009, your women's minister Heinisch-Hosek calmed down the fact that there is a commitment by the German government as a whole to the equality of women in the labour market. Well, how does that look? – Except for the evolution of the equal treatment law, which I believe was a failure, and except for various quota requirements, there are no useful proposals, ladies and gentlemen of red and black. You should be aware - and I am speaking again to you from the Red Group - that you will not be able to improve the real income situation of Austrian women with a socialist women's rate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We do not need a female quota, but a larger labour market score. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I will now give you some examples of what would be such a hit rate. First of all, the legal minimum wage of 1 300 € gross, real 1 000 € net. Mr Schatz mentioned it earlier. This would help the women who now hardly get over the rounds with 40 hours of work. The minimum wage would boost purchasing power, and this would also benefit the economy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, child care offers – and I am not talking about facilities but about offers, because “offers” implies several things. “Offerings” implies the financial incentive for people who want to care for their children at home, themselves or by relatives, or even crab bars, kindergartens, day mothers and afternoon care. Instead, you will now be philosophyd about where you want to introduce quotas – in the economy, in close-to-state businesses. You don't agree on this yourself. These quotas will bring nothing. Perhaps you should consider whether the government itself commits to considering how you really care about women to help women earn more, as well as how you could help businesses. I would also like to address the farm kindergartens. Show me at a farm that wants to set up a kindergarten, which section ends of this plant have to run through so he can do it. Here comes again the word ‘administrative reform’. The Court of Auditors has not even asked for it for hundreds of times. What's going on? - You're not doing anything! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have the x-th report which shows the same situation. It's all right. It doesn't change. We will continue to work to ensure that we make our contribution to ensuring that women in Austria deserve more justice, and with a sound policy, the next Court of Auditors report will also look better in this regard. I'm convinced of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23441	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23463	Mr President! High house! The present income report shows a comprehensive presentation of the incomes of the Austrian population. Some factors relating to the year 2009 from the report: 2.2 million pensioners with an average gross annual income of just over €15 000 are confronted with 3.9 million self-employed persons with a mean gross annual income of just over €23 600. The lowest average income of just over €17 800 gross per year can be found among workers, and the highest average income of more than €47 800 for officials. Although statistical average incomes show a positive trend, there are many people, whose incomes are sufficient to meet the most basic needs. That is why we are called upon to counteract a threat to poverty that we can eliminate possible factors of influence. There are several of them. I should like to point out two: In reducing supplementary pensions, which is caused by partial losses in pension funds, we are also called upon, if this problem is also complex, to support those concerned so that they do not have to look at them in the future, even if they suffer further losses. Another example is the single-earner discount rate. Although it sounds banal, there are many people in our country who feel 30 €, 20 € per month less actually. Therefore, I should like to invite that on the next occasion we jointly plan the derogation in such a way that we can relax this problem. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23500	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23521	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! This income report, in turn, is very extensive and interesting; it represents very well the differences in income between men and women. On the other hand, I was very irritated by the statement that workers achieved 68 percent of average male income, and women reached only 66 percent of the employees. I myself am a staff representative at the Red Cross Upper Austria, a company with 1,600 employees and 99 percent employees, and I was interested two years ago in the fact that it actually looks like in my own business when the Court of Auditors concludes that on average, women earn only 66 percent of men's income. I have precisely analysed this with my colleagues, and I have not been able to see these differences at this level and in number. The same is paid for the same work with us – with “with us” I mean the Red Cross Upper Austria. We have to thank God, a dense network of collective agreements. Therefore, it is not possible that the same work will not be paid for. Actually, it doesn't matter if it's a man or a woman. But if you look more closely, it is true that there are reasons that can lead to differences in income between men and women. The Court of Auditors has also pointed out that part-time work is such a concept. I do not blame the Austrian statistics at all. It has been reported to us that the annual salary record is used for the data collection. I believe that we should think together in this House about whether we should not have a more accurate data collection. For example, there are extra-performance fees for many collective contracts, especially in the employee sector – this is about 200 €, 240 €, 270 € per month; for example, ten hours are included in our collective contract per month – in this annual wage bill. A part-time force is normally allocated to full-time employment, where of course this additional benefit is not applied. That is why I have this difference from the point of view of this extra-performance fee. That's the first reason for me. The second reason is – and I think we are all called for together as regards differences between men and women –: We don't have an account with the bees during the days. A woman stays at home for a certain period of time for child rearing, so takes a karenzysm – the man who was employed with her at the same time continues in the salary scheme. That means he enjoys the bees. The woman remains at home for three or four years and does not enjoy these bees. They can never pick that up again. That is a very essential aspect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Why did you reject the request?]] The second aspect concerns pre-service times. For example, if a woman has learned the profession of haircut, then a few years of child rearing and then as an old-age caregiver gets back into another company, for example at the age of 35 or 40 years, then her times are not counted. It starts with the wage in level 1. These differences cannot be met by women. Here we should jointly start a discussion process – of course also the social partners in the CV negotiations – as to how we can improve this situation for our women in businesses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] I would like to conclude by thanking the Court of Auditors for the extensive report and wish me a discussion in this direction, because if you analyse exactly, then these points are already coming to light.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23574	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23595	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to deal with a very small chapter of this income report, namely agricultural income. We also discussed this in committee. You, Mr President, or your staff, note that income in agriculture and forestry cannot be comprehensively recorded as a result of the set-aside. They refer to the Green Report and to a sample of the book's leading farmers. I looked at the Green Report: 2 222 Book-leading farmers are in there as a basis – voluntarily, as far as I am informed – of around 180 000 farms. It is not clear to me how you can get a representative distribution of income. [[Interlocutory remark by President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser.]] – We will certainly be able to talk about it again. The package is the interesting one, because there are tax packages in the industry everywhere. However, the tax fixtures there are based on turnover. In agriculture, tax fixation is based on the unit value. By the year 2010, the limit was €65 000. 39 percent of this unit value is accepted as profit and taxed, then there are a few deductions, social security and so on. So hardly anyone who pays income tax. - Well, that's how it was. What I don't understand and not many others with me is the fact that we negotiated a budget in very, very lengthy negotiations – and it wasn't easy – on 22. We decided on December 23rd. By regulation, the Minister of Finance has set a flat-rate threshold of €65 000 to €100 000. That means 100 000 € one-value means 39 000 € would be taxed. How many farmers are there to reach €100 000 if only 2 222 farms are accountable in the Green Report? I probably understand this Christmas tax gift for the clients, but not for the general public. I am here with Mr Kaipel: It also doesn't understand a pensioner to whom the single-earner discount amount has been deducted, nor does it understand any family that earns around 100 € less that suddenly on 23. In December, such gifts will be distributed. [[Interlocutory calls from Ursula Haubner and Jakob Auer.]] We should talk about whether more justice would be asked here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23651	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler in word. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23688	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! I too can join in the praise and thanks to the staff of the Court of Auditors. You have returned a compact, meaningful report here. This report is always expected with tension and, of course, finds its rainfall throughout Austria – of course, also in Tyrol. Unfortunately, he is not always shown correctly in the media. Because of the distorted representation, this leads to headlines, as we can see here: ‘Tyrol in the case of wages in the back.’ [[The speaker shows a newspaper with this headline.]] Of course, I can't leave a headline like that. My colleague, August Wöginger, raised it – and here the Court of Auditors is not going to blame – you get the data that supplies the materials, but the method of calculation is naturally to be questioned, because there is no weighting here, or considering in which country, like many persons, is full-time, part-time, full-year or seasonal employment. Of course, because of its economic structure, Tyrol is economically, commercially, touristically different from other federal states. The President has already outlined in his report in the Committee a very interesting chart with good figures, which I do not wish to abstain from. In Lower Austria, for example, the proportion of full-time workers all year round is 58 percent, while in Tyrol it is the lowest with 48 percent in Germany. In the case of employees in low-paid sectors, which is only 33 percent in Lower Austria, Tyrol has the highest share with 43 percent. If you refer this to the annual wage bill, this naturally results in an imbalance and leads to discussions which we unfortunately have to lead in Tyrol, but which do not correspond to reality. Here I also want to bring a statistics which shows a completely different picture. There is an annual survey by the EU Member States on the conditions of income, poverty and living, the so-called EU-SILC study, which ended in January, almost simultaneously with the Court of Auditors' income report. According to data from 2008/2009, Austria has an average of 12 percent of the population at risk of poverty. The top riders are Vienna with 17.1 percent and Carinthia with 15.1 percent. Tyrol is at a significant distance – with a share of only 7.1 percent of the vulnerable population – in the last place. In German: The danger of becoming poor is the lowest in Tyrol. My suggestion, as well as that of Mr August Wöginger, is to consider together another method of calculation, a fairer, more meaningful method of throughput. Here, of course, the legislator is required, not the Court of Auditors, and perhaps we should all think about it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23746	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moser, spoke on an opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23767	Mr President. High house! I would like to start by thanking you for the positive response that this income report has found, and also to point out that this income report is the only report to be allocated to the National Council, the Federal Council and also to the Land Days. As has been rightly said by the honourable Member, there are certain rules which the Court of Auditors cannot go beyond. That is, the media income is shown. Median income means that income One is told about each other and cut in the middle, so that 50 percent of the income is above this median and 50 percent of the income below it. This means, at the same time, that the individual income processes cannot be derived. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that this income report has been drawn up in a very cooperative manner with Statistics Austria. I would therefore also like to see our partner, Statistics Austria, and in particular Mr Mag. Thanks to Bauer, who has brought in a lot of things, that this income report has now also been improved in conjunction with the Court of Auditors. It has become more readable, it includes new calculation methods. It has presented the federal states more transparently, also in the light of social staggering. Similarly, an improved description of the employment dimension and duration of employment is made of just a few points. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Thank you. Mr Wöginger, who has referred to women's and men's incomes in this context and has also presented his work in which he is located. He said he can't really understand how these differences come about. At the same time, however, he has done very well in the debate, which is based on the fact that women deserve less than men in all areas. It must be pointed out that even in the case of self-employed women or even in the case of self-employed women, they deserve less than men, with a wide range of causes: Women are very strongly represented in low-paid industries. This means that they work more frequently in service sectors and not in manufacturing operations. As regards the position in the profession, they are mainly engaged in auxiliary activities and are not leading activities. They are very much used in part-time employment. That means part-time work is female. 87 percent of part-time workers are women, while 44 percent of working women are part-time but only 6 percent of men. There are some reasons that can be used as an explanation that women deserve less than men, but at the same time it must be mentioned that women with full-time work also deserve much less than men working full-time, a circumstance which at least belongs to eliminate. One point that has been raised by Members of the Gäßner committee, too, is the Green Report. We have the problem that income data is not such that individual income processes can be represented. It is presented in the Green Report, the main orientation by area of production, and at the same time, we can determine the non-remunerated labour force units – with Statistics Austria. I would like to mention, as far as the Green Report is concerned, that the presentation is calculated on the basis of a sample of book-leading establishments, in which case book-leading establishments are not identical with book-leading. In this case, there is a test operating network, which is built up in such a way – according to the Green Report – that all size classes, operating forms and production areas are represented. At the same time, for example, book-leading farms calculate income, as they are subject to different accounts and criteria than tax, so that statements of income of agricultural holdings are possible. That is the point to be made. If, therefore, there is an increased desire in view of the individual income trends of people, further development of the legal provisions would be necessary. dig – that was also mentioned by Mr Lettenbichler – so that the Court of Auditors can succeed. In this context, thank you again to the employees, thanks to Statistics Austria. I think the report has succeeded, and it is very meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23845	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-189 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:48:40]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, Series B. 2010/14 (III-196/1066, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23889	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Lap. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23916	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! I would like to highlight a particularly important area in this report. After all, the examiners were tested by a peer review. The Court of Auditors has been examined by colleagues from Germany, Denmark and Switzerland, so to speak, to the heart and the kidneys. In my opinion, this is also very important in international exchanges, in order to control the Austrian Court of Auditors in accordance with the international circumstances and efforts that take place within the framework of INTOSAI. From October 2009 to May 2010 was, as I said, tested for the heart and kidneys. There were a lot of interviews and interviews, and in December 2010 the report was then presented. There are very many specific changes that have taken place in this peer review, and many points have already been implemented and guided by the Court of Auditors. For example, in the field of IT, in the field of knowledge management, which is a very important core of the Court of Auditors, because knowledge management cannot depend on persons, but it must be seen that knowledge about processes and certain processes remains and will be passed on in the institution. Changes have also been introduced in the areas of quality assurance and cost and performance accounting. An instrument could be exported from the Austrian Court of Auditors, the so-called follow-up procedure or demand procedure. We see this in our work as very important support if an examination has taken place, that at some point it is then again seen whether changes have occurred, whether changes have been furthered or whether things are still open. I think the peer review report is an important contribution to the fact that, during the anniversary we are celebrating this year, the Court of Auditors' institution has also received a very positive assessment from international bodies.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23955	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23984	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The present Perception Report, with the Peer Review chapter, gives a positive witness to the Austrian Court of Auditors. Congratulations, Mr President. This shows, I believe, that the comparison sets the Austrian Court of Auditors at a high level internationally from the quality standards. The countries that have reviewed it – Germany, Switzerland and Denmark – are examples in various areas – according to the President’s information – when it comes to auditing the Court of Auditors. I think it is quite positive to see that a reform process has been established in the Austrian Court of Auditors in recent years. We've been able to convince ourselves recently. The Austrian Court of Auditors is very strongly structured and, overall, very well positioned in terms of efficiency. I think it's important to be able to offer performance and quality. However, this international view has also shown that there are possibilities for improvements, namely to ensure the independence of the Court of Auditors, the budgetary sovereignty and the power to represent the President. There are a total of six proposals. On the one hand, it is a question of creating legal basis for an advisory mandate. Another point is: In Austria, we have a term of twelve years, which is not extended, but the peer review has also shown that it is possible in Austria to elect or dissociate a president without reason and even in the proper exercise of office. It is also important for financial independence, and here the international audit has shown that the Ministry of Finance has the opportunity to participate. There is a desire that Parliament alone should have a say. With regard to the power of representation, Mr President, I think it is quite possible to find a regulation and a way forward. This shouldn't be a big obstacle. Overall, the internal revision – it was previously set up by all departments – was also re-established, with four persons and one head. Another point is that there should also be decision-making if reports, as before, are taken into account. Overall, as a summary of this perceptive report: It is wise and sensible to learn from the good. You don't have to invent everything yourself. It is important and necessary to adapt control systems, and the Austrian Court of Auditors, which also has the seat of the International Court of Auditors, is, I believe, responsible. We have already said that Denmark is the world leader in audit standards and that Switzerland has a high IT level. Germany has produced a guide. The second chapter: Demand procedures. The issue was that there were 651 Court of Auditors recommendations and 638 replies, according to the model ‘implemented’, ‘implemented’ and ‘open implementation’. The results were slightly increased compared with 2008. In the recommendations, 55.5% were implemented, in 30.5% of cases, implementation was promised, and in 14 percent, implementation is open – that is, a total increase in quality. But we should ask for even more commitment when it comes to implementing the Court of Auditors' recommendations. I do not think that the Court of Auditors' work is going to take place. I hope that in the next few years we will be able to repeat the new challenge of municipal audits here in the Perception Report, and that the Court of Auditors will meet this challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24048	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24070	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! That our Court of Auditors does excellent work and offers excellent quality, we know – or we thought we knew. Now we really know it because it has been demonstrated by the peer review that has already been addressed, which gives the Austrian Court of Auditors an excellent witness. If there is some recommendation that the Peers have made, then these are exactly those that are necessary. It has already been mentioned: The independence of the Court of Auditors must be ensured. One of my main concerns is that recommendations issued by the Court of Auditors are not only taken into account, but that they really do. The demand process clearly shows that there is an increase in the recommendations implemented, but we cannot quantify whether it is the right measure, because the real savings potential has not been raised. There's still a lot of money slumbering here. When you take the old reports and read them sometime, you can see that many of the recommendations that have never been attacked have never been implemented. That's actually lost potential; it's a shame. It will be necessary to pursue a genuinely more efficient or strong insistence that recommendations, so to speak, are also to be reported by the competent Federal Minister or by the Federal Government. Mr President, Mr Moser, we have now, in order to start, to be annoying, questioned all open recommendations by means of a request. Let's see what's coming back. It is a matter of starting this discussion process. But we will also be very strict about it, because I think there is a lot of money to do. That is really what we need our Court of Auditors to do: to make our conduct more efficient. Another chapter in this report deals with the new testing competence for the Austrian communities, at least for a smaller share of them – now growing. I come from Styria, and that is the federal state with the economic community sinners. It breaks up a number of them. It is not always the case that it is individuals who are responsible in the communities, so to speak, who commit “crime” – under quotations. I don't want to say that here. I think it also fails to have some sort of pre-control. While there is a need for community supervision to carry out preliminary checks, this is usually done with an eye twinkler: I'll do it if you've done it. – There is no proper pre-control – in the sense of considering: What do we do if the underlying data are not the way they have been calculated? Then everything goes wrong. What do we do when the car goes wrong? How do we secure ourselves? – So to speak, a risk management in stock. In my opinion, this is part of this, and in fact it is necessary to reform the local authority in this form. On the other hand, I believe that there is quite something to think about with regard to the financial compensation, because not all municipalities or local authorities are such that they deal with the money in such a way that they spend it first and then see that they get it back from the Prince of State. There are those who really think about the congregation, and in fact one should reward such congregations by saying: They can really be trusted with the money we pay for citizens, who know how to start something with it – unlike others who are blatantly tearing up big economic holes, just because they believe they have to realize themselves in certain projects themselves. I hope that you will be able to bring your experience and knowledge to the community's examinations with the expertise that has now been expanded. I believe that this will have to be the goal – certainly now for a rather medium-term period of time, but nevertheless – in order to create order in this country with the communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24118	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24139	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The activity report repeatedly offers the opportunity to shed light on some interesting individual aspects, which then go for several years. In this case, however, something is actually one-off and first-time in the activity report. You should, even if you are not members of the Court of Auditors, perhaps even take a brief look at this, namely the fact that, in a peer review process of the Austrian Court of Auditors, it was evaluated qualitatively by another competent body. And, look, it just came out good. - Congratulations! However – and this is not even the case with the Court of Auditors anymore – there are a number of comments on the system of the Court of Auditors in Austria, if one wants to do so, and these suggestions from the peer review process are actually addressed to the legislator, that is to say to us. And now, in reality, the question arises where we continue to deal with it. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Of course, the Court of Auditors is a possibility. We have already begun to think – at the political level at all levels – of whether we are concerned with this or whether we are satisfied with the current practice, because the danger that threatens to come out of the laws or, at any rate, slumbers there is not going to be suffocating anyway. That's the only thing you have to think about in the balance. The danger points would be, in order that you only know, that in ordering the President of the Court of Auditors' office for twelve years, although they are taken a good thing is that this is so long, and without re-election at the age of six, since everyone knows why this is happening – it is seen to be possible by a simple majority. Not that I believe that there is a simple majority in favour of doing evil against the President of the Court of Auditors, but we have already experienced that simple majority voting can do everything possible here and prevent it, especially when it comes to control. That this is, so to speak, an active change in order to pass on to anyone, we do not actually have a point of occasion for that. However, this reference has led us to see how it is otherwise, and of course it makes sense to organise the election at all in this position, for example with two-thirds majority or with a qualified, elevated majority. Not that it may not be possible, we have already had something like this in the public prosecutor's office, but an increased quorum, as is more often the case in such contexts, would be necessary. However, this is really something we need to discuss, and here, in the Court of Auditors' report, we can find this subject, but not so much, because the Court of Auditors wants to do something to us, but because this has simply been the result of the international peer review procedure and has been a decisive finding. Similarly, the other issues that focus on the impact of the Court of Auditors are the same – parentheses: and they may even worry about closing parentheses. The fact that the Court of Auditors' audit mandate does not have to pay any attention to the fact that the Court of Auditors' work is so far under way that it can no longer follow its own audit plan, I think it is less a problem if it comes from the legislative and thus, in fact, from the control bodies of the Executive Council, that is, the National Council, the Landtag, itself. But there is also the possibility that governments can always reach the Court of Auditors through to the national governments, so to speak, and in the worst case, everyone could agree – the “unified state governments” – and say: So, now we're making a lot of test orders – theoretically, anyway. The Court of Auditors then has almost nothing more to do than hustle down any growth of the national conference if they just have a clinic with him. Not that it would have already come so far in Austria, not even at Erwin Pröll, but theoretically it would be possible. It's not uninteresting. I'm saying I haven't come to the idea yet, but you can see what it's worth when people look at the classification and say: Well, how is it in Austria? Let's say it again. The Court of Auditors is great. We could still take advantage of the environmental conditions in the Court of Auditors and its even greater independence here. One should look at this in peace, because indeed there is no danger of delay. I don't want to put that on your mind. However, I would like to mention two, three small points, apart from this peer review. What I put to you is the problem of party finance and transparency. This is always a matter in these reports when it comes to what the Court of Auditors still has to do. There is the bizarre regulation on the party law, that the list of donations, if made at all, and so they are referred to in the Austrian law, are then to be deposited with the President of the Court of Auditors. The poor one is getting into the drawing, and in reality he is not allowed to publish anything at all. It looks as if everything would have been practically notifiably certified, and the whole can only be pulled out if the party itself says: Please get out! – And she does that only if this list serves as a protection for her own party. But it is not exactly a provision for transparency, but it is only a little suggested and actually the opposite, and the President of the Court of Auditors is also required to lock up this list, if at all, if it is sent. That's all more bizarre than we've got. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Party Law in Austria is badly in need of reform. As far as transparency is concerned, we are a developing country of the special class. In Europe we are the last, the last. And now it fits precisely, because those who have followed the APA on the weekend know that the anti-fraud group of the Council of Europe GRECO will be entering the next evaluation round in Austria, still within the half-year period. This time they have the party laws and the financing transparency rules on the Tableau, and it is already clear that this is totally in the arrogance. There are already written references to this in the Council of Europe, and that is now a joke. As I said, we are behind all countries, including Albania. I looked at it once, they also have transparency provisions. So we didn't have to go far in the alphabet, because already Albania was clear, they are much better than Austria. Something has to happen. I'm looking at the club people. We are no longer allowed to take advantage of the fact that the in itself good proposals of the federal directors of five parties are washing up here in Parliament. We're going to pressure a little further. This begins with appropriate negotiating dates. Nor can it be that you send in your lawyers here, who recognize a problem everywhere, and instead of removing the problems with the law-making and law-making that are, of course, objectively available, the lawyers are urged to find out loud problems, so that at the end nothing goes on at all. – It should be exactly the opposite! We'll look at it, you can rely on it! I'm telling you, that must be worth something! If the headquarters of the party themselves agree on anything, then it should not be blocked in Parliament. It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24231	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24252	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already mentioned a lot. I don't need to repeat everything again. The Austrian Court of Auditors was examined by the Danish, Swiss and German Court of Auditors. He was given a very good witness. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors, Mr President, and all your employees, very much for their work and for their commitment. A warm thank you at this point from our side. [[BZÖ and Abg. May. Kogler.]] The fact that the Court of Auditors is not always given the importance that it actually owes to it also shows today's debate. We have now reached the last or the last item on the agenda, and once again the Court of Auditors' report is only coming up at the end of the agenda. We've already criticized this on a number of occasions. I will do this again today, so that perhaps future It should be borne in mind that the Court of Auditors reports will be discussed at a prominent time – perhaps once in the television broadcasting period. It is also about tax money, and I believe that the Austrians have the right to have a debate on the Court of Auditors reports at the beginning of the meeting on television. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are still other problems, and there are still further possibilities for improvement. I would also like to address a subject that we have also discussed in the Committee, namely that the Court of Auditors, when examining the Styria Chamber of Commerce, has no opportunity to publish this report because it is not capable of doing so. We believe that this should be changed and abolished. I would also like to address the Court of Auditors' recommendations and, above all, the recommendations made to the Ministries. These recommendations are not implemented in a sluggish manner. We should also consider, perhaps by German example, supporting these recommendations by means of motions for resolutions, on the initiative of the Court of Auditors, improving the implementation of the recommendations so that we can have additional control here, improving the control system and ensuring that the recommendations are implemented. Summa summarum once again a warm thanks to the Court of Auditors, and to continued good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24312	Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24334	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I have only picked out one page from the perceptive report, which concerns – who will wonder – of course the German army, namely page 121 on sales of barracks and property by the SIVBEG. Mr President, it is striking that the Court of Auditors is, of course, first of all questioning the existence of the SIVBEG. The question comes a little late, because the SIVBEG was founded in 2005 under Chancellor Schüssel and Minister Grasser. But if you know that one of the first activities of the government of Molterer/Gusenbauer in 2006 was to take out from the SIVBEG the sheet sent by the Ministry of Finance, then I already see it very positively if I follow history to this day. You're worried, and you're saying you think business prophecies won't occur. Only 63 business segments will be handled by 2008, with a proceeds of € 88 million. So far, however, it has developed further: 89 business areas have been handled, Property treated, 146 million € have been redeemed. Of course, we know that a serious deterioration in real estate took place in 2008. I am therefore very curious about the next report, in which we will be able to re-evaluate it. I think we have, of course, become a little smarter from today's point of view. I don't know whether the SIVBEG was necessary today. However, I can say that the business, as they have now begun to run, can be supported. But in the end they will be measured by the final success. We all know that the 1 billion € that Grasser has set out for the exploitation of the federal authorities was much too high. But the Of course, we should achieve € 418 or € 450 million, which we have set ourselves as our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24373	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24394	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with the Peer Review chapter today. The Federal Accounting Court of Germany, the Federal Financial Control and the Rigsrevisions Denmark have carried out an external quality control of the Austrian Court of Auditors. Peers have essentially certified the reform process of the Austrian Court of Auditors and issued a high level of independence to the Austrian Court of Auditors in accordance with the standards of INTOSAI. High quality has also been confirmed in relation to the controlling, knowledge management and professionalism of the staff. Overall, it is a very good report. Some recommendations have also been made, which have been raised several times today. I am saving myself in view of the already advanced time to mention these again, and I can still congratulate the President on this excellent report and thank him. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24425	Mr Linder has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24446	Madam President. Mr President. Dear Members! Dear colleagues! First of all, congratulations on the good testimony of the foreign review. Secondly, I am delighted to see the extension of the testing competence for the communities with more than 10,000 inhabitants, which are now being examined by the municipalities. This is 37.6% of the total budget of the municipalities, 29% of the debt, the total debt of the municipalities, but unfortunately only 71 out of 2 357 municipalities. I would be pleased if this test competence would be extended to even more communities, not only to control which is certainly also interesting, namely over-party free control, but also because these tests are a great help to us communities. On the one hand, you create transparency in the fees for the citizen, because the mayor knows how bad it is when newspapers begin to compare fees, because apples are mixed with pears and compared and we suffer very much. I would be pleased to see objective comparisons. On the other hand, I think Benchmark numbers are very important because they are simply the basis for reforms. If we know today that we have 880 transfers in the field of social benefits alone in Austria – in total 4 400 transfers between municipalities, countries and the federal government – this is, I believe, a huge potential. That is where we can make reforms, and we can modernise them, and we can slim them down. If we could compare the financial flows in the context of the financing of hospitals if we heard today from the care fund, which is now being stimulated, that the countries want to distribute the funds for themselves again, I believe, It is very important for us that we should get better figures from more communities in order to get really comparable figures. That's why I'm asking: Let us make it possible to further expand the testing competence, to develop Austrian neutral figures so that we can get the foundations for the municipal reforms!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24488	Mr Sacher is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24510	Madam President. High house! In view of the fact that some 55 percent of the Court's recommendations have been implemented by the Court of Auditors today, by the bodies examined, about a third have been implemented, I must say: However, there are still 14, 15 percent who have not been implemented. It is therefore a right approach that is also called for to insist that this rest area is also given a solution. Often one has the impression that the will is missing here too. It must therefore be stressed that Parliament must also be concerned about meeting these requirements of the Court of Auditors, that both financial damage to the public sector and human rights can be avoided. I would like to point this out to two examples where implementation has really prevented damage. That was the case in the human area when the care money was carried out. It is a fact that six to seven years ago there was still a waiting period for the care allowance at the pension insurance institution of more than three to four months, which many affected people could no longer experience at all. The fact that a significant improvement has been made here through the activities of the Court of Auditors, but also through the political will and political pressure on those responsible is really a human act for many affected. If this, as we know, lasts on average up to two months, then this is already a step forward. And our Federal Minister Hundstorfer, who is also truly demonstrating the political will to these improvements, will also achieve improvements in terms of quality here. Let us just think about improving the decision-making process, the expert review, that this should not only be done by physicians in the future, that is, by a person, but in the dual procedure, by two people. The case of Austrian Research Center Seibersdorf proves that damage to the public has been recovered in financial terms. As a Lower Austrian, I have to say: This is a truly uncanny memory of acting blue managers who brought the ARC to the edge of the ruin at this time of the black and blue government. By entering the new management, the Austrian Research Center was renovated – not only with financial profits, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Stefan: You don't even know what that means!]] You have every reason to be upset about it, because you were the responsible! Thank you very much to the Court of Auditors, but also to those who are politically responsible for the implementation of these measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24568	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24592	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Although I personally appreciate the Court of Auditors and, of course, you, Mr President, I may consider a small aspect of this current report somewhat critical, because, I think, the police from Vienna who have been treated in it are certainly valued. In concrete terms, it is about these, as you think, improved areas of the foreign service presence of the Vienna police and also about the disproportionately high costs for management and administrative tasks. I think that the figures presented here are mathematical and probably accountable. However, from the security police point of view, they are probably not so representative in this form under the approach of the police. If I look at a current report from a daily newspaper today, which says that, on the basis of this Court of Auditors report, the police in Vienna are thinking about reducing the almost 100 police departments we have in Vienna to 14 major offices, then I think that this is probably the wrong approach to push forward security policy in Vienna and, above all, to implement the security police aspect. I think that it is not a question of how many locations one has available, but of a question of personnel and the logistics available, which can be used to meet the needs and to be able to handle the tasks effectively. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Similar implementation examples from the countries, as we know from the beginning of this 2005 police reform, have shown us that service-station mergers and police mergers in areas have always been linked to redundancies and there was no added value of security police. If I look at my home district of Bruck at Leitha today and there I have to find that only a single police guard is left by the combined services at night, which serves a radius of 70 kilometers, then I do not want to be the second that depends on the emergency call and the use of the police. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With regard to the excessive administrative burden raised by the police, I give you some of the right, but this is an organisational problem. The effort is also related to the 2005 police reform, which at that time brought those administrative assignments to the police services. These are now to be done there, which was not the case before. This, of course, is also due to the external presence of police officers, who are bound by these additional administrative and administrative tasks to stay in the services. To conclude: I think more staff and sufficient logistics are the right access. How high is the Need is shown by the fact that in 2009 alone some 1.9 million overtimes were done by the State Police Commission Vienna – of course by the police officers there. This clearly shows: There's enormous staffing needs. The logistical equipment must also be accompanied by the provision of this staff that is missing there. Then, I think, we will probably be able to expect a more favourable report from you in the next few years, and the police officers in Vienna, which, despite these sad conditions, is doing excellent work, will also be able to breathe because it is also about its reputation when they are called into action and then cannot perceive it because of the framework conditions to the detriment of the population. More staff, more logistics – this is the key to the future, not only for our police, but also for the benefit of the population! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24671	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The President of the Court of Auditors did not like this!]] – Mr Jarolim, please do not make an interlocutory call. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-1996. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:26:17]] 12. Point report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series B. 2010/12 (III-187/1067, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24710	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schickhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24737	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to make an urgent reading recommendation for the EU financial report. An important recognition of this is that there are still very, very many programmes and resources that can be called up by the regions, in the structural areas, by private individuals, but also by municipalities. I believe that this opportunity should be used to bring back funds that are still available that are being made available by the EU. We need to limit the reader's recommendation, of course, as far as agriculture is concerned. There you have to praise the farmers. Almost 100 percent of the funds have already been collected at the beginning of the period. The period runs from 2007 to 2013. But for many other areas of life, it is very compact, where there are still opportunities to make money, and these opportunities should be taken advantage of. I think a second important point in the presentation is to get a little feeling for the relationships of the money we use and get back. We make a net contribution of €356 million to the European Union. This is 0.6% of the Austrian budget and 0.3% of the EU budget. So, I think – specifically addressed to the colleagues of the FPÖ – the European Union cannot be so tragic and such a problem. when you see how little the relation of capital used is to what the EU brings us, what great programmes are offered. On the European Union's peace project, I do not think we need to talk further. A point is still being raised: A deficit procedure has also been initiated against Austria, which has now been suspended. We were faced with an economic crisis in 2009. The budgetary balances of all Member States were negative. The deficit has risen from 2.3 to 6.8 percent and also from 61.6% to 73.6%. Austria has launched the right measures to implement a consolidation programme, and we are now one of six states which is still being assessed by the 27 states with Tripple-A. I think this is exemplary and quite, very important. In this sense, we should continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24785	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24807	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try to deal with this briefly. In this case, the Court of Auditors' report on sustainable development summarises the recommendation that I may make briefly. ‘The ‘Austrian Sustainable Development Strategy’ would also be maintained by the decision of the ‘Austrian Sustainable Development Strategy’ as the instrument of the federal government and developed specifically in this direction.’ [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] Sustainability, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter of course in rural areas, in agriculture and especially in forestry. There one is aware of what it means to handle resources gently and to bear responsibility in tree generations. Allow me to mention a single example of the ‘Austrian rural development programme’, which I feel is very positive. This is the example of village renewal in Lower Austria. This is one of the most positive citizen movements: Self-reliance, self-performance, the most efficient way of dealing with the financial resources – and that with regard to our living bases that we need for the future. Everything else can be found in an excellent report from the Court of Auditors. – Thank you for your valued attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24850	The next speaker is Mr Grastaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24871	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! From our point of view, we would also like to thank you very much for the EU's 2009 financial report. It is a very clear presentation of EU finances, the use of EU funds in Austria, the deficits and debt of each EU Member State in 2008 and 2009. The result: There are 27 EU countries, of which 12 are net payers and 15 are net recipients. Mr Schickhofer, we are still paying a lot too much to the EU, even if you think 356 million € net contribution would not be much for Austria. I'll prove it to you, too, why this is different. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: At least 200 million less...!]] You might think that if you get this report to mind that everything is palette, ladies and gentlemen! But this is not the case – unfortunately not the case! I was in Budapest last week at an EU conference. [[Abg. Grandruck: Hey!]] The Committee on Budgetary and Financial Affairs has done so. I was allowed to be represented on behalf of Parliament in Hungary. The Hungarians led this meeting. Of course, there were also some EU mandates on the ground. I'd like to start by saying: The EU mandates forget when they sit in the Parliament in Brussels, by whom they are elected. Otherwise, in times like these, where the financial situation is very bad and debt levels are enormously high, they could again demand more money for the EU to demand, in part, tax authorities that they wish for the financial transaction tax, want their own taxes, and present themselves for large-scale projects such as “Europe 2020” special budgets. The mood there was such that a lot of criticism has come from the national parliaments, mistrust has been there. Each country has its own wishes, and I have had the feeling that you really do not want to cooperate in the projects. The Bavarian Minister of Finance has said this quite clearly as a net payer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I can only underline this: No more money in these times, no more than equal resources for the EU! If funds are used to finance large-scale projects, then by redeployment. He said: The strong states must not be weakened in times like these! On the major project ‘Europe 2020’: I had the impression that the existing local Members did not know what it meant, and as the Lisbon strategy threatens a belly spot and a lot of tax money is put into the sand. I always compare this with a company when a holding company exists and the operating companies don't know what the holding company has for strategies. Hungary has put itself to great lengths. The mood was still on the ground, and they talked to each other. I was able to learn that 38 conditional exceptions were granted during the last financial negotiations, otherwise the financial negotiations would not have been concluded positively. Unfortunately, only Austria has not negotiated any exceptions. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: This is a perfect nonsense!]] The flow of money – and I am back to the Court of Auditors; that was also said by the Members there – is either inaccurately controlled or not controlled at all, and they are missing uniform EU rules. All this is a huge communication problem between the EU leadership and the EU member states. What has puzzled me the most and somehow insecured me is the EU's inadvisability to the problems of fragile government bonds. Mr Lamfalussy said that the financial crisis has not stood out at all, and these fragile state bonds are our big problem. They have to be dealt with in some way, but the EU is unscrupulous. One last comment: As long as the luxury exists, once a month the entire EU Parliament meets once in Brussels and once in Strasbourg and is driven back and forth with a lot of money, we must not agree to enlargement of EU funds for so long. We are in favour of supporting the EU with less money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24951	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. Ladies and gentlemen, I put the clock at 4 minutes. This is the total residence time you have. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24972	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the EU financial report, I would like to express my thanks again to the Court of Auditors for the presentation and for the conclusions that can be drawn from it. It is a good base for everyone here in the house and beyond – they are also publicly accessible. In the matter itself, I wanted to join my previous speaker. I mean, so much does not go further in the administrative reform in Austria than perhaps we should spit too big tones. I believe that the EU is not even so poorly placed in this case, as is the case with the tasks. What we really need to look closely at is how the various EU programmes are handled. This, of course, has a huge potential for abuse, since we do not need to dye at all. That also belongs to decently researched. There is now OLAF's own anti-fraud authority at EU level. But there is also the European Court of Auditors, which is increasingly doing its work with the national audit courts. But we already know that, in reality, the problems of the use of funds and the lack of efficiency are elsewhere than in Austria – or at least not primarily – when it comes to EU funds. On the tax debate – because this is the only remaining issue – or on EU funding, a final argument: The question is whether or not the overall tax rates should rise. There you can be this or that opinion, depending on ideological taste. But that the EU itself, which could also remove, is not from the outset the devil – not even for the FPÖ Group, colleague Grastaur! I would remind you that, as far as the financial transaction tax is concerned, you obviously have another opinion – we have had a five-party agreement. [[Abg. Strache: Always at national level!]] – Yes, but a financial transaction tax at national level, Mr. Strache, what is that? – A stock exchange tax, something else will be the... – Okay, then you want to get the revenue down to the nation states! [[Abg. Street: Always revenue for nation states!]] As I say – as we are at least right on the argument – it is also possible to say that the contribution payments from the individual countries to the EU will be reduced by the fact that we already have a tax which makes sense in the euro area practically only across the EU or at least in the EU. That was exactly the argument for you: This can also be organised without the tax rate increasing. - Don't worry about it. Essentially, I believe that there are a few titles – and I do not know which opinions the political groups are in each case – which we should use for steering reasons – not so much because it is a matter of taking in more money, but if one comes in, then one can see what one is doing with it. On the one hand, this would be to stabilise the financial markets – that would be this financial transaction tax – but also in the ecological field. The fact that everything is quite burdened with the mineral oil tax, as you are always mounting, is just not exactly the air traffic, no one really understands. That is why the tax rate does not have to rise if you go down elsewhere. I believe that particular attention should be paid to the forms of the burning of fossil raw materials. Then there would be EU revenue, which could be distributed according to Gusto. I would see this a little more relaxed, because even those who do not want the tax rate higher could live with it. The fact is that it is reasonable to design certain taxes in such a way that they are effective throughout Europe. Otherwise, there will never be them and we would not have the appropriate reasonable steering effects and also the revenue effects. On the other hand, you don't always have to polemise. You can also say: Okay, that's g'scheit, let's do it like that, and let's go down with other taxes!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25022	Mr Ing. Lugar is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25043	I would like to take a little closer to the Austrian Sustainable Development Strategy, which the Court of Auditors has highlighted. It states in this report that the Austrian Sustainable Development Strategy would have to be developed specifically. – This is an auxiliary expression to say that it belongs further developed, because nothing has been developed yet. This strategy is about ten years old, and almost all the areas of problem we have – from education to demographic development, welfare diseases, climate change and especially the debt situation – have been addressed ten years ago. If you look at what has actually happened, then this is really an aid expression to say that the strategy should be maintained and further developed, because ultimately nothing has happened in all these areas. If we are already talking about sustainability, if we are talking about responsibility to our children and the next generation, so if we are talking about generation-righteousness, I really wonder how our young people can even stand still in the face of the problems we leave them. Just think about climate change! In the end, it will be the young people who will address the problems posed by climate change. Or the fact that still healthy people with 52 years of age are retired: This too will one day have to pay for our children. Or: Prosperity disorders are increasing epidemically. I just mention one example: Diabetes 2, a well-being disease, is increasing to the extent that even children already develop age diabetes. In 20, 30 years, we will have half a million diabetics in this country, rising even further. Or let's look at the debt situation. It was a representative of the ÖVP here at the speaker's desk and spoke of us being on a consolidation course. He said in the same breath that the debt has grown from 60 percent to 73 percent indebtedness. So where's a consolidation? We are still unable, not even in good times to produce surpluses, let alone in bad times. In other words, in all these areas we leave our children a huge construction site, which they eventually have to take off. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] What are we doing now? I really wonder why the young people are not already rebelling. Normally, as we are here, they should have been rebelling and talking about what this is supposed to be. What's that supposed to mean we leave them construction sites over construction sites? I'm not a light-seer, but I can promise one: Our children will go worse than us, and the question arises: Do we really want that? – It's still time to counter it. I am really glad that Dr. Moser from the Court of Auditors repeatedly exhorts. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] All roses, from the SPÖ, from the ÖVP, are spread to him again and again, and I also thank him very much for being this Mahner in the desert. I really hope that we can still create the turn-around, because if we continue like this, it doesn't look good. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you very much, and I would ask you to continue to put your finger on the wound in the interest of our children and also in our interest, because we will eventually be dependent on our children paying our pensions, and then they will have to be able to do so. That is why, Mr President, I ask you: Don't give up! Address to SPÖ and ÖVP: You should take it a little seriously, as the President tells you, and not just scatter roses and do nothing in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25110	Mrs Schönpass is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25132	Mr President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has carried out a comprehensive review of the Sustainable Development Chapter in Austria for the years 2006 to 2009. The results and recommendations of the Court of Auditors report were discussed in detail at two committee meetings. By the way: The term “sustainable development” means a development to meet the needs of today’s generation without endangering the opportunities of future generations, satisfying their own needs and choosing their lifestyle. In principle, both federal and countries are committed to sustainable development. In particular at country level, however, sustainability strategies are missing, the federal government already has them. With regard to the financing of future local Agenda 21 measures, the Court recommends that they be better networked, for example village renewal – LEADER – Agenda 21. An appropriate indicator system would also be established. I hope that the Court of Auditors' recommendations will also be complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25169	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25219	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my view, sustainability is an essential aspect of our political action. The Federal Government, together with the countries, has developed and decided on strategies for the implementation of sustainable development over the past ten years. In its report, the Court of Auditors welcomes the Austrian Sustainable Development Strategy as an important planning instrument. The fact that the “Austrian Sustainable Development Strategy” is a milestone in cooperation between the Federal Government and countries is also a positive assessment by the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Indicators have been identified to measure the successful implementation of the strategies addressed. Compared with those 24 EU countries that have developed sustainability strategies, Austria was able to show the highest level of consistency with EU indicators in 2007. – The Court of Auditors also has a positive opinion. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] However, it has also been found that such indicators are lacking in countries; Mr Schönpass has already mentioned this. The Court of Auditors therefore recommends a regional presentation of indicators for better comparability and, in advance, the implementation of a comprehensive impact assessment. Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor, I can say that there are programmes that allow sustainability to work up to the community level. The village renewal has already been addressed by Mr Hornek, and from my point of view I can point to the important instrument of Agenda 21. Agenda 21 aims to ensure and improve the quality of life in communities for current and future generations. The long-term nature of the measures, the participation of citizens, the practical proximity, transparency, implementation steps, self-organisation and completeness are the special features of the Agenda 21 process. – From my point of view, dear Ladies and gentlemen, an essential instrument for the implementation of sustainability also at local level; by the way, a programme that is co-financed by leaders from EU funds – also an opportunity to collect EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25264	Mr. Dr. Kräuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25286	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! A few more rates of sustainability. The definition is clear, has been explained several times, I just want to quickly come to a very practical example, a classic: Water protection, floodwaters. In the 1960s, a lot of nonsense happened. You've upgraded, installed, now you have to rebuild expensively. However, damage has not made one wise, because the boom as far as the small hydroelectric power plants are concerned is hardly to be grasped. Hundreds of projects are planned: with minimal energy gain, but enormous natural destruction. This is not sustainability. Destroyed waters, destroyed wildlife and plant life, irreparable damage in nature – the consequences are dramatic for the environment as well as for tourism. There is hardly a prospectus with an Austrian advertising that does not show a beautiful unspoiled river landscape, colleague Grillitsch. The state of the instruments is indeed a pitiful one. That's significant. The Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection should devote himself to these matters and heed the Court of Auditors' recommendations so that a clear understanding can be reached. It should be evaluated once, what has ever happened, and a system developed. It is a shame that the Minister for the Environment does not use these things, not realizing that he does not take the Court of Auditors' recommendations seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25321	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25342	Madam President. High house! You have certainly noticed that on today's agenda there are three new products from the Court of Auditors. On the one hand, there is the income report, which has become much more performance-friendly, reader-friendly. It contains new tables, a CD, a statistical Annex so that the viewer, the reader, can continue to use for his work. Furthermore, there is now an EU financial report, which is also a service for the National Council and the Land Days, and an activity report that shows how the Court of Auditors' activity has been last year. Allow me, because the peer review report has been discussed for a long time, that I am very grateful to the staff of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has become new in recent years. We have launched a quality and qualification offensive, developed 40 projects in the Court of Auditors, in cooperation with the employees. This has led to the fact that we have been raised by all three peer reviewers to the Champions League of the billing courts; certainly a good performance of the employees. The staff want to show them that work is important for the general public and also for the National Council and for the legislative bodies. I would like to thank the Members of the Court of Auditors for this. [[General condolences.]] I would also like to mention that after the Court of Auditors' performance has been assessed, the Court of Auditors has come to an end. That means he's 250 years old. We are celebrating this 250th anniversary of the Court of Auditors, and I can now invite you to the relevant activities of the Court of Auditors. I would also like to thank the President, who has promised that an exhibition on this subject can take place here in this House. I would also like to point out that there will be a ceremony on the occasion of the 250th anniversary and that there will also be hiking exhibitions in the country days. We will also try to move more towards the population towards schools. That is why I am also grateful for the fact that the Court of Auditors can also participate in the democracy workshop. I can say 250 years have shown: Control pays off. In the context of the demand process, it has been shown that the level of implementation on and on its own is very high, but especially in those areas where efficiency-enhancing potentials are possible where savings are possible, it is still necessary, especially since there is a need for the interaction of several or changes in competence. I'm allowed They therefore ask to ensure that the necessary changes in competence or synergies can be used in order to actually implement the sustainability that has been addressed in the context of the debate. Thanks again for the recognition of the work. I would like to thank you very much for the reports you have repeatedly discussed, both in committee and in plenary. I can only say that the work in Austria in conjunction with Parliament is excellent. I thank you for this, because this shows that the work pays off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25394	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is required. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-187 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for their attention to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:55:30]] Requests for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25430	We are now entering the debate on the request made by Mr Gabriela Moser, colleagues and colleagues for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate illegal influences in the field of the Ministry of Finance, on the request of Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, to set up a Committee of Inquiry to examine the role and development of former Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser in the BUWOG affair and on the request of Mr Elmar Podgorschek, Members of Parliament, to set up a Committee of Inquiry to examine the role and development of former Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser in the BUWOG affair as well as the Member of the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler, former Board of the Austrian Bundesliga, and former Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser concerning the funding of the Bundesliga by the Republic of Austria. In accordance with the agreement of the political groups, the applicants will first be justified in the order just mentioned, and the subsequent debate will be carried out under one. The requests have now been distributed to all Members. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry with debate (requests) § 33 para. 1 iVm § 33 para. 2 GOG-NR Deputies Josef Bucher, Mag. Ewald Stadler, colleagues concerning the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry pursuant to § 33 GOG-NR for the detailed examination of the role and development of the former Minister of Finance Mag. ==References====External links== the BUWOG affair Subject-matter of the investigation Investigation of the affair around the privatisation of 60,000 Bundeswohnungen der Bauen und Wohnen GmbH (BUWOG) by then Austrian Finance Minister Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser, with particular reference to the role of Grasser regarding commission payments to his acquaintances, PR consultant Peter Hochegger and lobbyist Walter Meischberger. In particular, it should be examined whether power is involved. Karl-Heinz Grasser gave in to insider information about injustice. In particular, possible developments of the ÖVP are to be found and developed. is checked whether the sale harms the Republic or not. Third parties were wrongfully favoured. Investigation order The purpose of the investigation committee is to apply all the instruments provided for in the VO-UA to the subject-matter of the investigation, in particular through the submission of files of the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Federal Ministry of Finance and by the consultation of information persons determining the subject-matter of the investigation. Reasons Not least due to the then role of Grassers as Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria, the Causa BUWOG appears to be urgently intelligible in order not to permanently damage the reputation of the rule of law of Austria and even the reputation of the Austrian economic location. The confidence of citizens in the independence of justice seems to be almost exhausted due to the sluggish investigations and the impression of class justice respectively. Regular promotions of service providers and government politicians are persistent. A public discussion about this has now been launched. Overall, far-reaching investigations with the aim of relentless information by the elected representatives of the people appear in demarcation for investigations through government-coloured institutions, in order to finally break the protective sign of the party's proporze and finally clarify the case. The National Council wants to decide: “For the investigation of the affair around the privatisation of 60,000 Bundeswohnungen der Bauen und Wohnen GmbH (BUWOG) by the Austrian Finance Minister Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser, with in particular the role of Grasser as regards commission payments to his acquaintances, PR consultant Peter Hochegger and lobbyist Walter Meischberger respectively. The question is whether Karl-Heinz Grasser was misdirecting insider information as well as possible developments of the ÖVP. the question of whether the sale caused damage to the Republic or whether. A committee of inquiry consisting of a total of 16 members in relation to 5 SPÖ 5 ÖVP 3 FPÖ 2 Green 1 BZÖ shall be set up to benefit third parties unjustly.’ Request In accordance with Article 33(2) of the GOG-NR, the signed Members also call for a brief debate on this request. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry with debate (requests) § 33 para. 1 iVm § 33 para. 2 GOG-NR by Mr Podgorschek, Mr Rosary and Mr Colleagues concerning the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry pursuant to § 33 GOG-NR for the detailed examination of the role and development of the former Minister of Finance Mag. ==References====External links== the BUWOG affair as well as the member of the National Council Peter Westenthaler, the former Board of Directors of the Austrian Bundesliga and the former Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser concerning the funding of the Bundesliga by the Republic of Austria Subject-matter of the investigation Investigation of the affair around the privatisation of 60,000 Bundeswohnungen der Bauen und Wohnen GmbH (BUWOG) by then Austrian Finance Minister Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser, with particular reference to the role of Grasser regarding commission payments to his acquaintances, PR consultant Peter Hochegger and lobbyist Walter Meischberger. In particular, it should be examined whether power is involved. Karl-Heinz Grasser gave in to insider information about injustice. In particular, possible developments of the ÖVP are to be found and developed. is checked whether the sale harms the Republic or not. Third parties were wrongfully favoured. ==References== In December 2003, the National Council decided to send the Bundesliga Associations a million euros for the promotion of young people, but this money was probably eliminated from the Bundesliga's financial debt. Member of the National Council Peter Westenthaler was at this time the board of football - Bundesliga, Mag. Karl- Heinz Grasser Minister of Finance. Various circumstances suggest that grasses could have known of any unlawful uses of the funding and that a corresponding agreement was reached between Westenthaler and Grasser. In this context, it is necessary to verify whether Westenthaler had intervened with Grasser in the sense of the Bundesliga, whether Westenthaler and Grasser knew of any potential use of funding and in what form Westenthaler, Grasser and other persons are involved in the Causa. Investigation order The purpose of the investigation committee is to apply all the instruments provided for in the VO-UA, in particular through the submission of files of the Federal Ministry of Justice, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Family and Youth, the Federal Ministry of State Defense and Sport and the Federal Ministry of Finance, as well as the consultation of information subjects determining the subject-matter of the investigation. Reasons Not least due to the then function of Grassers as Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria, however, the Causa BUWOG also appears to be urgently intimidating by the Austrian football Bundesliga in order not to permanently damage the reputation of the rule of law of Austria and even the reputation of the economic location Austria. The confidence of citizens in the independence of justice seems to be almost exhausted due to the sluggish investigations and the impression of class justice respectively. Regular promotions of service providers and government politicians are persistent. A public discussion about this has now been launched. In the case of the award of grants to the Austrian Bundesliga, the behaviour of the highest executive bodies of the Republic and their possible cooperation with representatives of the Bundesliga appear worthy of clarification beyond legal requirements. The National Council wants to decide: “For the investigation of the affair around the privatisation of 60,000 Bundeswohnungen der Bauen und Wohnen GmbH (BUWOG) by the Austrian Finance Minister Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser, with in particular the role of Grasser as regards commission payments to his acquaintances, PR consultant Peter Hochegger and lobbyist Walter Meischberger respectively. the question whether Karl-Heinz Grasser insider information to ==References====External links==* Official website the question of whether the sale caused damage to the Republic or whether. Third parties were wrongfully favoured, of significant interest, as well as to examine whether funding funds from the Republic of Austria were used for Austrian football Bundesliga and whether illegal agreements were made, in particular, between the former Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser and the then Bundesliga Board of Directors Peter Westenthaler, a Committee of Inquiry consisting of a total of 16 delegates in relation to 5 SPÖ 5 ÖVP 3 Grüne 1 BZÖ.’ Request In accordance with Article 33(2) of the GOG-NR, the signed Members also call for a brief debate on this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25710	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes. For reasons of reasons, the first speakers have a speaking time of 10 minutes. Opinions from members of the Federal Government should not exceed 10 minutes. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Moser. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25738	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! “Slabiar” – with long i – today the “South German newspaper” is titled and dedicated to our valuable former finance minister a whole page. We are not with this Causa for the first time in reporting international media, and it will certainly not be the last time. But what we are talking about with this report at international level – I don’t want to talk about Financial Times at all – I don’t want to talk about “spiegel” or “star”, but just this example from our neighboring country – what we are bringing with this reporting of political lights to Austria is really embarrassing. This is scandalous, because every time in the international media it becomes clear that we in Austria oppose – you, from the ÖVP and you from the SPÖ – to finally create political clarity, to clarify, to analyse, to really submit the Grasser system and its friendly economy to a political post-control. You have refused the accompanying control anyway. That's not how it goes anymore. You will not risk being constantly shut down internationally with your, so to speak, pre-democratic practices. I say extra “pre-democratic practices”, because go to Berlin, look at Brussels – I did last week – where these topics are really in the mouth. Then also talk about the instruments available to the parliaments there when it comes to clarifying and exercising oppositional control! Mr Gaßner is my witness. I also have many colleagues in the SPÖ – I am not just saying SPD – who have long been insisting on being examined. I don't have to quote for long. Colleagues: It's under investigation before the summer. Mr Jarolim: It is expected to be examined before the summer. – Now we already have March, that’s already “before summer”. So we could really go over to decision-making now. In any event, we need some more time to make clear about the procedure, about the due dates, about the procedure: Who will load?, about the procedure: What is the Presidency?, How is the Acquiring?, What is the file material? It'll take time anyway. That's why: If it's supposed to be before the summer, why not run the lead now? Think above all about it – I even have the Rules of Procedure of the German Bundestag; there are results of Austrian-German Friendship Group meetings –: It is a basic equipment in the German Bundestag! A delegation of Austrian MPs was already in Berlin and, even with regard to investigation committee rights, has been thoroughly informed on the ground about these mechanisms. The Vice-President of the German Bundestag has also said, yes, of course, it is common for them to use investigation committees – minority law – at least three per legislative period, because it is simply about controlling government work. I do not need to explain the importance of control in the case of Grasser. You really only need to get the last media coverage before the spiritual eye and let it happen. I just want to refresh your memory with a little graphic. [[The speaker keeps up to date the copy of a graphic from the magazine “FORMAT” with the title “Scandal-Organigram”.]] Look This scandalal organigram from the “FORMAT” from 14 days ago! [[Abg. Head: The FORMAT does not, however, receive a right to apply for an investigation committee!]] The whole interconnected history of these grass companies, these high-level companies, these consulting funds, these commission funds. - Yeah, what's the big deal for? What's the whole thing for? - It's clear here! Mr Kopf, explain to me why it is necessary to make such complicated company relationships when it is not about concealing something! That's why we should get to work quickly. [[Abg. Head: What does this have to do with politics?]] – I would like to answer that question for a long time. [[Abg. Head: What? What?]] Yeah, it's clear. [[Abg. Head: A company braid!]] It's money flown. They themselves know that it was a political decision to sell the federal housing companies – a political question, a political decision! [[Abg. Head: Ahh!]] [[Abg. Head: And what does that have to do with the company braid?]] You know very well that commission funds amounted to almost €10 million. It is a political question, Mr President-in-Office, and I am now happy to tell you that the witnesses of Hochegger/Meischberger are solidifying around a company called Mandarin, and this company Mandarin is also in this company union. That is my very clear answer to your very simple question, and the actual answer to your question is that we need the Committee of Inquiry, not only because it has to be clarified, not only because you have also said that there will be an investigation committee, but also because the judicial system is completely overwhelmed. [[Abg. Head: But say something...!]] I am going to take your second argument as soon as possible. They always say, first of all, justice and then Parliament. I say to you that Parliament has examined in parallel at BAWAG, the Parliament has examined in parallel with Noricum, and Parliament has examined in parallel with Lucona. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You want to play judges!]] - Why not now?- Oh, my God! Think only of the capacity of justice – I repeat that, supported by new facts! The bottlenecks are actually a half-judicial scandal. We need a second committee of inquiry to clarify the course of justice. I'll tell you once again, with newspaper articles supporting: 40 prosecutors for the corruption prosecutor were promised, now there are seven. The pipes, simply spoken, from the last hole in the face of the convoluted, which it is necessary to investigate and to rework. And you don't do anything again unless Mrs. Bandion-Ortner promises, there may be 21 jobs now. Just, you owe us these planning sites since the StPO reform. That's why my other circle is: It is urgent to use this Committee of Inquiry soon. Justice needs it as well as political hygiene, as does our international reputation, our reputation in Central Europe. I can continue this. The Minister of Finance answers my parliamentary questions – a simple control instrument. It is about the damage to the Republic's sustainable loss of revenue in millions, double-digital amounts. I have just received new answers from Mitterlehner: The monthly rents of financial offices, which are now rented in to private individuals – System Plach – and not to the federal real estate company, property of the Republic, make up €300 000, 400 000 per month. I've heard this from Mitterlehner. But that is not worth studying, as it could have come so far that there is this monthly capital outflow towards private bags. No, there's blocked, there you look a little bad and insulted like Mr. Klubobmann's head. No, you're sinking inside, maybe even out of anger or fear, I don't know, the interpretation spaces are big. And the Minister of Finance says: “Because of the current judicial investigations, the Federal Ministry of Finance does not comment on the speculations made in the request, for which I am seeking understanding.” – Please, our understanding is ending! [[Abg. Head: But this is your problem!]] We need a committee of inquiry, because such answers can only be used to generate more internationally and to embarrass nationally. Or if you ask Mrs. Minister – normal parliamentary control – she will of course answer you: ongoing procedure and so on. Everything is so to speak, because you experience much more without being inspected. In part, it is also true, because the telephone protocols provide some information. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: There is also one – how to say? – great outrage among people on the ground. If you do not mind the fact that democratic standards are being trampled on with feet, that control mechanisms are not perceived that we as Parliament are still not taken seriously by the government groups, how can you say that anger is actually standing for people in the population up to here? Read only in the “Economic Sheet” – various questions to the Minister. I have no doubt that Mr. Grasser has said that he would like to have a committee of inquiry as soon as possible, first of all as soon as possible, and secondly as soon as possible. – Yes, why don’t we do it?! - Yes, I know, because you're the blockers. [[Abg. Head: Everyone can't order it with us!]] [[Call the SPÖ: It was good!]] I'm saying it all the way to the conclusion: There is a clear reason why you want to block, because every week – you can stand up to the coming Friday with joy – a new exposing fact becomes apparent. If you were wise, you would examine earlier, because in the meantime not so much scandalous material will accumulate. The longer you block, the more scandalous behavior comes to the public, and they will no longer be able to cope with the Enlightenment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25924	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler, also as an applicant. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e25945	Madam President. High house! What has happened since the last debate on the setting up of a committee of inquiry, which we held on 20 July. This year, have they been in plenary here? ==References== We know from the “press hour” with the former ÖVP Klubobmann Andreas Khol that Karl-Heinz Grasser, the former ÖVP finance minister, was the future hope of the ÖVP and would almost become party leader. Khol attaches himself to the Order and says he has prevented this against the resistance of Erwin Pröll. - That's not what I invented, you've probably seen it all. Yes, it was. And then, a few days later, the current vice chancellor and finance minister comes and says that Karl-Heinz Grasser has nothing to do with the ÖVP at all. How did he say? – Mr Grasser has everything to answer for himself. The politically unappetizing soup will not blow out the ÖVP and it. So if there is a politically unacceptable soup that the ÖVP no longer wants to extinguish, then the time is ripe for an investigation committee, one would think. I hope that you will therefore agree. [[I should like to congratulate the BZÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] The ÖVP Secretary-General is going further: He even says he can't even see the face of the former shooting star and the former hope of the future of ÖVP Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[Abg. Bucher: The most beautiful Finance Minister of all time!]] He can't see it anymore. [[Call at the SPÖ:Who said that?]] - Kaltenegger. He acts as if he's experiencing some stomach elevation when he sees grass. But, ladies and gentlemen, I do not repeat what I am on 20th. In one point, Mr Moser was absolutely right: The Grasser case is becoming more and more a judicial scandal. I just want to show you this by example. – There are dozens of examples, but my speaking time is not enough, but we really need an investigation committee. I can give you an example of how different justice is. I have here the application for arrest or the order of arrest, the arrest of Karl Kröll. He may be a term to you, Mr Bartenstein; he has directed the garden with you. Karl Kröll is the brother of the Colonel Kröll, who died in mysterious circumstances, who was found dead in the Kampusch case. Do you know what the reason is, ladies and gentlemen? Just so you know how far it's been in the court since there's no judge left. Imprisonment is – I quote –: That Kröll had the intention of enhancing himself unlawfully, with the intention of harming others by passing on data from the Kampusch Act to the MP to the National Council Dr. Peter Pilz. - Quote. That's the reason; I have the document here. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: And you don't have the chance of profit...!]] – The intention of profit is also that he would have had money - which he did not vote at all - and that he would probably like to pass on the information to the newspapers next to the Peter Pilz, who is well known to pay a lot for information according to the prosecutor's office. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't mean to laugh. Instead of being informed in this country, what is actually happening around the case – now that the colleague Amon is not there – Kampusch really did happen, this is happening! But we will have to look at that now, because the Kampusch still has the Chuzpe to complain to the Republic now. I was pleased to hear this announcement made by Mr Ganzger because he is now actually forcing the Republic to clarify this case again. Thank you, Mr Ganzger, for bringing this complaint, because now the Republic has to confess color! – But this is another chapter. But in Austria one is arrested if one is suspected of wanting to contact a Member, no matter what Members, and to provide him with information, on the basis of a peak protocol by a well-known official of the Ministry of the Interior – ÖVP. I've got this black on white – I haven't taken it with me for the last time; now I have it – with my colleague Pilz still assuming that he had paid for it. This will have to be the fungus with the prosecutor himself. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the difference between the former Minister of Finance! Mr Kröll, of course, is not a former finance minister, but only a gardener. He did make the garden of my colleague Bartenstein, but he's just a gardener. The gardener was, therefore, arrested, but the Minister of Finance out of office, the former hope of the Austrian People's Party, can rely on him even to be able to meet with Meischberger on a hearing basis, Meischberger can agree with Plach, which would have led to a arrest for any other person immediately because of the danger of dating and the danger of being darkened and would immediately end up in detention. With Grasser neither Mr Meischberger nor Mr Hochegger nor Mr Plech are brought to the close of an investigative detention, ladies and gentlemen. That is why Mrs Moser is right when she says that this case is, in fact, already a judicial scandal. I, ladies and gentlemen, am no longer surprised by this judicial system. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, Greens and FPÖ.]] I am not surprised at anything at all, not only because I am doing my own experiences with a public prosecutor who believes that I can politicize, but because – and I am telling you that in all forms – the unfortunate criminal trial novels that the Minister Böhmdorfer has made need to be reversed. [[It was in favour of BZÖ and Greens as well as SPÖ representatives.]] The investigative judge – Mr Jarolim, I hope that we will really find ourselves soon – must be reintroduced. The prosecutors need to be controlled by an independent judicial body, and they need parliamentary control on their own, because only by this example will Kröll become clear how special units from the Ministry of the Interior work independently completely away from the law against citizens who are trying to provide information, and since the prosecutors are still playing part, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Bucher: Working alone!]] You know, a few weeks ago, also again on 20th. January, the following happened: ==References== Janen probably would not have believed me a journalist, but since the editor of a newspaper itself became the victim of a hearing action, where afterward a well-known official of the Ministry of the Interior called him and said: Let’s never talk about it, it was a b’open G’s layer!, since then the journalists also know what it has beaten in the country. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible! With us, the detectors are always being examined! Not the abuses, the decks!]] That was Dr. Fellner, who has a confidential conversation in connection with an absurd claim about the death of Peter Alexander. He then receives a call, during which he is invited and in which he is referred to this conversation, which he has only conducted with a German journalist, he should state whether he can make statements about the circumstances of the death of Peter Alexander. Mr Fellner. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. He also pointed out that, in this country, without any authorisation, the measures given to the police were carried out with the special units set up under Ernst Strasser, against any disloving, even against journalists and editors, ladies and gentlemen. That is why, in Permanence, there is also a need for judicial control in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the High House, regardless of this committee of inquiry. [[It was in favour of BZÖ and representatives of Greens and FPÖ.]] With regard to the next plenary session on the ÖVP, I would like to say that I know that the SPÖ would like to agree, it can only not, from coalition discipline; I even have a few meters of understanding of this – the next rites of removal will come, and you will have to set up this committee of inquiry sooner or later. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Let’s take a look at today’s result!]] Now Pröll – who knows how long he is still party leader, that is another chapter – is dissociating himself from Kaltenegger, in Bälde not only will Mr Khol dissociate himself, but also the Mr. Head and the rest of his group, and then we will be able to talk about when we finally get an investigation committee, because precisely because justice fails, it will be necessary, with a accompanying parliamentary investigation check, to ensure that the judicial legs are made.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26090	Mr Rosenkranz is now speaking as an applicant. 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26111	Madam President. First of all, the fact that three parties in the House, which hold a little more than 40 percent of the mandates in total, want a committee of inquiry, is quite clear where the reform has to take place in the House and that no standstill has been announced when it comes to establishing a committee of inquiry as a minority right here in this House. There is no delay either. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] Today we have dealt with the old-age recovery law. It is now a matter of political old loads, which are also reworked. We talked about the cable car law. – From the cable car sometimes, if it is up, a rope shaft rises to climb other heights. – It is actually also about rope companies operating in Austria in the near-state area. Foreign Minister Spindelegger said at the outset that we are so proud that we received the anti-corruption academy in Laxenburg under the UN's opening. Perhaps the location has not been completely unwittingly chosen. Perhaps we've been out of the race with Laxenburg in Austria Palermo for a long time. More and more people in Austria are asking: In Germany, there is a minister who has no footnotes, and with us there are some who do not have any shackles or other methods. – At least it has something to do with the feet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are constantly fed in this unappetising matter with brocades coming through the media that arrive to the public, which in part even find entrance to Cabarets, but it is not laughing when these phone protocols are listed. These brocades develop into proper broths, sometimes even to unpleasant soups, which we no longer want to extinguish. The fact is that more and more Austrians are still in the neck, and there are reactions – from cough to gastric elevation, as Mr. Stadler noted. It is said again and again – above all from the SPÖ, and this argument is not new – that it is necessary to let independent justice work. Well, that is a principle, but if, for reasons already identified, independent justice is no longer called upon to examine quickly and independently, then it is time to turn on a self-confident Parliament, because this is what our citizens expect. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The prestige of politics...!]] At this time, where the reputation of politics is suffering from such incidents, the citizens are waiting for information, and we can only do so. If we still hear in the phone records and read that one says to the other on the phone: I know a state politician with 5 000 €, who can be the prosecutor soundly, that's the one who can sound well with the supervision of the prosecutor and the like, and then even the reaction is that there is such a thing in Austria that you can live in such a corrupt state at all, then you also have to ask where this prosecutor is now being controlled. We really want to know who these people are who have been addressed. Or are these diary entries when it comes to the millions who have flown into certain hands from Libya or Iraq, perhaps already a defence strategy, that one wants to build a scaffolding, that perhaps one wants to be incalculable if one claims it? – I don’t know, but many citizens don’t know either. And I, as a parliamentarian, as elected representative, cannot stand before my citizens when they ask me what's going on, and I say I don't know, I don't know more than what the paper knows. And if I want to get more out, I'm being prevented by a majority in this House. – It simply can’t be the method in the long run! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A committee of inquiry now has to work out the incidents along with it. It is not only about what is now criminally relevant, but it is also about the propensity politicians here in Austria, when it comes to commission payments and the like. That is why we have, of course, also tabled this proposal, which is consistent with the content, but we have expanded it, because in the last few days there has been something else. It is about the question of sponsoring the Bundesliga with incorrect donations. We also want to have some information on what happened to tax money. This is by far one of the best interests of a self-confident Parliament. You have the opportunity, with a decision on one of these applications, depending on whichever you prefer, best to all, to ensure that an information is made. That's what the population demands of us, of you. We should give it to her quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26179	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes each. First of all, Mr. Dr. Herber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26216	Madam President. High house! A little bit of a Déjà-vu experience at a later hour has already given us three applications again today. Again on the question of clarity: The SPÖ is for a parliamentary examination of the Grasser system, but the conditions must be met. [[Abg. Brosz: Bravo! ...!]] And as long as the main people have a right of compensation, the whole thing is pointless. [[Abg. Bookbooker: The grasser doesn't take off! He'd like to come!]] In so far as Mr Bucher is concerned, there is a change to the last debate on 20 November. Yes, an impressive confirmation of how such a right of withdrawal actually works. Let's blend back! "Grasser wants to investigate committee", it said in the "time in the picture" on 3 October. ==References== I would really like to see a committee of inquiry on this issue, said Grasser on 3 March. May. - Quote. [[Abg. Booker: What are you doing?]] And last week, Mr. Bucher, cheers from you. They rejoice because Grasser appears at the Hypo-Research Committee and says: This shows that the investigative committee is here a command of the hour and the argument of herbs, grassers would be released from the statement due to the ongoing legal procedure, has collapsed. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Exactly!]] A mixture of naïveness and populism, because it is logical that the third act is coming. 23. February, Klagenfurt: Grasser refers to his right of release and of course does not say a note to the mail Meischberger, where it concerns the license, to Tilo Berlin or to the credit with the mother-in-law. [[Abg. Bucher: You want to clarify the BUWOG! Or the hypo?! You should know what you want!]] And he even reasons that, Mr. Bucher. He says that he derives from the numerous investigation procedures he lists: BUWOG procedures, AvW procedures, suspicion of false testimony and so on. What he did, that is, a broad side against the Minister of Finance, he could not have done that. I hope that's recorded in the EIA's notebook accordingly. [[Abg. Bucher: Do you even know what you want? That would be important!]] And then it comes to the fourth act, Mr. Bucher. There I am with you again, and honestly, this is no longer naïve populist, that is unfair, because you say: Finally, agree with the Committee, because – this is O-Ton from you – the former Minister of Finance has also appeared before the Kärntner Hypo-Research Committee and has said it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: On certain questions!]] Mr Bucher, you will also read APA reports. Grasser has not stated at the decisive points, and you claim the opposite. But it's clear to us what it's all about. Of course, you also want to divert from the Carinthian vice, who said that I would like to have a bit of the positive future of the BZÖ. [[The speaker holds up a newspaper article on which a photo of Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch can be seen]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I know he's the other guy in the meantime. [[Abg. Bucher: You don't know that! You know a shit!]] But you have the Westenthaler, which is already in a football match today, which is no longer recognizable in here. So you have every reason to reflect something here that does not correspond to the realities. Because that Grasser told the Hypo committee, you can't make anyone seriously aware of that. [[Abg. Bucher: You did not follow this seriously in committee!]] This is a good thing as far as the Dorotheum is concerned. You have made a request to the Court of Auditors. Step by step, we're getting to the finish! On the shortcomings in the field of justice, Mr Jarolim, I believe that in all clarity last week, what is to be said has been said. We do not need to add much, but there is still an increase in the last discussion in January. Last time it was two applications, this time it's three. And honestly, the topic now ranges from football to BUWOG to gambling. Now we have to imagine this in reality, only the discussions on the Rules of Procedure in order to cover the issue. Yes, how is that supposed to work with documents, develop with witnesses? [[Abg. Petzner: Have a little work to do!]] Therefore, my proposal: We – all five political groups – should discuss in peace and see how we can take a compact approach and develop a test programme. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That, I think, is something that makes sense. This should be done, but not hundreds of witnesses and 50 different topics. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Witnesses are uninteresting...!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Petzner and Mr Bucher.]] Grasser as an accused person with the right of release – he laughs, ladies and gentlemen, when three different requests with 50 different topics come into the house! The time is ripe for an investigation committee if there is no longer this right of withdrawal. And I'm sure this investigation committee will come.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26427	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26449	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Petzner, your call for action was absolutely indispensable: Then you have to keep working! I have not seen you in any of the last four committees of inquiry. Obviously – well, that's not true, we've already had two, there you were in Parliament – you're too lazy for an investigation committee, but you want to use one. [[Abg. Petzner: I wasn't in Parliament yet!]] That's not all right either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By the way, I must say to this constant child-moving: Mr Scheuch from Carinthia no longer belongs to the BZÖ, but he probably does not belong to the FPÖ either. The colleagues today, Grasser, Meischberger and Co, do not belong to you anymore, even though you were in fact friends with them?- Oh, my God! You've already forgotten your friend economy and ropes you've had with these rulers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pendl: Unheard!]] That means to us – and I can join my colleague Herb; he asked if I had listed certain things on my notebook: First of all, we want justice to be determined. [[Abg. May. Stefan: We have no problem with the Enlightenment! We have nothing to hide!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] The procedures are to be conducted and a decision is to be taken by the judicial authorities. Criminal offences need to be resolved here. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Give her more prosecutors!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler:... the problem, not the solution!]] This is the first one, because everyone who has been sitting here in a committee of inquiry in the last few years knows very well that the right of withdrawal of the persons in question has always been the igniting argument. We had information people – and you were in the Committee of Inquiry yourself – where every second one of them decided, because he said he was in an ongoing procedure. [[Abg. New builder:... were the blackened files!]] Before the court has not decided, a committee of inquiry makes no sense at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true!]] This does not mean that we are in principle opposed to a committee of inquiry, but we have made the experience and experience of recent years very well. I can remind myself of political shows where representatives of the opposition questioned information people as if they were in court or in court. We have experienced representatives of the opposition parties who have played confidential protocols and confidential documents to the media. The Committee was not even finished, the first journalist was already fed with documents. So I mean, as a political show, you don't have to use an investigation committee at all. 40 per cent of Members, Mr Rosenkranz said, called for an investigation committee here. To be honest, there are three applications, there are three different applications. If the opposition were so agreed in the application for the establishment of an investigation committee, it could have agreed at least on a common text and on a common subject of investigation, for then it would have been said: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Next time...!]] Okay, it's a concern to you, but to mix herb and beet in committee of inquiry, that's really not what we want and need. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] As I said, in the end – No, I explained it: [[Abg. Brosz:.. agree!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] First of all, justice is to be determined – and then political responsibility is clarified in a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's nothing at all!]] That's the right order. And we do not need parallel investigations at all, because then it does not lead exactly to anything, as the last committees of inquiry have shown in this House. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We have already heard from Mr Stadler about Kampusch's affair and many other things. I can still remember that I myself have been to this committee of inquiry on this whole history of the Ministry of the Interior. Most have quit, others have said at all that they don't have time, are on vacation or anything else. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: And then the committees have been turned off! Mrs. Tamandel, you get the "golden switch"!]] It was very easy: Before the judicial system did not end, this investigation committee could be completely forgotten – and we do not want to do so. We are not available for a political show! We want to find out where information is needed. And after a decision by the Justice, you'll see. We certainly do not lock up a committee of inquiry, because we do not want to hide or hide.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26682	Mr Podgorschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26704	Madam President. High house! If I have understood this correctly, next time the government groups will agree if the opposition will make a joint request for the setting up of an investigation committee. Apart from that, ladies and gentlemen, it is always interesting that there is something new from plenary session to plenary session. The honourable Member has said: The extent is already such that it is almost impossible to carry out an investigation committee. – This is also a method: You delay and you delay the whole thing until simply the size is too large. Only one by-catch: I have no problem personally with this, even if the Causa Scheuch would be examined, because if, as he always claims, the Lord has a pure vest, that can't be a problem either. Just as Mr. E. Grasser always says he has a white vest, so he has nothing against a committee of inquiry. That is why I do not understand why the government parties always oppose a committee of inquiry. [[Call at the FPÖ – towards SPÖ and ÖVP – what are you afraid of?]] After all, what are you really afraid of? What could happen? – The only thing that has now changed or what is different from our request for the BZÖ, for example, is if you have read the applications more precisely, our request is in the first part completely identical to that of the BZÖ. Not because we had no ideas to make our own requests, but because we wanted to document that, of course, we are also in favour of this request. The only thing we have, of course, added is the events that have emerged over the Bundesliga over the last few weeks, in which the BZÖ member of Westenthal may also be involved. After all, the Federal Office for Corruption in the Bundesliga and at the ÖFB conducted an investigation. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: He's right!]] At least one and a half hours were there, and it is assumed that under some circumstances the federal league's debts would have been covered with money intended for the promotion of youth. For example, the “Kurier” has quite clear questions to ask. There are protocols of the Bundesliga, internal protocols: “... he has reached the deal with finance thanks to personal talks with the Minister of Finance” – note: that was the then ÖVP Minister Grasser. Today he dements: Everything has only expired at official level...’ The second time the “Kurier” states: "The funding million approved by the National Council was intended by the Bundesliga as a youth promotion. The fact is that – and that is indisputable now – “: According to clear internal documents, the money was used to pay the financial debt. Westenthaler claims that the football Bundesliga had been unable to pay at the time, he had to save it from bankruptcy. The truth is: The Bundesliga had an securities capacity of millions and could have settled the financial debt from this asset. Westenthaler continues to claim that he was not responsible for the Bundesliga's finances. The fact is that he was solely responsible for the deal.” In fact, his co-management director also subsequently distanced himself from him and this procedure. I don't want to go that far into this thing now, but one thing is clear: We will also get new aspects on the table next time we discuss the setting up of a committee of inquiry. It will again be claimed that the matter is too big, that it is too extensive and that we are no longer able to carry out an investigation committee. But of course! And I will personally support it, ladies and gentlemen, that it may succeed next time that all three opposition parties make a joint request. Then I look at whether ÖVP and SPÖ will agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26754	Mr Mag. Kogler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26776	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think Mr Stadler mentioned it and quoted it. This will not continue – with all friendships that otherwise prevail in other political issues. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! It is announced that a political soup is already so unappetising that it does not want to empty out an official vice-chanc and party leader. So it's standing around the table of the Republic of Soups that are so cruel that they don't want to be extinguished and should – or what? So what? Then what do we do? She's still playing ahead. That's all us?- Oh, my God! This statement alone is, in itself, a justification for an investigational order. It's logical, and a committee of inquiry is still in place. That's not going to work out. And if the associated Secretary-General still assists and says that he can not see the face – that is, the face from the grass – at all – yes, the man can be helped! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Something must also be done and it must be remedied, indeed. It can't go on like this. And, in fact, this whole argumentation is now going to be completely empty – and, if necessary, from my colleague Herbs. This can already be debated in principle with: if justice determines and parallels Parliament, but now it has already gone a long way. At least 117 reasons why Parliament should have been working for a long time. First – I remind you –: Without Parliament and its committees – we should even be proud of it – this Causa would not even have gotten the momentum and the material thrust. It was a subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions, which, however, has been a long time ago, which first brought these entire BUWOG stories to the fore in a relatively timely manner. But there were a few missing links, the puzzle could not be combined with the possibilities that this subcommittee has – that is why the U-committee should also become a minority right, by the way. He has not been able to link all of this in this context. But there were essential things in terms of plech as far as Grasser is concerned. As a result, it was the Court of Auditors, an institution of the National Council, with the mandate of the National Council, which essentially delivered it, when the prosecutor's office finally had to start, since it had material at all. That wasn't the prosecutor's office on its own or the justice. Not at all! They've watched long enough. The Court of Auditors report on its own should have been sufficient for something to happen. Nothing happens! But we and others have not loosened, and then – unfortunately, one must say – only through a random hit, because there was the financial crisis and because it has broken down Immofinance and Immoeast, certain account movements have appeared. That was such a by-catch, so it wasn't the main fish, it was a by-catch. And suddenly you've seen: What are they for? And finally, justice has to do something. What do they file for? “Where was with” performance?” That's tragic, that's really tragic. That sounds so funny, but it's really tragic that it takes so long until something sets in motion. That would have to be a reason for us to make a committee of inquiry here, namely to “blow up” all these networks and all these ropes again, and at least a few – I have not said everyone anymore for a long time; not everyone needs to be afraid if anyone else is there – to reveal small and large scandals around grassers. But a few key actions would have to be considered to ensure that this hygiene act is done for the Republic – and that is what this Parliament has to do. There you should no longer stand across the stable, but open the way, because it is your task as a parliamentarian to ensure that the government is controlled where the Deputy Chancellor already says it is politically all so unappropriate, and not blocking it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: “Unappetising soup”!]] They Abuse in Truth Your mandate, because you have long known exactly that Parliament could and should examine. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And it must, and it will come! Parliament must continue because it is not guaranteed that a justice that has looked away for six years will continue. But now, I have to admit, we already have the impression that what is going on is because, by the way, justice can no longer afford to do differently with what has been sent out. It's so obvious who's meeting here for what purpose! I don't need to be a special lawyer that's going a little further. However: It's not all criminally relevant what happened there. Not at all. Much more interesting is the way in which such biotopes can be created, interconnected between the economy and political actors, who constantly manage to steal away millions of people from behind the back of the Republic and the taxpayer. And you want to watch. - It won't go on like this! Madam President, there will be these committee of inquiry proposals at each subsequent plenary session, because if you do not want to hear them, you will feel and be able to sit down. The arguments are correct every time and are getting more and more correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26839	Mr Mag. Stadler is reported as the next word. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26861	Mr Herzegovina is afraid of the files coming here. Come on, the statics of the house are in danger! The Committee of Inquiry only comes after Parliament's conversion. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - No? We've still been lucky! Perhaps we will still experience it before Parliament is rebuilt. So that didn't really convince me. Come out here and just say and simply, the coalition partner doesn't want it, you want it, but he doesn't want it. That's honest, and everyone knows it is. But now to the ÖVP. Mrs Tamandl was previously briefed by Mr Schüssel, for he was one of those people who had turned off the investigation committee, so it was about Mobiltel Bulgaria. Turned off! You turned off each time, ladies and gentlemen! [[towards ÖVP]] The Committee of Inquiry has already promoted something, too much! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You didn't fit because you were very effective there. And don't come to me with the witness survey now! In a public prosecutor – who by the way asked the citizens in a different way – I would not have had the impression that he would have admitted that he had overlooked a thick document convoluted by Mr Strasser in the act until the case was delayed – of course one of you, staff representatives of the ÖVP. So, ladies and gentlemen: We have discovered it – and you have turned it off! That's in the difference. Don't say we didn't get anything out! You turned it off, whenever it got brittle for you. That's the background. And I would love to know what Mr Hochegger had to do with you. You know that very well! The taller is just as out of your mind and as well as with the grass, with your hope for the future. And please, Mrs Tamandl, you obviously do not know who Mr Scheuch is going to hunt with. Why don't you ask your vice chancellor and head of the party, ladies and gentlemen, his fellow students, who is permanently with him at the “Sternhof” in Oberkärnten. Ask yourself – we will find out on every occasion. Carinthia is a village where you can learn everything! But you obviously do not know where your own vice chancellor Josef Pröll will hunt! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Of course! What do you think about why they almost fall around the neck when they meet at the hunter's ball? - Because they are ancient spezls, ladies and gentlemen! That is clearly not what Mr Schüssel has told you before. In the future, send my colleague Tamandl better! Ladies and gentlemen, your colleague Scheuch, your friend Scheuch is! We have no problem with that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] “Polit show”, that I do not laugh, ladies and gentlemen! If we did not understand how to achieve results in the Committee, you would not have had to turn it off. If it were just a political show, you wouldn't have had a problem with it. And then the colleague Tamandl comes and says you would agree if the opposition found a common text. Then she would have noticed we were serious. [[Abg. Tamandl: That's not true!]] - Oh, now comes an intermediate call! - Please, you're talking. - No? No call again! Mr. Schüssel, better letters. It can't even deliver an intermediate call when it comes to it. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] So always when it got hot for the blacks, you turned the committee off, and unfortunately it's the way you played each time. [[towards SPÖ]] That's gonna fly you around your ears sometime. But, of course, the blacks have heavy weight to cover here, because their hope for the future Grasser is of course being so saddened that even the coldenegger can not see him again. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] - You're right, you can really help that. If we have it in the committee of inquiry, it doesn't matter if he speaks or not, because, Mrs Tamandl, we will have quite another witness. And other witnesses have also spoken in earlier committees of inquiry – more than you loved. It's not interesting whether the grasser is talking there or not. It is interesting whether the other people are talking there. And they will talk, ladies and gentlemen, if Parliament takes its investigation seriously! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, a word on the Bundesliga. You know: It doesn't matter to us whether you're studying the Bundesliga. In a case where the financial debt is already paid and then the funding comes, I have no problem with it. Whether it brings something else is different. I also think you should focus on a few things, and these few things are already happening here. But let's calm this down, I don't have a problem with it. We are always for committee of inquiry, quite the contrary: We are in favour of making this investigative committee instrument much more useful for the opposition – and cannot be permanently turned off by the EIA.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e26952	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Moser, colleagues, to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall also vote on the request from Members of Parliament to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, I should like to vote on the request made by Mr Podgorschek, ladies and gentlemen for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[22:47:03]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e27025	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1427/A(E) to 1463/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Questions 7767/J to 7820/J were also raised. Request within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e27046	I also announce that, in the context of the Self-employed Application 1428/A, a request by 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. is made by the Court of Auditors on the implementation of a special act of conduct of the Court of Auditors concerning a review of the privatisation of Dorotheum GmbH. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 22.48 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
